:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:..:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.
Nanostray 2 - Nintendo DS

Version 1.0 (27/03/2008)

Version History:
1.0: Basic guide complete - (27/03/2008)
0.4: First four stages - (20/03/2008)

.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:..:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

Legality:
This Guide is Copyright, 2008, Matthew McIntyre

This guide may not be used on a website or in any public forum
where it is protected by copyright without the consent of the author.

To contact me: entropiclobo(at)yahoo(dot)ca or chaos(dot)wolf(at)gmail(dot)com

Websites with permission to use this Guide:
www.GameFAQS.com
www.neoseeker.com
faqs.IGN.com
www.1up.com
www.honestgamer.com
gamesradar.com
cheatplanet.com

Game by Shin'en

******************************************************************************
*                            Table of Contents                               *
******************************************************************************

*To jump to a section, hold the Control Key and press F, then type in the
section number as it appears (ie type NS1)

NS1: Intro
NS2: Gameplay
NS3: Weapons and Items
NS4: Stages
     NS4.1: Teppeki Dock
     NS4.2: Keikan Outpost
     NS4.3: Naizoh Habitat
     NS4.4: Shinkai Bay
     NS4.5: Daitoshi Station
     NS4.6: Kigan Belt
     NS4.7: Kohai City
     NS4.8: Himuro Base
NS5: Bosses
     NS5.1: Teppeki Dock
     NS5.2: Keikan Outpost
     NS5.3: Naizoh Habitat
     NS5.4: Shinkai Bay
     NS5.5: Daitoshi Station
     NS5.6: Kigan Belt
     NS5.7: Kohai City
     NS5.8: Himuro Base
NS6: Challenge Mode
     NS6.A: Challenge Set A
     NS6.B: Challenge Set B
     NS6.C: Challenge Set C
     NS6.D: Challenge Set D
NS7: Simulators
NS8: Unlockables
NS9: Credits

Nanostray 2 is rated A for "Awesome Crab Boss," it contains scenes of massive
maggots and tumultuous turrets. Player discretion is advised.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                                NS1: Intro                                  |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Marvellous! Well met my friend. What call for excitement is there? Lo, it is
the release of a competent shmup on the DS.

Nanostray 2 is a surprising game. While Nanostray was a good game in its own
right, Nanostray 2 takes steps to innovate the design, to tweak the system.
Here I had thought that developers didn't have the stones to do this anymore.
While you get a similar experience to the first game, it is different enough to
make it a worthwhile sequel.

Beyond that, it's a quality game. It's an easier game than a lot of intensive
shmupers will be used to, however it is at least accessible to a wider array of
people here. And to those of us who do play shmups frequently, it seems to pay
homage to old shmups and shmup themes. I can't say for sure that's what they
were going for, but it definitely gives that impression.

Moreover, I am happy that a game like this got released on the Nintendo DS,
which is in definite need of more games like this. This doesn't have the
benefit of a longtime fanbase of something like Contra 4, but that's all the
more reason to support Nanostray 2.

Because we need more games like this.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                               NS2: Gameplay                                |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Nanostray has three control sets.

Control Set A:
-Classic-

Control Pad: Movement
A: Primary Attack
B: Secondary Attack
L and R: Satellite Position
Start: Pause

Control Set B:
-Right-Handed Touch-

Slide Touch Screen: Movement
Control Pad: Primary Attack
L: Secondary Attack
Tap Touch Screen: Satellite Position
Start: Pause

Control Set C:
Slide Touch Screen: Movement
A: Primary Attack
B: Secondary Attack
Tap Touch Screen or L/R: Satellite Position
Start: Pause

The touchscreen controls may or may not be your cup of tea. You will need to
practice and to hold your hand in a way that it _won't_ obscure the screen.
This is the biggest issue with touch control, though it -is- surprisingly
responsive. Give it a shot and it may turn out useful when you have to do
dodging challenges and the ilk, if not in the main game.

But as you can see, the controls are very simple. I kind of wish you could
customize them because I prefer Y and B over A and B, but c'est la vie. I am
content with the fact that controls are the controls of a shmup, ha...

Before each stage you have the opportunity to pick a subweapon. These will
prove invaluable so pick wisely. You can also edit the position of your
satellites from here. By selecting one of the satellite boxces, you can use
L and R to move them within here. You can make, for instance, your backwise
satellites tighter or more spread, and so on and so forth. This is an excellent
feature and I urge you to experiment with it.

There is a nanogauge now too, which counts down the time between enemies
destroyed. The more enemies you can destroy without running the gauge down, the
better it is for your score.

Each level has a sub boss and a boss. You must fly from one end of the stage to
the next, and defeat these bosses. There are eight levels in total. Unlike the
typical arcade shooter, you have  achoice of order to do some levels in. Stages
2, 3, and 4, as well as 5, 6, and 7 are two sets that you may make your choice.

In the end, it doesn't matter what order you do them in, but if you do the
easier levels - or those _you_ have an easier time with - last it may at least
keep you fresh.

When the eight level is conquered, you can watch the ending - though there is
still plenty to do in the other modes.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                            NS3: Weapons and Items                          |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Nanostray 2 differs from the first game in that you can only select a secondary
weapon an dnot a primary. This may seem like a letdown at first but it's no big
deal. Since you pick your secondary before the stage this time around, you
don't want to get stuck with a poor primary for the situation. A standardized
primary thus helps.

The lack of a Side gun was distressing at first, there are some situations that
it would come in very handy. However, this is solved partially by satellites.
They are weaker, but in some ways more versatile.

                                 ---Items---

When you destroy an enemy or enemy wave, an item may be released.

Yellow Coin: Released en masse by large enemies, collect for points.

Blue Coin: Released after a wave has been downed. They will slightly refill
           your secondary weapon's power meter.

1-Up: Released after a wave has been downed and you have 1 life left.

Satellite: The first two waves you destroy will release these glowing orbs.
           Each one provides one Satellite.

                               ---Weapons---

*Satellites:
 ----------

Satellites are the "options" of Nanostray 2 and are extremely useful. They not
only increase the rate of fire, but two satellites firing also increases the
volume. They allow you to hit larger targets with more concentrated fire or
conversely - multiple smaller targets.

The versatility comes from being able to change their position around the ship.

o       o      o
  >     >    >
o       o      o

 1      2     3

You have three stored positions. The default positions are tight in the front,
straight up and down, and loose in the back. You can change these in the weapon
select mode. Select the box showing position and manipulate it with L and R so
that you have three optimal positions.

You can change direction while firing, so remember which direction L and R or
whatever you're using provides, so that you can switch on the fly.

*Pulse:
 -----
Power: Low
Usage:

Pulse has a long range and low usage, but its power leaves much to be desired
for larger targets. While a concentrated beam may be useful for a boss or
miniboss, it might not be enough to fend off larger enemies before they fly
away.

That's fine, however, as Pulse is more useful for groups of small enemies. You
can sweep the screen with pulse and so it is useful for taking out some waves
before they draw near.

It uses less power than Raydion, but is only truly useful for crowd control at
a distance.

*Seeker:
 ------
Power: High
Usage: 25%

Seeker was easily the best choice in nanostray (imo of course) and it's still a
force to be reckoned with here. Seeker fires two bolts of energy that home in
on a target. The destructive power is immense, and it can take out most large
targets with a single attack.

The problem arises whehn there is more than one target onscreen. You will need
to be relatively close to the target or at the very least have only one
onscreen so that it does not strike a smaller target by mistake.

It does immense damage, and it seems like a fire and forget weapon. It isn't,
Seeker is deadly in experienced hands but you have to take care with it to use
it properly.

*Raydion:
 -------
Power: Low
Usage:

Raydion is an awesome crowd control weapon though it very rapidly drains your
power reserves. It surrounds your ship in an electrical field, which damages
any enemy that comes in contact with it. For smaller ships, this means death.

When your SHN fighter is surrounded with Raydion, you can use yourself as a ram
of sorts. Fly through small ships to rapidly destroy them. If only a few are
coming near you, simply tap the button and a brief surge of electricity should
down them.

The downside is against large targets, which will require a fair bit of juice
to down. Keep this in mind. You may take out one large ship, but you won't take
out the fleet. Also, getting really close to some bosses isn't always the most
atractive option.

*Ion Strike:
 ----------
Power: High
Usage:

Ion Strike might just have the greatest destructive potential. Hold the button
to send it out, and release to explode. The explosion is very powerful, and can
hit multiple targets. It can also travel through surfaces.

This, of course, is the advantage over Seeker besides the lower power usage. If
you can master Ion Strike, it is a deadly tool indeed.

Of course, it travels only on one plane and you need to direct it personally.
This is the downside. If you have to direct this device for any length of time,
then your attention maybe should have been elsewhere. You don't want to be
downed because you weren't concentrating on more than your target.

That's a paramount skill if you are using Ion Strike - to be able to consider
the whole screen while being accurate with your strike.

*Shock Mines:
 -----------
Power:
Usage:

Shock Mines are mines launched directly ahead of your ship that do reasonable
damage. They explode in the vicinity of an enemy.

Shock Mines are most udeful in levels you are familiar with, you can release
one when you know something is coming, so that it is either destroyed or so
suficiently damaged that your primary weapon will down it soon anyways.

The splash damage is not tremendous on shock mines, and you probably won't
take out a full wave with a single mine.

*Spin:
 ----
Power:
Usage:

The spin gun shoots a purple bolt that will dance between enemies - briefly.
For larger enemies, it will typically stay on top of it until it is totally
destroyed.

This sounds like it could be useful, though the bolt will typically destroy
only a few enemies before exhausting its power, and to take out a larger target
it probably -will- deplete its entire supply.

I'd say pick another subweapon unless you _know_ this one is going to help.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                                NS4: Stages                                 |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This walkthrough is for helping people through the game, and applies for Normal
difficulty. It -won't- help you get the bests core. That's a competitive area,
my friend, and it only matters if you do it yourself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NS4.1: Teppeki Dock
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Horizontal

When the level begins, stay near the bottom. When the small ships appear, head
up while firing at them. The junk here can be destroyed, but right now it is
more important to snag a satellite.

Be prepared for the next wave at the top, grab your next satellite then weave
down between the refuse - destroy it if possible - and meet the wave heading
down and left. Stay central as the enxt wave appears from the background, and
shoot them as they appear.

A large ship will appear below you. There will be three in total in this area.
Rather than using your secondary weapon on this ship, get right in front of it
and blast away with your primary - pulling back when it gets closer. Take out
the next two the same way, taking the time of course to destroy the waves that
appear. You might have to use a secondary ont he third if you really want to
blow it up.

Either way, you will arrive at a door. Shoot the red core on the door but
don't get too close to it. A wave will arrive from the background so you will
want to shoot them while you shoot the door.

Stay near the door and switch your satellites to an upwards angle, so as to
take out the two turrets here. Stay back though, as two waves appear from the
background, and a third from the pit in front of you.

When they are thus dispatched, there are large pipes blowing gas here. Wait and
destroy the wave that appears just past it. Fly past the gas when it stops
blowing, be quick. Stay near the gas until you destroy the next wave, however.
It's probably best to switch to an upwards shot.

Keep firing forward as you enter the tunnel. The wave from above will be firing
all the while. When you get down to the two pipes whose streams criss-cross,
move past the vertical stream. Take out the next wave, and blast open the door
via its red core.

                       ********Miniboss: Genken********

The miniboss is running along the floor when you come up upon it. Basically you
have to stay near the same level it is toward the left side of the screen. The
miniboss will fire streams of green bullets, and provided you're on Normal
Mode, a red shot.

This red shot can bounce off of walls. Essentially, it's best to stay just
above Genken when its on the ground and just below when its on the ceiling.
Your satellite should get most of the shots in. The red shot will be charged
before fired, so you can get a premptive evade in - it will bounce to the left,
fly away from Genken and towards it when the shot hits the wall.

The green shots come more or less in straight lines - they should be cake to
avoid. Just don't get near it because when it changes between floor and ceiling
that could mean death.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

After the miniboss, there will be a few slow-moving waves. Make sure you get
them all to recharge your special meter if you used a secondary in that fight.
Big ships are in the background, and one will fly into the lower part of the
playing field. Strike it down, potentially with a secondary weapon, if you can,
otherwise wait for it to fire before moving forward.

Waves will appear from the bottom right, mid left, and top right. To get them
all you will need to pick an upwards/downwards satellite position. Afterwards,
large spinning enemies will appear. You will probably need a secondary weapon
to take them down. Unless you want the points, it may be more economical to
dodge their shots and focus on the waves that come with them.

Switch to a more backwards shot at this point. Yellow ships travel vertically
on the left and right of the screen. This way you can hit them on either side.
This continues with the spinning enemies again, you may want to strike them
down with a secondary so things don't get too hairy. You'll enter a vertical
tunnel.

This tunnel down is lined with turrets. Switch between front and back shots as
you descend. When you approach a "T" shaped structure, fly around it. It is an
obstacle. When you see the vertically arranged ships, switch to a frontal gun
and strike those fools down.

As you leave the tunnel, a wave approaches from behind. There's a few more to
the front afterwards, so switch back to a frontal shot.

Now, your SHN-Fighter starts to travel up again. You will see somne lasers
firing and stopping, firing and stopping. When the bottom array of lasers
stops, fly beneath the top array of lasers. When that top array of lasers
stops, fly up and shoot the turrent.

As you approach the smashing walls, stick to an upwards shot and destroy the
wave that appears. Switch to forward and destroy the turret. Switch to forward
for the next wave, then reverse for the turret. Switch to forward for the wave
at the top, then reverse for the second one.

                         ********Boss: Shokkoh********

Ah, a robot with lasers. You need to hit Shokkoh in the orb on the bottom of
its body.

Shokkoh starts by raising his arm. Now is the time to let loose with your
secondary weapons on his orb. His hand will fire lasers, one from each finger,
but you don't have to worry about that until he brings his hand down. At this
point, stay back and dodge the lasers. The lower left corner is tight but does
work well for this if you want to continue to get shots.

Keep on firing at this orb. His arm will sprt a laser. Fly up next to his
wires in his head and the laser will thus miss you. Make small movements closer
so as not to hit the head but also so as not to be crushed by the arm.

Shokkoh will next open his arms into a > shape. Stay between them, near the
green. It fires many shots out of this array. When he moves forward, move with
him. When he moves back, let him shoot one volley, then move out of his array
and into the lower left. Dodge the next volley of shots as they come, but
Shokkoh will crush his arms closed so don't go between them.

It then switches it back up. Just learn to dodge the attacks properly and this
will become second nature. And look on the bright side - it's more complex than
some of the next few bosses.

Want to score a lot of damage with your main gun? As long as you have a tight
stream on your satellites, getting right next to the orb will very quickly
increase the damage. This is best done when the laser finger arm is raising,
get away when it starts to lower.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NS4.2: Keikan Outpost
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Vertical

Haul back to the bottom of the screen and take out the two waves that appear.
The large ship that arrives releases multiple lasers and leaves. Take him out
with a secondary if you so desire, but getting your satellites now is very
important.

Stay in the moddle of the screen now as more waves arrive. You could pick one
of the big ships that arrive on the side and down it, but it's not ultimately
important. The next big ship comes straight up the middle, however, so if you
can't take one out quickly, dodge to the side. Take out the remaining waves to
refill your secondary if you had to use it.

As you enter the structure, there will be large structures moving back and
forth. Retreat to the bottom of the screen and fire upon them until they are
destroyed utterly. After their chamber there are some flamethrowers. Move past
them after they fire and _when_ there is enough space at the top of the screen
for your SHN-Fighter.

After the flames, there will be some more mobile blockades. After these,
switch to a sideways satellite position and take out the turrets on the right
and waves on the left. Switch to a forward shot as you go around the corner
with the waves on the right.

Switch back to a forward spread and destroy the turret from below and the
wave on the right. Switch back to side for the wave, if you must, but back to
front for the blockades just ahead. As these blockades travel down at you, do
not shy away from blasting the last one in your way with a secondary if you
have to.

When you're out of there, take out the waves but pay mind to the large ship.
Dodge to the side if it gets the drop on you. Refill your secondary weapon on
the multiple blue coins here.

Keep a forward shot for the following blockades, and hit the turret with one of
your side streams. Destroy the waves coming from above and before the fire at
the bottom of the next wall can blow again, sneak onto the lefthand side. Shoot
the turrets here with a side shot.

I'd take the right on the next one normally, there's only one large ship here.
If not, you have to pass some flamethrowers and waves, stay back until there's
enough room for you on top, charge forward when they stop blowing, and stick to
the far left.

Pass teh next few flamethrowers as you just did. There will be some turrets on
the lower wall, strike these down with the side cannon, but quickly change back
to a forward shot to compensate for the waves that arrive here.

                       ********Miniboss: Senten********

As the miniboss approaches, get in past his outer rim. Those black bars, by the
way, will not destroy you. You can move all around the centre, important.

Senten's core will spin. It has four guns that will fire as it spins. Move
around the centre firing upon it while staying between the streams. Of course,
change your satellite position as you go around.

   .---.
 .'  B  '.    -When you are at the top, switch to a back shot.
'         '
'S       S'   -At the sides, switch to a side shot.
'         '
 '.  F  .'    -And of course, a forward shot at the bottom.
   '---'

When he stops firing the streams, get to 12 or 6 o'clock around him and get
ready to dodge the shots from his outer rim cannons. There will be a little pie
wedge that you can stay in that will move a bit. Stay here and concentrate on
avoiding him until he starts his normal streams again.

If you want to rack up serious damage with the primary weapon, switch to a
forward shot and rest your satellites on top of its core. Fire away. Never let
a gun in front of you, however, and if the outer rim cannons line up with you
get out of the way right away.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

There will be multiple waves now - take this as an opportunity to refill your
special meter. The big ships arrive once more. Middle, sides, middle. When the
waves come two by two, you will need to line up with at least one of them and
use forward satellites to get both.

Soon, you will enter a metal tunnel. After the first orange blocks there will
be a wave or two, take them out but pay attention to the invincible spinning
turrets.

When it stops, pass it. Pick a side for the pait above. Stay between the guns
on the turret proper until you are on their side. Let them stop, then pass to
the north.

Stay to the protected sides of the orange blocks for the next turret. Slip back
in line after the block and fire at the turrets here. Switch to a side cannon
now. As the cannons appear on the upper side of blocks, hit them with the side
cannon. When they appear on the bottom, you can try the side, but taking out
_one_ with the spread of a forward shot may be the best way. Either way, shift
your fighter's position in line with the openings whenever you come to them.

When it speeds up, you are leaving the wall turrets section. Stay at the back
and fire like crazy at the blockades that approach. If you have to, use the
orange blocks here as a shield as you take out only one side of them. It
shouldn't be a huge issue though.

                         ********Boss: Tessemi********

Tessemi crawls along the wall at the top of the screen. It's much more simple
than Shokkoh, but keep an eye out.

As it walks up and down, it fires many streams of bullets. It only shoots red
bullets when it moves forward. The first burst usually has a stream that goes
straight down the middle, so be sure to be to the side when it starts down at
you.

Otherwise, stay near the bottom and continually fire while making little shifts
in position to dodge the green bullets slowly coming towards you.

A little over halfway destroyed, it will begin to launch large green orbs at
your ship. Stay still, then move when they appear. They move briefly, note
your position, then fly at you. Work your way from one side of the screen to
the other. Please beware when Tessemi goes down again, he will probably still
do red shots.

It does alternate back to green shots, so just keep up your pattern and it
should fall.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NS4.3: Naizoh Habitat
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Horizontal

There will be many blue cell enemies flying onscreen from the righthand side.
Now, if you have Raydion, just give it a short burst whenever they get close.
Otherwise, keep firing and dodging to the best of your ability, but stay near
the bottom of the screen. There will be a wave of red cells down here. Destroy
them for your first satellite. Get up a bit and destoy another wave for your
second.

Continually shoot these waves as they arrive, but after the cells, there will
be giant maggots. These maggots don't pose much of a threat, however they are
large and take up much of the screen. Either fire on them with the primary and
dodge them when you have to or shoot them once witht he secondary.

Anyways, the first maggot goes across the top, not too important. The second
one goes from top to bottom, so it's a fair target. As the third arrives, you
will have to contend with a ground crawler. these malformed husks crawl along
the ground firing at your SHN-Fighter. Pump them full of lead though be sure to
take out some waves as well. The third maggot goes to the right.

As the fourth maggot arrives, a tusk will jutt out on the right side of the
screen from the crater mark here. Stay back and fire on it, this will also take
out the rolling enemy en route. A maggot will be travelling right, duck beneath
it.

Stay back and fire at the maggots going up and down in the pit just ahead.
Destroy the waves of red cells but watch out for the crater here - it has a
tusk. Stay back as you destroy the turrets, crawler, and tusks. At the end,
there is a maggot so use your secondary. If you sneak past it, go up as there
is a tusk on the bottom path - so you will likely be going up either way.

There is an acid thrower at the bottom anyways, throwing jets of acid into
the air. Instead, take the top path and destroy the top tusk after the acid
jet. Once it is destroyed, switch to an up and down formation and destroy the
turret on the ground. Switch back to a forward shot and take out the next
tusks before the next acid geyser. Wait for the geyser to spit acid, then sneak
on past.

There will be large bone circles coming up. There is a gap in this circle, go
inside of it. Stay near the top of it so the acid jet does not hit it. Use a
forward shot for the first wave, then a backshot for the next two waves. Whever
the bone circles open right, slip through to the next circle. The next wave,
after the red structure, is a forward issue and the one following is for the
backshot.

As you head up, use an up and down shot for the two waves, the switch to a
forward shot as you realign to go right. You will be assaulted from all sides
by blue cells. Rapidly fire and rapidly switch between formations to keep them
at bay. Raydion is extremely useful here.

When you arrive at a tunnel, stay near the right of the screen, as the tusk
doors close.

                       ********Miniboss: Hishin********

Hishin walks forward. It spurts energy from the top and will now and then
launch a rolling, bouncing enemy. Basically, the energy balls are "lobbed,"
that is, they ar esubject to gravity and travel in a parabola. 

As such, you can stay near Hishin and move back when it is on the ground,
but when the screen shifts so it is on the top of the screen - get the hell
away from it. Stay near the bottom and dodge the energy balls as they fall
down.

As for the bouncing rolling enemies, they make a distinct sound when they
are lobbed. NEVER let Hishin close you in or else they will hit you with
their shots OR themselves. Staying a distance here makes the fight longer
but at least spares you some regrettable deaths.

So pump it full of whatever you've got as it is fara way. When it moves forward
switch to an up and down formation, then backwards and hit it as you pass it.

Careful evasion is the name of the game here, and definitely use your secondary
weapon to speed it up.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

Keep a forward shot trained as you head right again. Destroy the waves, but
adjust your position so you first take out the turret, and then the crawler.
Stay near the back as you approach the large metal urchins. When they blow up
they launch shots, so you will want room to dodge.

You soon arrive at a wall, select an up and down shot here. Fire at the wave
coming in fromt he small opening, but also the urchin and tusk above you. After
the first two tusks, switch to a backshot and take out the next wave. Then
switch back to an up and down shot. Train your shots on that big urchin, but
switch position to meet those waves from the back when necessary.

Switch to a backshot when the screens tarts to move right again. Take out the
wave, the switch to a forward shot for the tusks and crawlers. Use a secondary
shot on one if necessary but don't go crazy as the boss is just ahead.

                       ********Boss: Mushikera********

Mushikera is pretty simplistic, though it may take you by surprise unless you
pay attention. The weak spot is the eye in the middle of the wall.

Mushikera will launch white orbs that expplode into a radially burst of shots
when hit. The best thing to do is explode them at a distance so the shots are
extremely thin when they get to you - easy to dodge then.

When mushikera closes its eye, stay where you are until it opens it. It
launches a wave of blue cells forward. If your secondary can't deal with them,
dodge to the bottom of the screen. You need to stay in line with the eye until
it starts firing, otherwise Mushikera seems to shoot a wider berth of shots.

Basically, you have to pound it in the eye from the back of the screen until
it is destroyed. The pattern is easy, though it can get hairy at times.
Concentrate on evasion and it will eventually fall.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NS4.4: Shinkai Bay
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Vertical

Stay near the lower right and start hitting the waves as soon as they appear.
Destroy these two lines and if the laser ships arrive, dodge and grab your two
satellites. Three of these laser ships will arrive. They aim at your SHN
fighter and launch some lasers. Make them aim, dodge, and return fire.

Another set of waves like at the start will appear now. Great if you missed out
on one of the satellites. A big yellow ship will arrive here, it shoots a
spread shot forward. You can concentrate fire on this guy while staying at the
bottom to dodge shots, or quickly down him with a secondary.

After a few more waves, there will be three more laser ships. You have two
satellites now so destroy them as they arrive and before they can fire. Get to
the centre of the screen for the next wave, and you can stay here for the next
three after this and before the turret.

These turrets fire a wave of shots as they swivel to and fro. Keep a forward
shot trained, and take it out. There is a laser turret on the left, but take
out the wave from the right and the spread turret from above.

Keep a forward shot trained on the waves as the screen starts to turn. Switch
to a side shot and take out the turret and waves. When you see some blocks in
the way, switch back to a forward shot and take it out. If you can do it quick
enough, switch to a side shot and take out the laser cannon.

Go left and there's some blocks ahead of you. Take them out with the forward
shot. Keep firing as more block barriers show up. Stay forward.

There will be robots here that aim and fire a few shots. Either hit them
rapidly or use a secondary. THough that may be best used at the large yellow
ship just past the robots.

Take out the wave of two ships that comes up.

                       ********Miniboss: Umihebi********

Umihebi is a mechanical sea snake that jumps out of the water and fires shots.
Do __not__ waste secondary weapons on it unless you want to take it out fast.
It is only on your plane briefly, meaning you have a small window to hit it
each time. However, this miniboss is largely non-threatening so don't fire
your secondary all helter skelter.

When it jumps out of the water, fire at its head, then dodge to the side. The
snake shoots stremas of red shots, and a starburst of green shots. Dodge the
reds left and right, then stay between the green streams. Stay at the bottom
of the screen and there WILL be enough room to dodge the reds again.

You can stay at the bottom of the screen dodging left and right and get enough
shots in to destroy it quickly. Otherwise, you can move everywhere giving
yourself a wide berth and hit it only a few times during each repetition.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

After the two laser ships, take the right path on the split. Switch to a side
shot and destroy one of the blockade blocks coming up while destroying the wave
to the right.

Stay behind the wall as you head north. a turret rakes around in a circle with
a large purple laser. stay behind the wall until it finishes. Take the
righthand path up and destroy the ships on the left with a sideshot. Switch to
a forward shot for the next bunch waves.

Just after the next blockade, there will be another large laser cannon. Let it
start around and head to the right of it. Take a side position for your
satellites and destroy teh first wave. As youd estroy the second wave, move
up between those closing walls.

Keep an eye on the laser turrets, but switch to a forward shot and destroy the
swivel turret. Start to destroy the long wave fromt he north and move up and
in before the doors close, as you are destroying the wave.

You again come up to some laser turrets. Switch to a side cannon and take out
the first one on a wall shooting horizontally and the one shooting vertically.
Try to destroy the third but don't worry too much about it, make it through the
door above all else.

With the moving laser turrets, destroy one then focus on the wave, move through
the door. In here, stay between the streams of fire and whip through the door
as soon as possible.

Destroy the laser ship, dodge the turret, and you will be at a blockade again.
Fire on it straight ahead. Keep firing at them but if they get too close blast
them with a secondary.

Switch to a sideshot as you emerge and take out the turret and waves. switch to
a forward shot for the three laser turrets along the wall. Keep it up...

                       ********Boss: Ishigani********

This awesome cool crab is making rap gestures with its claws. It's a shame to
destroy this beacon of rad, but alas... that is the tragedy of Nanostray 2.

Ishigani lets out a wave of red shots. Stay at the bottom of the screen and
head away from the crab when he starts to fire. When the shots come close, fly
between them. You may have to pass through two or three streams, but it's no
problem if you give him a wide enough berth.

When Ishigani stops firing rd shots, he will fire awesome golden lasers. These
lasers bend towards your SHN-fighter and fly forward quickly. Stay near the
bottom until the lasers bend then dodge away from them.

If you keep firing all the while, Ishigani quickly falls. Though its attacks
are constant, it is a large target and thus quickly destroyed. Its whole body
is vulnerable, after all.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           NS4.5: Daitoshi Station
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Vertical

Start on the left and destroy the waves as they pop up. once this wave is
destroyed, head over and destroy the next one. Collect both satellite power ups
and destroy the next few waves, even switch to a side shot if you have to.

Eventually, some larger ships will appear. These open their cannons and fire a
spray of shots. They have a lot of endurance so you may want to use a secondary
on them. HOWEVER, there are many so that soon gets expensive. Start shooting
near them and move back.

The ships that look like this:
  _____
 /     \
|       |
|   _   |
\  ( )  /
 \ | | /
  \| |/
   \ /

WIll fire a screen-length laser out. So gte out of their way when they get to
the top. Dodge to the side and continue to pound them until they drop. After
these laser ships, there will be a large missile ship. Stay back for this guy
and use a secondary if you _must- but it's not necessary. Keep the shots up and
dodge as the missiles fly toward you.

There will be another missile ship after a few more waves of enemies. Again,
stay near the back of the screen and you should be able to down it. A large
structure will arrive.

Keep a forward shot trained and stay near the left. Use its side spray (the
side spray of the forward shot) to hit the two laser turrets ont he right hand
side. Then begint o follow the path inward. Switch to a side shot and take out
the turrets on the right then left. Simply pass them if you can't destroy them
warly.

You want to destroy the next guy asap as a large bullet spray ship will arrive
shortly. Destroy it then focus on the big ship. Keep your shots forward and
destroy the next few laser turrets. The forward mode will also allow you to
take care of the approaching waves as well.

Laser ships will arrive again, dodge their lasers, and focus ont he bullet
sprayer that appears next. Get the waves as per usual.

Keep your shots forward. Destroy the laser turret that appears on the left of
the screen, then stay near the back of the screen - the two bullet sprayers
should fall to you if you take them on from back here. As you enter the narrow
passage, a missile ship will appear. Keep firing, but stay near the left wall
so you can more easily dodge the missile. There will be quite a few waves now
before the miniboss, so refill your secondary.

                        ********Miniboss: Tembi********

Tembi is a humanoid robot. He has two main attacks - a green wave of shots and
large energy balls. The balls of energy start slow then slope towards your ship
and the green waves come in three waves of many bullets. Tembi will use the
energy balls from two positions on the screen, then the green waves, then the
balls, and so on.

When Tembi uses the energy balls, get on the other side of the screen and fire
at tembi. Move out of the way as the balls fly before you. So stop, dodge,
stop, dodge, stop, dodge for each burst of three.

For the green waves, stay at the other side of the screen, NOT in line with
Tembi. Go between the bullets as they spread out, and as I said do not stay in
line with Tembi - in case he flies toward you next.

Throughout the fight, just keep dodging and firing. Adjust your satellites so
that you are always aimed at Tembi.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

Four waves will approach now. Use a forward shot for the first two, and a side
shot for the remaining. Switch back to a forward shot and destroy the laser
turret that appears on the righthand structure.

As you enter the passage, start shooting yellow blocks and stay near the left.
Do not worry about laser cannons, simply dodge the lasers and focus on the
blocks. Keep firing on them and use a secondary if they get too too close.

There will be laser ships appearing on either side of the screen now. Fly up
next to them and shoot them down. Stay in the space they leave behind to avoid
the lasers of the others. But do NOT use the topmost laser ship - waves will
arrive between the two instances of laser ships here.

There will be numerous waves now, clean up so your secondary is full for the
boss.

                        ********Boss: Ginyoku********

Ginyoku is a large, spinning boss. You will need to stay between its blades for
much of the battle. Ginyoku alternates between two main attacks - a raking
laser and a spread of bullets.

When Ginyoku turns its blades on its sides, it is going to fire bullets. They
kind of go like this:
     /\
     || X     While Ginyoku's spread isn't quite this wide, it does show the
     || X     side from which bullets are spread out (X).
    (  )
X  // X\\
X //  X \\
 \/      \/

When Ginyoku spins clockwise while firing a spread, stay up near the top of the
blade oppiste the bullets' point of egress. When the boss spins counter
clockwise, stay near the main body of Ginyoku and beneath the point of egress
if possible.

When Ginyoku has finished a spread it next goes to a laser rake. A laser will
emerge from its body and rake across the screen. You need to get between the
blade and the laser.

Ginyoku's arm/
------------/
'-._
'-._'-._ ( )  <-You
    '-._'-._
        '-._  Laser

Move along with Ginyoku as it spins around. I find the most mobile area of the
screen is the righthand side. Stay here if possible.

As you dodge Ginyoku, continually adjust your satellites so that you are always
aiming at it. Go up next to her when you are beneath. Fire like crazy with your
satellites on the main body of it. And of course, pour your secondary weapons
intot he fight.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              NS4.6: Kigan Belt
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Vertical

Stay near the bottom of the screen and fire ont he asteroids as they approach.
Staying bottom centre is mostly safe, but dodge if you really must.

When you enter the tunnel, stay to the left and fire on the wave here. A laser
ship appears in the centre and fires multiple small lasers - nevermind it
unless you -want- to use some secondary juice, and grab the satellite power up.
Destroy the wave on the right to get your second and then take out the laser
turrets on the upper right wall.

As you enter a portion of the tunnel clogged with meteors, fire on the right
then left initially to destroy the turrets. Once they are gone, concentrate on
the rest of the meteors. Just take out the laser ships and waves as you leave
the tunnel.

You will now be flying between ships. Stick to the left if you want some waves.
The first two ships, stay between them, even as they fire on you. Dodge their
bursts. If a ship gets too close you - fire with primary and secondary alike.

There will be a few waves and laser ships, then the final ship to the right.
You don't need to take this out, but do so if you must. Use a side shot for the
multiple waves that are coming from above of three ships each. Get in front of
one group and the side shot will take care of the rest.

As you keep this up, there will eventually arrive asteroids which have turrets
to fire upon you. My preferred method here is to fire on them as they appear
with the forward shot and switch to a side shot to get any waves of ships that
slip by while you are doing this.

As you approach the tunnel, stay near the back. The level speeds up and the
meteors here move quickly and bounce off of the walls. Try to stay near the
centre of the tunnel and dodge if any meteor gets through. You want to keep a
forward shot here, concentrated fire is the key to survival.

Eventually you will come upon a wall of meteors. Shoot your way through. There
are some mines upahead. Fly near them, then head back to the bottom of the
screen. They will explode, so dodge the spread of shots while firing on the
waves of enemies that appear. The reason for blowing them up yourself is so you
have time to deal with them. You will only fly through the centre, so provoke
mostly the central mines. You will soon leave the tunnel to face the miniboss.

                       ********Miniboss: Hanrin********

Hanrin is a fairly easy miniboss. It attacks frequently, however they are very
easy to avoid. Hanrin starts by tracking your position and launching lasers
straight down. Small lasers. It will then open up and shoot raking lasers while
wiggling back and forth.

Hanrin's weakspot is its core. When it is moving to line up with you, fire
straight up into its core. Stay near the middle of the screen and fire up.
Hanrin will fire its lasers. Move just out of reach to the side before you are
hit. Keep firing. Hanrin will move so rinse and repeat, keep this up until
Hanrin starts its other attack. If Hanrin backs you into a corner, you need to
move between the lasers to escape. Don't worry, they're slow and spread enough
that this is perfectly possible.

As for Hanrin's raking attack, simply fly up next to its core and fire like
crazy. Keep your satellites on top of its core. Keep this up until it starts
to close, then start the strategy all over again.

Keep it up, Hanrin requires patience but is quickly downed even without a
secondary weapon - and I recommend you don't use one here if you can help it.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

There will be three large ships from the top now. I suggest you se the
secondary weapon to down one of them since they are a bit faster. At least
until you get used to them. Take the right path if possible and fire upon the
waves that appear. Try your side shot if any slip by.

There will be a wall of meteors coming up. Take out the waves as they appear.
They come from the bottom but are not dangerous until they fly up to your
level. Keep firing upon them and the laser ships, nothing too hairy for now.

But the asteroids appear again. If you don't want to risk the middle of the
screen, pick a side and keep it clear while you dodge shots from the other.

There will be waves and laser ships again. Start with a forward shot to take
out a wave and laser ship on each pass, then switch to a side shot when you
have to. The boss is just ahead.

                         ********Boss: Dokuga********

Dokuga is a very simple boss as well, and with a little patience you shouldn't
be touched during this battle. DOkuga starts with large spreads of red shots,
smaller spreads of green shots, then it launches mines at you..

For the red shots, stay at the bottom of the screen and dodge between them as
they come forward. Simple.

When the green shots start, make your way to the centre of the screen until the
reds disappear. The green shots dominate the sides only. FLy up about a ship
and a half's distance from Dokuga's mouth and keep firing until the mines
start.

When it fires mines, remember that theyw ill explode shortly after coming close
to you in a radial burst. It's best to stay on the opposite side of the mines
so that they don't explode. If they do, they are simplya  radial burst of shots
that are easy to avoid. Explode as few as possible.

All the while, pour your secondaries into Dokuga as much as possible. However,
do not fire the secondaries when Dokuga launches mines as they WILL block your
shots. But keep your primary going, Dokuga will soon fall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              NS4.7: Kohai City
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Horizontal

Kohai city take splace inside a sewer system. It is the most consistently
crowded city and certainly one of the more prominent for environmental features
anyway you slice it. The screen starts by scrolling down.

Stay near the top as the wave comes in from the left. They will head to the
centre then come onto the same plane as you. FIre upon them as they become
available and then grab the satellite while you can.

This part could get a little hairy. Your single satellite cannot aim DOWN, so
you have to settle for behind you. Avoid these ships as they fly up and fall
down. Stay near the openings, as high as possible unless you want to weave your
way into them and shoot them down for points. Fire witht he backshot and your
primary forward and you should get through with nary a scratch.

There will be a wave appearing near the higher gap when the screen evens out.
Fire on this wave and take the second satellite. Another wave will take the
bottom path now, but whatever path you take - switch to an up and down shot to
destroy the turret.

Stay near the ceiling away from the jumping cephalopods. Use the up and down
shot to take out the two waves in here, then forward shot for the brown crawler
at the lower right - secondary if you absolutely must as it is a tough squeeze
otherwise. Stay low and use an up and down shot to take out the eyestalk above.

If you can, use a forward shot and get high, the spread should take out the
brown crawlers on the ceiling and the eyestalk to the right. Otherwise, dodge
the bullets of the brown crawlers and concentrate fire on the eyestalk. Make
sure the cephalopod doesn't jump into you in the meantime.

Keep a forward shot as the screen moves down and clobber the two waves. Move
near the ceiling now to take out the brown crawlers and eyestalk. Meanwhile,
sewer worms are leaping about below. When you can, get in front of one and
fire with a forward shot rapidly into it and it should quickly drop.

Switch to an up and down shot as you leave this area and destroy the eyestalk.

The screen will now speed up. There will be multiple passages, one clear on
each set and the others with brown crawlers. Stay near the back of the screen
and none of it should be a problem if you keep firing, but use the secondary if
you must.

But if they fire it is very difficult to avoid the shots in tight quarters.

I will name the unoccupied tunnels. One set is a number of tunnels that line
up with each other:

Set 1: All free
Set 2: The top
Set 3: Very top, but take the bottom.
Set 4: None, but take the bottom as it is very large.
Set 5: None, singular again, just take it to the top.
Set 6: Take the very top.
Set 7: Take the top again.

At this point, there should be two floors here and the screen is moving up.

Set 8: Take the top.
Set 9: Top or bottom, either one.
Set 10: Very middle.
Set 11: Very top or bottom.
Set 12: Top
Set 13: Third tunnel from the top.
Set 14: Second from the top.

Now there should be a change in the sloping of the floors, like so:
    ----
  ----
----

Set 15: Second from the bottom.

Miniboss time.

                       ********Miniboss: Kagizume********


Kagizume will appear from those tunnels at the top of the room so beware, stay
near the bottom until you know what to do.

Kagizume starts by lobbing large coconut shaped bombs. They explode in bursts
of red bullets when shot. It's best to stay up directly next to Kagizume and
your shots should not hit the coconuts. Beware if you have Seeker, the shots
WILL head towards the coconuts.

When Kagizume has lost half of its health, there will be a changing of the
guards. Two arms will appear on either side and start firing little lasers. The
safest way to do this is to sit directly below Kagizume's main core at the
bottom of the screen and use an up and down shot until it's toast.

You just have to dodge the lasers until it drops.

Oh yeah, when Kagizume is in his little pipe between phases? He's vulnerable.
Clean up with an up and down shot or applicable secondary.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

Head down to the bottom and use a forward shot on the brown crawlers here. Fly
up again so the jumping cephalopods cannot hit you. This will be the go now as
you stay near the top. With a forward shot you will be able to hit any waves
and brown crawlers up here. Lower your altitude and fire on the eyestalk when
you get a chance.

Stay low and use your forward shot on the turrets here. They are a bigger
threat than those giant urchins, but destroy those if you get the opportunity
to. You will approach a pipe spilling water. Pass it after it has spilled its
water and continue to destroy turrets and urchins as the screen scrolls right.

Eventually youw ill find spinning sections of pipe. The protrusions here will
kill you if they touch you, so wait until they are in front or behind the pipe
and pass them before theys pin back around. There will be spilling pipes and
jumping cephalopods here as well. Stay near the ceiling above and just to the
side of the peak of the cephalopod's jump. After the water spills, pass it and
wait until you can pass the next in the same manner.

There will be another set of spinning gears now. Take the top route, when it
spins out of the way. Pass it by then switch to an up and down shot. Fire on
the turret fromt he side and the top satellite will hit the eyestalk. When you
fly up, wait here as there is a large water spilling pipe and a jumping
cephalopod.

Notice that they are relatively slower than those from before. When there is
room, wait for the pipe to spill and cephalopod to jumnp. Follow it down and
pass the large pipe before it can spew water again.

Keep a forward shot here and destroy the waves and stay near the bottom - the
worms are a bigger threat than the brown crawlers, they make the area too tight
and you can't killt he browns fast enough to also avoid the worms.

At the end, pass the ipe as you sually do. There is an eyestalk and brown
crawler above you. Use an up and down shot on the eyestalk, and switch to a
forward for the brown crawler. The path will split.

Take the left and destroyt he brown crawler with a forward cannon. When it
stops moving up and starts moving right, start firing on those urchins.

Passing the urchins, switch to a backshot for the wave here, get some juice for
your secondary weapon. Switch to a forward shot for the next two waves and get
ready for the boss.


                         ********Boss: Kingao********


Kingao is a strange face beast. It's going to be best to keep your distance
from this boss. He has two pirmary attacks - energy balls and a bullet spray.

The energy balls are kind of unpredictable. They don't necessarily fly towards
you and they don't seem to follow any easy pattern. They can fire up on a
diagonal, down on a diagonal, and straight forward. It could have to do with
the direction Kingao's face is in, but I can't really verify this. Either way,
they charge for a second before firing, so you have time between each assault.

Each energy ball seems to ALMOST reach the very back of the screen - which is
where you should be. Once they're here, they move around a bit before leaving.
Stay at the back. Dodge away from the point of impact for the balls, then move
around any remaining bals to a relatively clean section of the screen.

Kingao can also fire waves of red shots -these are a lot easier in that you
only need to stay at the back and move between the gaps in the shots.

All the while you should be firing at Kingao. His assault is tight and constant
but it is a very large target so it shouldn't take long to beat him when it
comes down to it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              NS4.8: Himuro Base
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orientation: Horizontal

Yeah! The Final Lap! Himuro Base has many enemies and at times the most complex
geometry.

The waves fromt he start are bottom, top, bottom, it may be best to get your
satellites at the bottom exclusively. It's best to stay at the back of the
screen when they start coming in fromt he background. Keep a forward shot UNTIL
there is a ship that will appear directly in line with you. THEN switch to an
up and down shot to knock it out of the sky. Switch back to a forward until you
see turrets.

These turrets are behind a wall. Switch to an up and down shot and fire upon
them. Keep this shot trained as well as you fight the waves. The waves mostly
approach at the front but you also want to be able to down those turrets in
the ceiling of the tunnel.

As you approach the end of the tunnel, switch to a forward to destroy the
turret just after it, then a backshot for the big walker. Stay about in line
with its main body and dodging down away from the shots will be cake.

As teh screen goes up, switch to an up and down satellite formation. There are
two waves to destroy here. When they are destroyed, hide under the  ledge until
the big walker falls off the ledge and destroys itself...
 ____
/    \        You will hide at (A) untilt he walker falls off and destroys
\____/        itself. At this point, you must quickly fly up in line with the
 //_          moving walls before you are crushed.
------+
      |
      |
      |
  +---+
  | (A)

As the screen starts to move right again, keep your up and down formation on.
Enter teh tunnel made of moving hydraulics. When they move up, move up, when
they move down, move down. Match their movement. What you want to do is get
past them and shoot the turret on the top and bottom but only move between the
hydraulic presses whent hey have moved themselves.

Switch to a forward shot. After the next wave you can go up or down. I usually
choose down as there is a big walker here. Just pump him full of shots from far
back and it quickly falls. Use the forward shot to get the turrets here too. If
you took the top route, you would need to shoot a turret from afar and pass the
laser when it stops firing. I find it best to shoot this turret with the
backshot after clearing the bottom.

The screen will start to move up on a diagonal now. Switch back to a forward
shot and start firing at the large icicles. The parts that will break kind of
flash when hit so keep firing on them. When you see the turret at the end,
switch to an up and down shot and take it out. Switch back to forward for the
handful of waves.

Alright, in this next spot, ice crystalizes across the screen. Keep your shots
forward and either move ahead of the trail or shoot an already established
section of trail. The spark at the end of the ice trail is where new sections
emerge so if you shoot everything behind that, it won't grow back.

Switch to an up and down shot when you start to go back inside the base. Take
the top path here so, in case you can't destroy the turret you can at least
avoid it altogether. Wait for the laser to fire, pass it by, and take out the
turret.

Take out the next ground turret sooner than later, as well. Move past the next
laser afte rit fires, then destroy the ground and ceiling turrets before the
next hydraulic lift/presses. Stay within them and move up and down with them,
match their movement.

At this point, you can go up or down, around a horizontally aligned hydraulic
press. If you go down, you get more points for a wave and an extra turret. If
you go up, it's safer. Besides, if you go down you have to go up through the
hydraulic. Do this just after it moves and before it moves again. Either way,
destroy the ground turret on top of the tall structure and continue along.

Move into here and use an up and down shot to destroy all three waves before
they can fire too much upon you. The miniboss approaches.

                       ********Miniboss: Sankyaku********


Sankyaku walks forward. The screen will continually spin here and it's the
classic shmup standby of move between the legs as it moves. Mind you, I'd much
prefer a 50 foot showgirl, but I'll take it.

HOW Sankyaku walks depends largely on the screen's orientation.

    ==       ==  ==      Essentially, this is how Sankyaku walks forward. It
    ||       ||  ||->    will always have two paired legs and one singular.
    ||       ||  ||->
  ( () )     ( () )      The trick to moving past it is to stay near the single
<-||  ||       ||        leg and you iwll eventually be between two. Then, you
<-||  ||       ||        can simply escape when the leg you were originally
  ==  ==       ==        next to moves down to the other side.

Sankyaku can use a greens pread of bullets as well, and these are more frequent
as it takes more damage. This is why you must get away fro it as soon as you
make it to the other side, so you have enough room to weave between them.

Other than that, folks, it's self-explanatory. You must hit Sankyaku in its
central core, and as you move around and past it, you must switch your
satellite position to meet it - so that you are _always_ aimed at it.

                               -=-=-Resume-=-=-

As the level evens back out, waves and large walkers will approach from the
right. These walkers, of course, fire mostly straight ahead. So stay above
their guns if they are on top and below if they are on bottom. You should be
able to destroy most of the enemies here with the forward shot.

Leaving this, you enter a space dominated by small grey ships. Switch between
all of your satellite formations and fire upon any that get close you. Try not
to let them get into any great number. When you see the icicle, however, switch
primarily to an up and down shot.

Shoot this icicle out with the up and down shot. You will need to use forward
and backshots for the turrets just after it.

Stay to the right of the fan here and fire on the turret with a forward shot.
Switch to a backshot and take the next turret out as you move between the fans.
Keep your backshot as you destroy the turret just below it and the primary
cannon hits the turret on the opposite wall. It's very much the same as you
move right and through another pair of fans.

Eventually, you come to a fan very close to the righthand wall. You need to get
in between the blades and move down. Keep your backshot on as you pass in
between the blades of the next fan. Destroy the next turret.

The hydraulic press here is on a slant. Fire on the turrets near it but move
through ut when you get the chance. Move through it just after it moves. You
won't be hesitating for the lasers up ahead either. After a laser fires, move
past it. If you can hit a turret, do so. As the screen starts to tilt back to
horizontal, you can get one with a backshot.

As it tilts back horizontal, there will be more laser gates. Switch to an up
and down shot for the next assortment of turrets. When you pass the final laser
gate, destroy the turrets then fall back again.

You can switch to a forward shot now until you reach the far wall, at which
point you should switch to an up and down shot again to deal with the waves and
turrets above you.

You will see a big walker. Take the righthand, small squeeze up and deestroy
the wall turret as the walker drops to its demise. You will see two more
walkers above you, stay beneath their platform until both fall to destruction.
Do the same as you go up for other walkers on platforms. Of course, destroy the
paired turrets as soon as you can as well. You will eventually come again to a
fan as you head up.

Get between the blades shoot the turrets as you arrive out. Try to switch to a
backshot and get up between the platforms before the waves arrive, otherwise
you will need to use an up and down shot to destroy them.

                         ********Boss: Nohkan********

Phase 1:
--------

Nohkan encapsulates another classic element of shmups - the brain boss at the
end. Thankfully, it's not as frail as some of these.

Nohkan's first phase is very simple. It will fire lasers and shots but they
come from the guns above and below the brain on its capsule. The lasers will
crisscross but before they fire there's a small, thin line to show their
position.

-----------[]=( )

The turret will firsts how a thin line.

###########[]=( )

Then the laser will burst forward.

The other thing to note is that the turrets move and their position determines
how the lasers will fire. As such, it's often best to stay at the back of the
screen in the centre because you will either not have to move at all or just
need to make a very small evasive move.

The other attack Nohkan will use is a steady set of red shot bursts. Staying
near the back will give you ample time to avoid this, but if you want to get
close as it starts this assault you can rack up some nice damage before falling
back to deal with the lasers.

Keep it up and Nohkan's chamber starts to crack. I say save any secondaries you
have for the next phase, your standard shot is more than enough for this...

Phase 2:
--------

Nohkan attacks you directly. While it assaults you, there will be many grey
ships trying to ram you as well. Now, these should be destroyed before they get
near you, there's no question about that. Nohkan will try to make things
miserable for you, however.

Essential, Nohkan flies back and forth firing a raking laser from the top of
itself. Now, there's two ways to consider this.

You can move past Nohkan as it moves toward you and switch your direction of
fire every time, and eventually it will fall. The starting direction of the
laser is hard to predict, however.

In my experience, its laser doesn't curve down too much so...

      _______
(A) .'       '.      Getting just beside or above the top part of Nohkan seems
  .'           '.    to be a safe spot.
 .               .
 '-............-'    You will be below the maximum passage of the laser.

A safe spot from Nohkan, anyways. You still have to worry about the grey ships.
So switching from an up/down shot to forward from here will let you get the
greys.

Nohkan does have a lot of stamina so no matter what you do, keep firing and
definitely pour all of your secondary shots into it. And remember, the greys
will take damage form secondaries as well - so be very careful if you have
Seekers here.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                                NS5: Bosses                                 |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Bosses organized for convnenience in this order:

NS5.1: Teppeki Dock
NS5.2: Keikan Outpost
NS5.3: Naizoh Habitat
NS5.4: Shinkai Bay
NS5.5: Daitoshi Station
NS5.6: Kigan Belt
NS5.7: Kohai City
NS5.8: Himuro Base


                            ~NS5.1: Tepekki Dock~
                             '-...............-'

                       ********Miniboss: Genken********

The miniboss is running along the floor when you come up upon it. Basically you
have to stay near the same level it is toward the left side of the screen. The
miniboss will fire streams of green bullets, and provided you're on Normal
Mode, a red shot.

This red shot can bounce off of walls. Essentially, it's best to stay just
above Genken when its on the ground and just below when its on the ceiling.
Your satellite should get most of the shots in. The red shot will be charged
before fired, so you can get a premptive evade in - it will bounce to the left,
fly away from Genken and towards it when the shot hits the wall.

The green shots come more or less in straight lines - they should be cake to
avoid. Just don't get near it because when it changes between floor and ceiling
that could mean death.

                         ********Boss: Shokkoh********

Ah, a robot with lasers. You need to hit Shokkoh in the orb on the bottom of
its body.

Shokkoh starts by raising his arm. Now is the time to let loose with your
secondary weapons on his orb. His hand will fire lasers, one from each finger,
but you don't have to worry about that until he brings his hand down. At this
point, stay back and dodge the lasers. The lower left corner is tight but does
work well for this if you want to continue to get shots.

Keep on firing at this orb. His arm will sprt a laser. Fly up next to his
wires in his head and the laser will thus miss you. Make small movements closer
so as not to hit the head but also so as not to be crushed by the arm.

Shokkoh will next open his arms into a > shape. Stay between them, near the
green. It fires many shots out of this array. When he moves forward, move with
him. When he moves back, let him shoot one volley, then move out of his array
and into the lower left. Dodge the next volley of shots as they come, but
Shokkoh will crush his arms closed so don't go between them.

It then switches it back up. Just learn to dodge the attacks properly and this
will become second nature. And look on the bright side - it's more complex than
some of the next few bosses.

Want to score a lot of damage with your main gun? As long as you have a tight
stream on your satellites, getting right next to the orb will very quickly
increase the damage. This is best done when the laser finger arm is raising,
get away when it starts to lower.



                            ~NS5.2: Keikan Outpost~
                             '-.................-'


                       ********Miniboss: Senten********

As the miniboss approaches, get in past his outer rim. Those black bars, by the
way, will not destroy you. You can move all around the centre, important.

Senten's core will spin. It has four guns that will fire as it spins. Move
around the centre firing upon it while staying between the streams. Of course,
change your satellite position as you go around.

   .---.
 .'  B  '.    -When you are at the top, switch to a back shot.
'         '
'S       S'   -At the sides, switch to a side shot.
'         '
 '.  F  .'    -And of course, a forward shot at the bottom.
   '---'

When he stops firing the streams, get to 12 or 6 o'clock around him and get
ready to dodge the shots from his outer rim cannons. There will be a little pie
wedge that you can stay in that will move a bit. Stay here and concentrate on
avoiding him until he starts his normal streams again.

If you want to rack up serious damage with the primary weapon, switch to a
forward shot and rest your satellites on top of its core. Fire away. Never let
a gun in front of you, however, and if the outer rim cannons line up with you
get out of the way right away.

                         ********Boss: Tessemi********

Tessemi crawls along the wall at the top of the screen. It's much more simple
than Shokkoh, but keep an eye out.

As it walks up and down, it fires many streams of bullets. It only shoots red
bullets when it moves forward. The first burst usually has a stream that goes
straight down the middle, so be sure to be to the side when it starts down at
you.

Otherwise, stay near the bottom and continually fire while making little shifts
in position to dodge the green bullets slowly coming towards you.

A little over halfway destroyed, it will begin to launch large green orbs at
your ship. Stay still, then move when they appear. They move briefly, note
your position, then fly at you. Work your way from one side of the screen to
the other. Please beware when Tessemi goes down again, he will probably still
do red shots.

It does alternate back to green shots, so just keep up your pattern and it
should fall.



                           ~NS5.3: Naizoh Habitat~
                           '-..................-'


                       ********Miniboss: Hishin********

Hishin walks forward. It spurts energy from the top and will now and then
launch a rolling, bouncing enemy. Basically, the energy balls are "lobbed,"
that is, they ar esubject to gravity and travel in a parabola. 

As such, you can stay near Hishin and move back when it is on the ground,
but when the screen shifts so it is on the top of the screen - get the hell
away from it. Stay near the bottom and dodge the energy balls as they fall
down.

As for the bouncing rolling enemies, they make a distinct sound when they
are lobbed. NEVER let Hishin close you in or else they will hit you with
their shots OR themselves. Staying a distance here makes the fight longer
but at least spares you some regrettable deaths.

So pump it full of whatever you've got as it is fara way. When it moves forward
switch to an up and down formation, then backwards and hit it as you pass it.

Careful evasion is the name of the game here, and definitely use your secondary
weapon to speed it up.

                       ********Boss: Mushikera********

Mushikera is pretty simplistic, though it may take you by surprise unless you
pay attention. The weak spot is the eye in the middle of the wall.

Mushikera will launch white orbs that expplode into a radially burst of shots
when hit. The best thing to do is explode them at a distance so the shots are
extremely thin when they get to you - easy to dodge then.

When mushikera closes its eye, stay where you are until it opens it. It
launches a wave of blue cells forward. If your secondary can't deal with them,
dodge to the bottom of the screen. You need to stay in line with the eye until
it starts firing, otherwise Mushikera seems to shoot a wider berth of shots.

Basically, you have to pound it in the eye from the back of the screen until
it is destroyed. The pattern is easy, though it can get hairy at times.
Concentrate on evasion and it will eventually fall.

                           ~NS5.4: Shinkai Bay~
                           '-................-'


                       ********Miniboss: Umihebi********

Umihebi is a mechanical sea snake that jumps out of the water and fires shots.
Do __not__ waste secondary weapons on it unless you want to take it out fast.
It is only on your plane briefly, meaning you have a small window to hit it
each time. However, this miniboss is largely non-threatening so don't fire
your secondary all helter skelter.

When it jumps out of the water, fire at its head, then dodge to the side. The
snake shoots stremas of red shots, and a starburst of green shots. Dodge the
reds left and right, then stay between the green streams. Stay at the bottom
of the screen and there WILL be enough room to dodge the reds again.

You can stay at the bottom of the screen dodging left and right and get enough
shots in to destroy it quickly. Otherwise, you can move everywhere giving
yourself a wide berth and hit it only a few times during each repetition.

                       ********Boss: Ishigani********

This awesome cool crab is making rap gestures with its claws. It's a shame to
destroy this beacon of rad, but alas... that is the tragedy of Nanostray 2.

Ishigani lets out a wave of red shots. Stay at the bottom of the screen and
head away from the crab when he starts to fire. When the shots come close, fly
between them. You may have to pass through two or three streams, but it's no
problem if you give him a wide enough berth.

When Ishigani stops firing rd shots, he will fire awesome golden lasers. These
lasers bend towards your SHN-fighter and fly forward quickly. Stay near the
bottom until the lasers bend then dodge away from them.

If you keep firing all the while, Ishigani quickly falls. Though its attacks
are constant, it is a large target and thus quickly destroyed. Its whole body
is vulnerable, after all.

                         ~NS5.5: Daitoshi Station~
                          '-...................-'


                        ********Miniboss: Tembi********

Tembi is a humanoid robot. He has two main attacks - a green wave of shots and
large energy balls. The balls of energy start slow then slope towards your ship
and the green waves come in three waves of many bullets. Tembi will use the
energy balls from two positions on the screen, then the green waves, then the
balls, and so on.

When Tembi uses the energy balls, get on the other side of the screen and fire
at tembi. Move out of the way as the balls fly before you. So stop, dodge,
stop, dodge, stop, dodge for each burst of three.

For the green waves, stay at the other side of the screen, NOT in line with
Tembi. Go between the bullets as they spread out, and as I said do not stay in
line with Tembi - in case he flies toward you next.

Throughout the fight, just keep dodging and firing. Adjust your satellites so
that you are always aimed at Tembi.

                        ********Boss: Ginyoku********

Ginyoku is a large, spinning boss. You will need to stay between its blades for
much of the battle. Ginyoku alternates between two main attacks - a raking
laser and a spread of bullets.

When Ginyoku turns its blades on its sides, it is going to fire bullets. They
kind of go like this:
     /\
     || X     While Ginyoku's spread isn't quite this wide, it does show the
     || X     side from which bullets are spread out (X).
    (  )
X  // X\\
X //  X \\
 \/      \/

When Ginyoku spins clockwise while firing a spread, stay up near the top of the
blade oppiste the bullets' point of egress. When the boss spins counter
clockwise, stay near the main body of Ginyoku and beneath the point of egress
if possible.

When Ginyoku has finished a spread it next goes to a laser rake. A laser will
emerge from its body and rake across the screen. You need to get between the
blade and the laser.

Ginyoku's arm/
------------/
'-._
'-._'-._ ( )  <-You
    '-._'-._
        '-._  Laser

Move along with Ginyoku as it spins around. I find the most mobile area of the
screen is the righthand side. Stay here if possible.

As you dodge Ginyoku, continually adjust your satellites so that you are always
aiming at it. Go up next to her when you are beneath. Fire like crazy with your
satellites on the main body of it. And of course, pour your secondary weapons
into the fight.

                            ~NS5.6: Kigan Belt~
                             '-.............-'


                       ********Miniboss: Hanrin********

Hanrin is a fairly easy miniboss. It attacks frequently, however they are very
easy to avoid. Hanrin starts by tracking your position and launching lasers
straight down. Small lasers. It will then open up and shoot raking lasers while
wiggling back and forth.

Hanrin's weakspot is its core. When it is moving to line up with you, fire
straight up into its core. Stay near the middle of the screen and fire up.
Hanrin will fire its lasers. Move just out of reach to the side before you are
hit. Keep firing. Hanrin will move so rinse and repeat, keep this up until
Hanrin starts its other attack. If Hanrin backs you into a corner, you need to
move between the lasers to escape. Don't worry, they're slow and spread enough
that this is perfectly possible.

As for Hanrin's raking attack, simply fly up next to its core and fire like
crazy. Keep your satellites on top of its core. Keep this up until it starts
to close, then start the strategy all over again.

Keep it up, Hanrin requires patience but is quickly downed even without a
secondary weapon - and I recommend you don't use one here if you can help it.


                         ********Boss: Dokuga********


Dokuga is a very simple boss as well, and with a little patience you shouldn't
be touched during this battle. DOkuga starts with large spreads of red shots,
smaller spreads of green shots, then it launches mines at you..

For the red shots, stay at the bottom of the screen and dodge between them as
they come forward. Simple.

When the green shots start, make your way to the centre of the screen until the
reds disappear. The green shots dominate the sides only. FLy up about a ship
and a half's distance from Dokuga's mouth and keep firing until the mines
start.

When it fires mines, remember that theyw ill explode shortly after coming close
to you in a radial burst. It's best to stay on the opposite side of the mines
so that they don't explode. If they do, they are simplya  radial burst of shots
that are easy to avoid. Explode as few as possible.

All the while, pour your secondaries into Dokuga as much as possible. However,
do not fire the secondaries when Dokuga launches mines as they WILL block your
shots. But keep your primary going, Dokuga will soon fall.

                            ~NS5.7: Kohai City~
                             '-.............-'

                       ********Miniboss: Kagizume********


Kagizume will appear from those tunnels at the top of the room so beware, stay
near the bottom until you know what to do.

Kagizume starts by lobbing large coconut shaped bombs. They explode in bursts
of red bullets when shot. It's best to stay up directly next to Kagizume and
your shots should not hit the coconuts. Beware if you have Seeker, the shots
WILL head towards the coconuts.

When Kagizume has lost half of its health, there will be a changing of the
guards. Two arms will appear on either side and start firing little lasers. The
safest way to do this is to sit directly below Kagizume's main core at the
bottom of the screen and use an up and down shot until it's toast.

You just have to dodge the lasers until it drops.

Oh yeah, when Kagizume is in his little pipe between phases? He's vulnerable.
Clean up with an up and down shot or applicable secondary.

                         ********Boss: Kingao********


Kingao is a strange face beast. It's going to be best to keep your distance
from this boss. He has two pirmary attacks - energy balls and a bullet spray.

The energy balls are kind of unpredictable. They don't necessarily fly towards
you and they don't seem to follow any easy pattern. They can fire up on a
diagonal, down on a diagonal, and straight forward. It could have to do with
the direction Kingao's face is in, but I can't really verify this. Either way,
they charge for a second before firing, so you have time between each assault.

Each energy ball seems to ALMOST reach the very back of the screen - which is
where you should be. Once they're here, they move around a bit before leaving.
Stay at the back. Dodge away from the point of impact for the balls, then move
around any remaining bals to a relatively clean section of the screen.

Kingao can also fire waves of red shots -these are a lot easier in that you
only need to stay at the back and move between the gaps in the shots.

All the while you should be firing at Kingao. His assault is tight and constant
but it is a very large target so it shouldn't take long to beat him when it
comes down to it.


                            ~NS5.8: Himuro Base~
                             '-...............-'

                       ********Miniboss: Sankyaku********


Sankyaku walks forward. The screen will continually spin here and it's the
classic shmup standby of move between the legs as it moves. Mind you, I'd much
prefer a 50 foot showgirl, but I'll take it.

HOW Sankyaku walks depends largely on the screen's orientation.

    ==       ==  ==      Essentially, this is how Sankyaku walks forward. It
    ||       ||  ||->    will always have two paired legs and one singular.
    ||       ||  ||->
  ( () )     ( () )      The trick to moving past it is to stay near the single
<-||  ||       ||        leg and you iwll eventually be between two. Then, you
<-||  ||       ||        can simply escape when the leg you were originally
  ==  ==       ==        next to moves down to the other side.

Sankyaku can use a greens pread of bullets as well, and these are more frequent
as it takes more damage. This is why you must get away fro it as soon as you
make it to the other side, so you have enough room to weave between them.

Other than that, folks, it's self-explanatory. You must hit Sankyaku in its
central core, and as you move around and past it, you must switch your
satellite position to meet it - so that you are _always_ aimed at it.

                         ********Boss: Nohkan********

Phase 1:
--------

Nohkan encapsulates another classic element of shmups - the brain boss at the
end. Thankfully, it's not as frail as some of these.

Nohkan's first phase is very simple. It will fire lasers and shots but they
come from the guns above and below the brain on its capsule. The lasers will
crisscross but before they fire there's a small, thin line to show their
position.

-----------[]=( )

The turret will firsts how a thin line.

###########[]=( )

Then the laser will burst forward.

The other thing to note is that the turrets move and their position determines
how the lasers will fire. As such, it's often best to stay at the back of the
screen in the centre because you will either not have to move at all or just
need to make a very small evasive move.

The other attack Nohkan will use is a steady set of red shot bursts. Staying
near the back will give you ample time to avoid this, but if you want to get
close as it starts this assault you can rack up some nice damage before falling
back to deal with the lasers.

Keep it up and Nohkan's chamber starts to crack. I say save any secondaries you
have for the next phase, your standard shot is more than enough for this...

Phase 2:
--------

Nohkan attacks you directly. While it assaults you, there will be many grey
ships trying to ram you as well. Now, these should be destroyed before they get
near you, there's no question about that. Nohkan will try to make things
miserable for you, however.

Essential, Nohkan flies back and forth firing a raking laser from the top of
itself. Now, there's two ways to consider this.

You can move past Nohkan as it moves toward you and switch your direction of
fire every time, and eventually it will fall. The starting direction of the
laser is hard to predict, however.

In my experience, its laser doesn't curve down too much so...

      _______
(A) .'       '.      Getting just beside or above the top part of Nohkan seems
  .'           '.    to be a safe spot.
 .               .
 '-............-'    You will be below the maximum passage of the laser.

A safe spot from Nohkan, anyways. You still have to worry about the grey ships.
So switching from an up/down shot to forward from here will let you get the
greys.

Nohkan does have a lot of stamina so no matter what you do, keep firing and
definitely pour all of your secondary shots into it. And remember, the greys
will take damage form secondaries as well - so be very careful if you have
Seekers here.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                            NS6: Challenge Mode                             |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Challenge Mode is 4 sets of 8 challenges used to unlock the Simulator minigames
for use at your leisure.

Essentially, there are sets A through D and you must clear one set to start
the other. Within a set, you can play the challenges in any order.

Weapon choice often makes all of the difference in the world, and Raydion is
very common in that respect.

But try whatever works for you.

                     -=-=-=-NS6.A: Challenge Set A-=-=-=-
                            >--===---====---===--<

*Challenge A.1
--------------
Task: Collect 70 Yellow Coins
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: None

The coins will appear as you fly forward. Essentially, fly in to meet them. At
both times where the path splits, take the left. When the spinning turrets show
up, fly in and collect the coins around them as they are the most clustered.

Remember, these turrets are invincible, but the guns on them are very obvious.
You should be able to fly in and out without much concern.

*Challenge A.2
--------------
Task: Collect Score 35000, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Seeker

Stay near the bottom left for the first wave, move to the right for the second.
Once both are destroyed, collect the satellites and keep them forward.

When the first spinning enemy arrives, hit it with your powerful blast, then
collect its coins. There will be a wave shortly thereafter, then two more of
these spinners. Destroy them in the same manner.

Make SURe you get the wave following them and blast the large ship coming up
point blank with a seeker and take its coins. If you've done everything as such
up to this point, the enemies between the two ships should be more than enough
to take you above 35000, otherwise, switch to a side shot and use a seeker on
the ships and hope for the best.

*Challenge A.3
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 25 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

Alright, there are two moving platforms which kill on contact and six turrets
which you cannot destroy. This challenge is pure evasion.

Start at top centre. This will protect you for 5 seconds.

At 20 seconds move down above the bottom middle gun, but you will soon dodge
to the left.

At 16/15 seconds you will be heading up - weave between the two shots heading
up on a diagonal.

Dodge the shot heading down, and keep heading down and right between the two
shots coming up form the lower left.

This should take you to 12 seconds. And for the remainder of the stage you will
need to stay in the centre of the screen dodging mostly single shots as they
come near to you.

*Challenge A.4
--------------
Task: Collect Survive
Time Limit: 10 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Ha, this one is merely a trick. Take Raydion from the start and use it to open
one of those side doors. When it opens, sneak into that little chamber ans stay
here as the large ship arrives. In here, it cannot touch you and thus you can
wait the challenge out.

*Challenge A.5
--------------
Task: Complete the course without getting hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Pulse

Start by shooting forward at the yellow blocks ahead. When you break one move
through then head up over the wall, then down beneath the next wall.

For the large fan, follow its spin up and around by staying between its blades
and stay up here until you pass the wall witht he two yellow blocks. Weave down
around the brown block and use the pulse on the yellow blocks coming up.

After you blast a hole go down around the first wall and up over the second.
Immediately use pulse to blast holes in the two yellow block walls straight
ahead.

Go beneath the fan here and right up to the green laser gate. Pass it as soon
as the lasers stop. For the next two laser gates, pull back until they stop,
then speed past them.

Afte rthe laser gates, use pulse on the wall of yellow blocks. Pass through
the holes you make until you come to some fans.

Speed up next to the fans and pass between them as soon as you see an opening.
Fly to victory.

*Challenge A.6
--------------
Task: 45000 points, do not get hit
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Fire at the two waves from above and get your satellites right away.

When you come to a stop, switch to a side shot and hit the individual enemies
that come up.

When the three ships, two from the bottom, one from the top appear, head down
between the two ships and fire up at the top one and your side shots will hit
the two you're between.

Head to the top now as 3 sets of 2 appear from the sides. Hit them with the
sideshot as they appear.

From this point on, use bursts of Raydion as the enemies close you in. Grab
any blue coins that appear to refill your weapon.

*Challenge A.7
--------------
Task: Destroy 14 Waves
Time Limit: 35 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Pulse

Stay on the right and hit the ships as they appear. Honestly? This one is best
taken as reactionary. The ships line up at the top and you can strafe them with
pulse.

Once you have two satellites, keep them on side shot ad destroy the waves as
they come in beside you and get in line to rake them with pulse.

Of course, collect the blue coins.

*Challenge A.8
--------------
Task: 100000 points, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Alright, this one is a stumbling block for some, but proper use of Raydion will
make it a fairly easy task.

Start at the top of the screen and fire on the wave as you travel down. When
you are at the bottom quickly burst your Raydion to get the rest of them.

Stay at the left and hit the wave approacching on the left side and shoot the
rest with a forward shot.

Switch to a backshot and try to take out as much of the wave approaching from
the left as possible as you fly down. Raydion the end of them.

Now, keep your backshot on and raydion the right end of the next wave and
backshot the rest of them.

Switch to an up and down position for your satellites now. Keep firing on the
waves as they appear. Raydion them if they try to pass.

When the waves start to crush in from two sides in long lines, switch to a
forward shot and fly past them with the raydion. Even if you miss a few ships,
100000 points is perfectly reachable.

                     -=-=-=-NS6.B: Challenge Set B-=-=-=-
                            >--===---====---===--<


*Challenge B.1
--------------
Task: Collect 40 yellow coins
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Seeker

You get four shots with Seeker, you could get more with Ion Strike but you need
the speed of Seeker.

Collect the yellow coins ass they appear and hit the robots with Seeker as soon
as they appear. Collect their coins immediately. There are three robots.

Keep firing your primary weapon but hit part of the first wave with your seeker
as well. You want to get a satellite NOW. If you get two satellites, you can
fend off all of the waves as theya ppear, meaning you won't miss the coins.

*Challenge B.2
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 20 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Raydion is a must for this Challenge. You will fly into a structure littered
with cannons...

Alright, shoot the ships that appear or burst raydion if you must. The
satellite should be kept in forward shot formation.

As you fly through, dodge the laser turrets and raydion the bullet turrets.

When you approach the end and the turrets are on the opposite side of the wall,
protected from your shots, use raydion to quickly dispatch them even through
the walls themselves.

*Challenge B.3
--------------
Task: collect 48 Yellow Coins
Time Limit: 10 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

You are surrounded by many boxes start at the top and spin around using
Raydion. Collect all the coins as they head into the centre.

You WANT it staggered like this so that if you do them all at once they won't
disappear. You want ALL of the coins.

*Challenge B.4
--------------
Task: Score 50000 points
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Seeker

Stay at the top and hit that wave as they appear. As a large yellow ship
appears below, fire your seeker. Make sure there are no waves on hand though.
Take the satellite and position yourself centrally.

Shoot the next big yellow asap and start collecting the coins of the first
before the next wave appears. Down this wave. Get the second satellite and
collect the second big yellow's coins.

For the wave approaching from the right, use a forward shot and fly up and
down to hit them all. Fire a seeker at each big yellow that appears and use
an up and down orientation for your satellites for the remaining waves.

*Challenge B.5
--------------
Task: Destroy 15 Waves
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Not as bad as it seems. Again, this one is reactionary. Mostly.

Pick a side, either left or right as the ships arrive at the start. Shoot at
one and use the Raydion to clobber both.

You will get two satellites. But them to your side. Destroy all waves that
appear and use the Raydion for any that are very thick or look like they will
get away. Never mind the robots, you can get 16/17 waves without them.

*Challenge B.6
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

The screen will spin and ships will arrive from the openings in the walls. This
is an exercise in dodging.

Stay near the centre of the screen and any time a ship comes near shoot it if
it is from the front or give a quick burst of the Raydion from any other side.
Just TAP the button for Raydion and it _will_ last you this whole stage. Dodge
the bullets then get back intot he centre.

*Challenge B.7
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 20 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: None

You're between four invincible bullets praying turrets. Essentially, this is a
a weaving exercise. Stay at the top centre until about 10/8 seconds. Weave your
way back into the centre now and dodge until time runs out.

This one is really all about your reflexes.

*Challenge B.8
--------------
Task: Score 37000 points, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Remember if you just TAP the button for Raydion, it gives a quick burst of
electricity that will still hit everything around you as it normally functions.

Anyways, all of those cells come down around you. They spiral in. When the
cells start to spiral back out, give the biggest clump of them a jolt with
Raydion.

If you tap it correctly, you should have enough juice to take you through the
stage. Otherwise, if you have just over 30000 the nanogauge should allow you
to string enough cells together to make up the difference. Given enough time
of course.


                     -=-=-=-NS6.C: Challenge Set C-=-=-=-
                            >--===---====---===--<


*Challenge C.1
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

Pull back from the structure as you make your approach. Wait for the turrets to
fire their first volley then move past the first pair, up around the wall and
then pass the second pair.

It will be around 21 seconds now. Stay in the little alcove at the top of the
screen as the next turret fires. Whent he shot passes beneath you, pass by the
turret and stay to the right of it.

At the end there is a flamethrower, nothing to worry about because you are not
going down there. Stay near the opening at the top of the screen. When the
screen starts back left around 12 seconds, let any shots pass you before
heading through the upper path again. Wait for the turret in the tunnel to
fire then pass it. Do not hide int he alcove again.

You can pass the paired set of cannons when they don't fire, around 6 seconds
remaining. Take the _lower path_ here, more room to dodge.

When the timer hits three, you can pass the final pair of turrets and you're
home free.

*Challenge C.2
--------------
Task: Score 35000 points
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Raydion gets so much love in the challenges. You need to fly by the waves of
ships and hit them with electricity. Make sure to fly opposite of their
direction to minimize power use. If you die during one wave but manage to
destroy it before it leaves, you can still win. May be the way to refill
your secondary meter, but use blue coins as much you can.

*Challenge C.3
--------------
Task: Collect 12 yellow coins
Time Limit: 33 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: None

There's a definite pattern here.

1. The first coin is right above you. Grab it and pull back.
2. Fly up and right, just below the flamethrower. Grab the coin.
3. After they blow, fly up and grab the third coin.
4. Take the yellow coin below the brown block as you fly left.
5. Grab the fifth above the flamethrower.
6, 7, 8: They're at the top of the run. Get hit with a flamethrower and use
         your temporary invulnerability to grab all three.
9. Grab the new coin under the brown block as you head back down.
10. Stay to the left as you head down and wait for the flamethrowers
   (horizontal) to blow. Grab the yellow coin beneath them to the left.
11, 12: When you see the last two coins, get hit by fire then quickly snatch
        them up.

You have 99 lives, yes, but only lose them when the screen doesn't move. Any
notion otherwise could screw you out of grabbing a coin.

*Challenge C.4
--------------
Task: Destroy 20 waves
Time Limit: 33 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Oh Raydion, lovely. This stage is pretty straight forward. Use your primary
weapon on enemies in front of you and Raydion on those above, below or behind
you.

Essentially, start out by taking the first wave with your primary as they
emerge and teh secondary with Raydion. Get your satellites and start firing and
never stop (with the primary).

Everytime you destroy some waves, get the blue coin. Raydion should be used in
the shortest bursts necessary. For the vertical wave near the end, use the
primary weapon.

*Challenge C.5
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 45 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

45 seconds: Move north. Top middle.
40 seconds: Move into the centre. Move down and right between the walls until
            the moving barricades get out of the way.
36: Move back up to the top middle. Move left, down, right between the two
    walls.
32: Move left, down, right to the middle. Move to the top middle and back to
    the left.
24: Move down, right, and up into the top middle.
12: Move to the bottom middle, just between the two small walls. As the
    barricade passes above, head back up to the top middle before the one
    beneath you crushes you.
7: Move left until the barricade passes, move back right and stay there until
   the challenge ends.

*Challenge C.6
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 40 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Use raydion the first two waves coming at you so you get two satellites. Then,
switch to using a forward shot and destroy the next two waves and take the blue
coins to refill your secondary meter.

Now, use your standard shot to destroy a yellow block to the north. Let's use
the righthand path as it is honestly a little easier despite the sooner gas
vent. Either way, let the gas vent blow, then when you can fly out past it,
Raydion the wall, and wait just before the next vent.

Fire at the blocks past this vent with your primary. After it blows, pass it.

There is a vent spaying north here. Wait beside it as the screen scrolls to the
north. As soon as you see space beyond the red wall, wait for the vent to blow,
and pass it when the coast is clear.

Alright, 18 seconds left. Destroy the waves here you WANT juice for your
Raydion.

When you see the open gap, wait for the gas to vent down. After it disappears,
fly up and use a Raydion blast on the wall to the right. Slip in here where no
gas can hit you.

After the next vent gasses upwards, fly past it and hit the next block with a
Raydion burst. Fly out to freedom.

*Challenge C.7
--------------
Task: Collect 35 yellow coins.
Time Limit: 35 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Ion Strike

Ion Strike is key here. It is powerful enough to destroy a cruiser and has at
least 5 uses without recharge.

Essentially, hit the cruisers with an ion strike and collect its five coins.
You need to down 7 of them so you MUST hit all the waves that appear. Destroy
as many cruisers as you can but you should be in position to start recharging
your secondary just as or just after it runs out.

*Challenge C.8
--------------
Task: Do not get hit.
Time Limit: 35 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

Hug the back of the screen and stay near the middle as the walls taper in
towards the middle of the room.

Head up at the first split.

Head up past the climbing stair of platforms. Then down under the next one.
After you arrive at the bottom of the screen, head back into the middle so
as not to crash into the next wall.

Head down below the next block then back into the middle to pass between the
two walls. This is the 21 second mark and halfway through the level.

Head down below the next wall and back into the centre as the platforms taper
in towards the middle. So you want to stay central.

After the tapering, head down below the wall, then up over the next as soon
as you pass under. Then back intot he middle to pass between two walls.

Stay central. When you pass throught he middle of an "J" and "7" shaped walls,
go up above the next block then back into the middle.

Stay below the longer, mishapen structure and move up to the middle after the
small platform that follows it.

Fly beneath the long platform, between the two long platfroms, then take the
twisty path in the lower portion of the next structure. Get central again.

Dodge the block then stay central for the next tapering. Dodge again then stay
dead centre for the final tapering, the tunnel is just big enough to squeeze
your SHN-Fighter through.

                     -=-=-=-NS6.D: Challenge Set D-=-=-=-
                            >--===---====---===--<

*Challenge D.1
--------------
Task: Collect 18 yellow coins
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Seeker

Kind of cheap, but the best way to do this is to die halfway through to refill
your weapon. Shoot the crawlers at point blank range with the seeker. After
you have killed three AND collected their coins, die and get the last three
with your new payload of Seekers.

Kind of cheap, but it works.

*Challenge D.2
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

This one is about proper Raydion management. Stay behind rocks as the screen
scrolls and use raydion to blast any turrets that do get close to you. Blast
ONLY those that are going to be in the way of you, and hide behind rocks as
the screen scrolls.

Dodge the shots until the stage ends.

*Challenge D.3
--------------
Task: Score 1200 points, do not die.
Time Limit: 25 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Shock Mines

As you move right, hit the rolling, bouncing enemies with shockmine sand your
primary weapon. The shock mines will kill them on contact. If you can get two
or three in a row as the nanogauge is still full, you will easily pass it.

Once you have 1200 points, retreat below the platforms at the end for safety.
Otherwise, destroy the dudes near the end.

*Challenge D.4
--------------
Task: Collect 15 yellow coins, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 15 Seconds
Orientation: Vertical
Recommended Weapon: None

When you start, you are invulnerable. Make EXCELLENT use of this time. Grab the
two coins down near the vents, grab the one at the left first, then the one at
the right, and then grab the four yellow coins in the spinning skeletal circle.
Pass out to its side before your invulnerability runs out.

At the VERY least, get the two coins nearest the vent while you are still
invulnerable.

Move to the top of the screen now and take the coins here.

As for the coins in the skeletal rings, wait until they open to the top so the
acid vents are then blocked and cannot spray you.

*Challenge D.5
--------------
Task: Collect 7 yellow coins, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Essentially, there are mashers and there are turrets. When a masher opens and
you can see space beyond it, you can pass. Use the Raydion to destroy any
turrets with _quick bursts_, just _tap_ the button.

Collect the yellow coins at one point before moving past the next set of
mashers.

*Challenge D.6
--------------
Task: Collect 12 yellow coins, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: Raydion

Iron balls will be destroyed in a quick Raydion burst, so it is the weapon of
choice.

Start with the ball right below you. Dodge the shots after youd estroy it and
take its two coins.

Head down and right when the gears spin out of the way and destroy the ball
here.

Now, on the righthand side, there will be two balls close together. Even so,
destroy one at a time to reduce the amount of bullets onscreen.

As you head back left, yse Raydion on the turret here. Simply destroy the
balls as you head down. You COULD destroy the two final ones together, as you
will have plenty of room to move around here.

*Challenge D.7
--------------
Task: Collect 4 yellow coins, do not get hit.
Time Limit: 15 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

While still invulnerable, take the lower left coin and move to the lower right
and take this one. Move now to the upper right and take this coins. Wait now
for the red turret to fire, dodge and pass over it, and grab the final coin.

*Challenge D.8
--------------
Task: Survive
Time Limit: 30 Seconds
Orientation: Horizontal
Recommended Weapon: None

This one is all about dodging.

At 25 seconds, stay in the centre and the screen will start to spin.
At 20 seconds, the spray gets pretty thick. When there is a spray like this
you need to stay near the centre as the spray thins out and weave between the
globs of acid.

Really guys, this one is all you. It;s about relfexes and your ability to weave
between shots.

But as a guide line, when a spray si coming fromt he side, stay below the
spray's poiint of egress.

When it is from below and quite large, you will need to head to the centre and
find an opening.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                               NS7: Simulators                              |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Simulators are minigames you unlock by completing the Challenge Mode. Though
they serve as diversions they do not lack finesse.

*Nanobreak:
 ---------

Nanobreak is a breakout style minigame where you must hit the ball with a
paddle.

The paddle is controlled with the stylus. You can use it to whap the ball back
at the bricks.


                      ( )
                       ^
   ( )                 ^
    ^                  ^
    ^                  ^
==========         ==========
==========         ==========
                    ^^^^^^^^
                    ^^^^^^^^

Still paddle.      Hitting with the paddle.

You really do have to wack the ball. If you wack it by pulling the paddle from
low in the field of movement up and striking the ball, the ball will fly a
better tdistance than if you were to just let it hit the paddle.

( )    ( )     ( )
  *     *      *
   *    *     *
    ==========
    ==========

The ball as well will fly depending on where it hits the paddle. Hitting it on
the side of the paddle will cause it to ave a more severe arc to that
direction.

        ( )     ( )
       *       *
     *     *
==========
==========
    ^
  ^
^

Now, if you are moving the paddle on an angle, hitting the ball in the centre
of the paddle will cause it be angled, and hitting it on the side will cause it
to have a more severe tilt.

+--------------+
|              |
|              |
|              |
|              |
/              \


+--------------+

The playing field has a large gap on the bottom. The ball can be lost off of
the sides, but you can move the paddle anywhere in this area. Within the
playing field you will encounter obstacles to block you, blocks for points,
and glowing orbs that split your ball into two.

This is all very simple but there is one dangerous happening:

If a ball is coming down on an almost 180 degree angle, almost completely
horizontal. The best way to handle this is to hit it with the middle of the
paddle.

If it is going towards the side and isn't in the playing field, try to block
it off completely there by making a L or J with the wall, but if it is in the
playing field, hit it in the centre. It may not go very far at first, but at
least you can break it out of its path.

*Nanorush:
 --------

Orb: 500 Points
Barrel: 1000 Points
Cone: 3000 Points

Nanorush is a simple game. Simply use the control pad to steer your craft as
you fire at enemies. Fly into orbs to get their points but shoot barrels and
cones.

Barrels do not move so you can just line up and shoot them.

Cones are a different story, they fire back. It's best to wait for them to
fire, let it pass, line up with them and pulversie them with your own attack.

It gets very thick as you go on, but try to keep this style up as you zip
around walls and destroy enemies.

*Nanotorque:
 ----------

Nanotorque is a difficult though addicting asteroids style game. Essentially,
there are blocks here you must fire upon to spin them around. Each block has a
green and a red half, and you need to have same colours hit each other.

  +-+-+           +------+           +------------+
  | | |           |      |           |            |
  | | |           |______|           |____________|
  | | |           |      |           |            |
  | | |           |      |           |            |
  +-+-+           +------+           +------------+

  Thin             Medium               Large

The size also determines the speed at which they can spin. The larger blocks
cannot spin nearly as well. Spin is also determined by wehre you shoot the
block itself. If you shoot it on the corner, the block will be spun more
violently around in that direction, shooting it near the centre may confuse
the spin and make it more spin more slowly.

Volume of shots is the third decding factor here. The more you fire, the more
it will spin to compensate. Of course, if you fire too much, it may spin back
or spin to far. Short bursts are the best way to hit things here.

When two opposite colours collide, you lose 8 seconds and a burst of shots is
released. These shots will turn any other block they come in contact with, so
watch out.

Making same colours collide adds four seconds to your clock, as does collecting
a +4 item.

The ship can be destroyed by collidign with a block or getting hit with their
explosion. However, the game is not over until the timer reaches 0.

So, stay near the centre and try to direct same colours into one another. If
there is only one block onscreen at a time, it is almost not worth spinning it
until another comes along. You see, the biggest flaw with Nanotorque is that
a block can suddenly appear on the side. Now, this may result in -8 or +4 if
something hits it, but there's no way to know what's coming. Just take it in
stride.

*Nanogrid:
 --------

Nanogrid is much like Qix, or even Duncan's Thin Ice. You can hold down the
button to draw a line. This line must be drawn around the mobile items between
the grid lines. These grid lines mark your only points of movement, and drawing
a line around an item will destroy it and earn you points.

Consequently, drawing a line around more than one results in a multiplier.

Enemies are here too, however, and like Qix, if they touch you or your line
you will lose a chance. I have surrounded enemies and they did not perish, so
for now I believe you will just have to avoid them.

Along the while, there are small items that appear on the gridlines. Pick these
up for a small amount of points, though sometimes when I have included them in
my line's path I've received a mulitiplier upon destroying an item. Worth a try
though it seems kind of up in the air.

As time marches on, there will be an abundance of enemies. At this point it
becomes more about getting those small items, and taking the few chances you
can get to encapsulate an item.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                              NS8: Unlockables                              |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Nanostray 2 has a handful of unlockables, beyond the little stars you get on
the menu for clearing difficulty levels.

                            ---Challenge Sets---

Challenges are arranged in sets, A through D. You must complete a set to unlock
another.

Challenge Set B: Complete Challenge Set A
Challenge Set C: Complete Challenge Set B
Challenge Set D: Complete Challenge Set C

                           ---Arcade Mode Levels---

The Arcade mode levels must be unlocked in Adventure Mode. You merely have to
play these stages to unlock them, and each stage unlocks its respectvie
appearance in Arcade.

Therefore, it may be worthwhile to play the game in different orders until you
catch em' all.

                               ---Simulators---

Simulators are little minigames you can unlock by completing sets of challenges
in the challenge mode.

*Nanobreak:

This is a breakout style game that you control with the stylus. Unlock
Nanobreak by completing Challenge Set A.

*Nanorush:

This is a 3D minigame that I guess is kind of like Hyperzone... but not quite.
It's pretty rad, unlock it by completing Shallenge Set B.

*Nanotorque:

Nanotorque is an awesome Asteroids style minigame, where you need to shoot
blocks of two colours so that one colour spins into the same colour on another
block. Complete Challenge Set C for this.

*Nanogrid:

Nanogrid is kind of like Qix, but more like Duncan's Thin Ice on the
Intellivision. You need to draw lines around items to score while avoiding
enemies. Unlock it via Challenge Set D.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
|                                NS9: Credits                                |
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Many thanks to the folks behind the Nanostray series for bringing something to
the DS that it severely lacks. And beyond that, it's a well made game. Ha ha,
well, keep up the great work Shin'en.

Lots of thanks to Ishigani, for being the next in a long line of awesome crabs
who are also bosses. Clawgrip would be proud.

Thanks of course go out to my hosts, as without them you would not be reading
this guide.

Websites with permission to use this Guide:
www.GameFAQS.com
www.neoseeker.com
faqs.IGN.com
www.1up.com
www.honestgamer.com
gamesradar.com
cheatplanet.com


Game by Shin'en.
