                                  The Legend of
                          __  / ____| |     __ \    \
                             /  __|   |     |   |  _ \  
                            /   |     |     |   | ___ \ 
                          ____|_____|_____|____/_/    _\

                        P H A N T O M  H O U R G L A S S
  _                                                                         _
 / | FAQ/Walkthrough by Banjo2553                           Copyright 2009 | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Welcome to my Phantom Hourglass guide!

This is my first guide of a 2D-style Zelda game. This is also the first 2D-
style Zelda to use 3D graphics, so yippee! Hopefully the guide shouldn't change
in quality because of this. Anyway, I made this because I really appreciate
Phantom Hourglass for doing something new. The control style is very unique and
everything is done with the stylus. No button presses used in the game! (except
for taunting in multiplayer) Due to the stylus control, it gives a whole new
use to previous items! Despite the items in the game all being re-used from
previous Zeldas, the control style makes them feel completely new. Not only 
that, this Zelda also became pretty clever when it came to puzzles. I hope that
becomes a trend in all future Zelda games.

So anyway, this game is a sequel to Wind Waker, the highly-acclaimed Zelda game
that was made on the GameCube. As such, it shares a similar art style, and
retains the same premise. (A Zelda adventure set in the seas.) In many ways, it
improves what Wind Waker did, in other ways...not so much. However, for a 
portable 3D Zelda, it does its job well. This game also hearkens back to Zelda
1 and Zelda II on the NES, in that instead of Heart Pieces to find, you have to
find whole Heart Containers scattered throughout the game, aside from the ones
from defeated bosses. In the place of Heart Pieces are Spirit Gems, however.
Collecting enough of them can upgrade Link in various ways. They'll be detailed 
in the Spirit Gems section. So...enjoy my guide!

CURRENT VERSION: Made the whole guide, every section covered. So yeah...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 \ |                           TABLE OF CONTENTS                           | /
  ¯                                                                         ¯
I. Legal Notices                             7ZZZZZZZZZ
II. Controls                               77777777777ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
III. Walkthrough                         Z$?=:,,,,,,,,:~=++=::,:?$ZZZZZZZ
  a. Ghost Ship Adventure!               ZZ++=~,,,,,,,,,~+++???IZZZZZZZ7ZZ
  b. Hot on the Trail                     Z++~,,,,,,,:~~~+++???IIZZZZZI7ZZ
  c. Deep Temple Exploring                ZZZZZZZZ7+~===+++????IIZZZZZIZZ
  d. Slight of Wind                       ZZ~,~?7ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZI7Z
  e. Deeper Temple Exploring            ZZZ=+=~,,,~~==ZZZZZ,~+7ZZZZZZZZ
  f. Courageous Salvaging          Z~?7??Z,++=$ZZ?~=ZZ,::,ZZ???III777ZZ
  g. Ghost Ship Rescue           ZZ~??$?Z,++?ZZZIZZZZ,~=++ZZZZI7ZZ777$ZIIZZZI
  h. Deepest Temple Exploring     ZZ???Z,?+ZZZI+++++Z?:=+7ZZZZZZZZZ777ZZ?=77Z
  i. In Huge Goro-Trouble          ZZII7$ZZZZ?::~~~~=Z,=+ZZZ++++++ZZ$77Z?7Z7ZZ
  j. Chilling Tale                 IZZZZZZZZ?::,~~~~:Z+++ZZ+=:::+++ZZ77ZZZ77ZZZ
  k. Kingdom of the Dead                  Z$=:::~~~~:IZZZZZ+:::~+++~ZZ7777ZZZZ
  l. Forging Bellum's Defeat              ZZ=:::~~~~::+++++::::+++=:ZZZZZZZZ
IV. Spoiler-Free Walkthrough              ZZ?=::~~~~::::::::::=+++:=ZI
V. Heart Container List                    ZZ?=,~~~~:::::::::~+++:7ZZ
VI. Spirit Gem List                         ZZI~~~~~::::::::+++=:IZZ
  a. Power Gems                               ZZZ~~~~:::::::++=:?ZZZ
  b. Wisdom Gems                              ZZZZ+~~::::~+::?ZZZI
  c. Courage Gems                               ZZZZ~:::::=ZZZZZ
VII. Treasure Maps                              ZZZZ~~::~ZZZI
VIII. Ship Parts                              ZZZZZ$~~::~ZZZ
  a. List by Type                           ZZZZ$=======?+ZZZ
  b. List by Set                          ZZZZ?=~::=====??=ZZZZ
IX. Inventory                            ZZZ7=~::~=======??+IZZZ
  a. Normal Items                       ZZZ=~:::++++++++++???+$ZZ
  b. Collection                         ZZ=~:::++++++++++++???+ZZ
  c. Treasure                          ZZ=:::::++++++++++++????+ZZ
  d. Common Pick-ups              ZZZZ:ZZ=::::==++++++++++++???+$Z
  e. Dungeon Items               ZZ+I7ZZZ=::::==++++++++++++???+?Z  8$=
  f. Bottled Items             Z7=??ZZ?$ZZ::::==++Z::+Z+++++???+?ZZZZZZZ
X. Enemies                      Z~$7?Z??IZZ:::==+Z:=++Z$++++???IZ=7777ZZZ
XI. Bosses                       Z??IZZ???ZZ77$ZZ::=++IZ?+????Z+I7ZZZZ7ZZZ
XII. Credits                      Z?:+ZI???==~:Z::==+++ZZZZ$$Z=77ZZZ7Z7ZZZZ
                                      ZZZZ$7++++$Z=++++7ZZ$I+=77ZZZZZ7ZZZ
                                      ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ$$7ZZZIZZZZ7
                                     ZZ7IIIII777$ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
                                    ZZ7IIII7777777ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZIZ
                                   ZZZIIIII7777777ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZIZZ
                                   ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZIIZZ
                                        7ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ$$ZZ
                                                    7ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                               Legal Notices                               |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
The words in this FAQ are copyrighted. Do not copy this FAQ and claim it as
your own, or else you'll meet severe penalties. ONLY GameFAQs, Neoseeker, and 
SuperCheats are allowed to host/display this FAQ, no exceptions. Nothing 
personal, it just gets confusing to keep track of which FAQ is up-to-date and 
which is not, so I will decline any requests to put my FAQ on your site. Again, 
nothing personal.

My e-mail address is gmaster2647@gmail.com . You can email me for questions, 
comments, or even suggestions, just make sure your emails are coherent. I will 
not accept spam or hate mail, as they will get deleted. Make your emails as
coherent as possible as well.
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                 Controls                                  |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
As mentioned in the intro of the guide, this game is completely controlled by
the DS's stylus. From moving, attacking, to using items. I'll detail the game's
HUD (Heads-Up Display) and how to do various actions outside of how to use the
game's items. If you want to know how to use the items, check the items 
section.

Hold the stylus at a place on the touch screen and Link will follow it. How far
the stylus is from him determines how fast he goes. To slash, simply slide the
stylus a direction in front of him. To stab, slide the stylus away from Link.
You can specifically target enemies with slashes by tapping them. If you're far
away and do the target slash, Link will most likely do the powerful jump 
strike. Slide the stylus around Link quickly to do a spin attack. To roll, hold
the stylus at the edge of the touch screen, and slide the stylus in a fast 
circle motion. You can also just slide the stylus back and forth in small 
motions. Don't roll or do spin attacks too many times, or Link will become 
dizzy for a second or two.


ON-LAND HUD:
Top left of the touch screen indicates Link's current health in the form of
hearts. Top right of the touch screen shows which weapon Link currently has
equipped, and, depending on the item, its current ammo. Bottom left is "Menu."
When tapped, you get the option to save, view your Collection screen, view the
Sea Chart, or edit the map (which is on the top screen.) Bottom right is 
"Items." When tapped, you get a small meny showing your items and any potions
you have. (You can only carry two potions.) Tap an item to equip it.

The Collection screen shows various quest details. The top screen shows how 
much time you have in the Phantom Hourglass and your current record in the 
Temple of the Ocean King (before that, your current pure metals collected), 
your current sword, your shield, and the capacity you have for your arrows, 
Bombs, and Bombchus. The bottom screen details the Spirits you've collected and 
if they're leveled up, your current amount of each Spirit Gem, important items, 
amount of treasure charts, any mail that you may be currently holding, and if 
you have the scroll of the top secret sword skill learned. Touch the left arrow 
to see your largest catches of each fish type that you got when fishing, 
including your current lure. Touch the right arrow to see the current ship 
parts and Treasure (Spoils from Wind Waker) that you have.

If you bring up the map the screens switch their display. Link and his 
surroundings will now be on the top screen, and the map will be on the bottom
screen. With this, you can now draw on the map. This can be used to draw down
an important clue instead of having to memorize it. This is also true for the
Sea Chart option.


ON-SEA HUD:
Top left shows the ship's current health, "Menu" shows the option for the
Collection Screen and Sea Chart, but will also "Slate," "Salvage," and "Fish."
These options appear as you get new items for the ship, and some of them can
only be used at select spots. Bottom right button is "Route." When picked, the
screens switch displays and you are allowed to draw on the section of the Great
Sea that you are on. However, drawing a line from the ship to any other place
will let it sail there. During sailing, you can touch and drag the screen to
move the camera, tap to fire a cannon bomb (endless amount, can't be used until
you get a Cannon), and tap the button on the bottom of the screen to make the
ship jump. You can also make the ship stop or go at any point by touching the
respective buttons on the right side of the touch screen. To dock at an island,
just create a route from the ship to the anchor icon beside an island.


I think I've explained all the details. On to the walkthrough!
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                Walkthrough                                |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Starting out a game is the same as any other Zelda game. Pick a file, and put 
in your name. The name you put in will be the name people refer to when they
speak to Link. Afterwards, you set which hand you use the stylus in. Once the 
created file is picked, you will have the choice of Adventure or Battle. Battle 
is an online multiplayer mode, but I don't cover it in this guide. For now, 
pick Adventure and the game will start up right away.
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||       Ghost Ship Adventure!        ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
The game starts off with a retelling of Wind Waker's story, for those who 
haven't played it or don't remember the plot too well. Look at the crazy 
drawings! After the story is finished, it appears that Niko was telling the 
story! ...Link became bored out of his mind though. Tetra goes to try to wake
Link up, but to no avail. Suddenly, amidst all the chatter between Tetra and 
her pirates, the skies become foggy...the air becomes chilly...and the infamous
Ghost Ship appears beside their ship! Tetra hops on to check it out, but 
suddenly screams. The Ghost Ship starts to sail away, and Link jumps toward the
ship, barely catching the guardrail. He attempts to pull himself up, but falls
into the ocean.

Link wakes up on some distant island, a voice trying to get his attention. He
spots a fairy named Ciela. Link tells her of what happened, and she thinks her
grandpa might know something. She flies over to her grandpa's house to point it
out, and then you gain control! Simply walk over to the house and enter it. 
When inside, talk to the old man by tapping him. Old man Oshus discourages you
from finding the Ghost Ship, but Ciela finally convinces him. He tells you that
a sailor named Linebeck has recently docked here on this island, and shows you
where the port is. Time to go there. Exit the house and start heading 
east...and the earth rumbles? Aw crap, the bridge to the port just 
broke...well, let's take a detour. Head west and find a path to the north and
take it.

Walk forward and Ciela will spot monsters. She suggests getting something to
defend yourself with before moving on, so go back to Oshus and talk to him. 
Again he insists that you don't go, since it's too dangerous. Party pooper.
Exit the house. Have you noticed a cave beside Oshus's house? Tap the barrels
in the way to pick them up, and throw them by tapping another spot. Head 
inside. Approach the door to the north and Ciela will mention that Oshus's 
sword is kept behind the door, and the code to write on the sign beside the
door is the number of palm trees on the beach...you can go and count them (the
beach where you immediately started playing), but the number is 7. Tap the sign
and draw "7" on the sign and the door will open. Head through the door and open
the chest for OSHUS'S SWORD! Awesome. Exit the cave.

OH SH.....US! It's you! Um...yeah, we just uh...needed the sword. Yeah. Wait,
he'll let us go through? Huh...okay. We need to learn how to use the sword 
first? Fair enough. We'll be at Oshus's house to do sword training. It's pretty
straightforward instructions, I have no need to guide you through it. Once 
that's done, exit the house and take that same path north like before. Kill the
Red ChuChus while following the path. Notice the Gossip Stone? It tells you 
about how to roll and to roll into the tree beside it. Do so to make a Red 
Rupee fall out! Anyway, continue, cutting down trees in the way, and enter the
cave.

Inside, head forward and remove the boulders in the way to spot a locked door.
Keep moving east to be surrounded by Red ChuChus. No big deal. Slash them away
and open the chest on the pedestal to get a small key! Go back to the locked 
door and tap it to open it. Up ahead is a puzzle. Kill the Red ChuChus, then
move right. See the block? Tap it, then hold the stylus on the right arrow to
push it. Kill the Keese inside and open the chest for a Red Rupee. The sign
there tells you that the second lever to pull is the very left one, and the
last lever is the second right one. Now if you head left from here and push 
that block, you'll find another sign. This tells you that the first one to pull
is the second left. Knowing these clues, we should be able to determine what
the third lever is supposed to be, eh? Go back to the levers, pull the second
left one out first, then the one beside it, then pull the very right lever, 
then the last one to make a small key appear. Grab it and use it to unlock the
door. Head through.

In this next room, head forward while killing Rats to spot a locked door and a
way left. There's one annoying Rat that holds a small key that hides in the
rat holes. The one surefire way to kill this Rat is to head all the way left,
pull the block to the right two notches, then push it north right in front of
that rat hole. Now move toward the locked door and wait there while watching 
the map. Once the rat comes out and passes you, get in its path. As it comes
back around, slash and kill the Rat. Pick up the small key, open the locked 
door, and follow the Keese-infested tunnel to the exit, where you reach the 
port town!

Ciela will once again point out where the port is, so head over there. Some guy
watching over Linebeck's ship will gaze at it, and says that the last time he
saw Linebeck was in the milk bar. Let's head over there. It's the biggest 
building here. Once inside...Linebeck's not here. Talking to the bar owner will
reveal that Linebeck rushed off to the Temple of the Ocean King, and points it
out on your map after Link desperately told him where Linebeck is. It's that
giant building on the north end of the island. So exit the milk bar. Before 
heading up there, we need to properly defend ourselves. Do you have 80 Rupees
by now? Usually when I get to this point, I have 100 Rupees already, so if you
do, enter the shop. It looks like an indian teepee. Inside, tap the table to
start shopping, and tap the WOODEN SHIELD. Buy it! There's another item of
interest here, and it looks like a red teardrop...but it's a whopping 500 
Rupees! Better come back here later. Exit the shop.

Now, there's a chest on a ledge to the left of the shop. In order to get to the
ledge, you'll have to pick up a Cucco, which is one of the chickens around 
here. Just sneak up behind it and tap it to grab onto it. Now run towards that
ledge and jump off. You'll be carried to the ledge. Drop off the Cucco and open
the chest for a Treasure! (I think for the most part, Treasure from chests is
random. So I'll just call the items Treasure. For more information, see the
Treasures subsection in the Inventory section.) You can sell this Treasure if
you want to, it has no other use. You can't sell stuff at these shops though...
you have to find any of the Beedle shops to do so. So with that in mind, take
the path north from here out of town.

Follow the path, killing the Red ChuChus, and take the stairs to the north. Be
careful of the Takkuri bird that can steal your money. At any rate, notice the
cliff edge that starts on the north? See the nearest tree beside that? Roll 
into the tree and a Big Green Rupee will fall out. It's worth 100 Rupees, so 
take it! Follow the path west to the next "screen." Keep going west and you 
will reach the Temple of the Ocean King. After some jabber, head inside. As 
soon as you step inside, Ciela will spot a skeleton on the ground and hastily
assume it to be Linebeck's remains. While that may not be possible, talking to
the lingering spirits of the fallen here give you important tips about the
temple. Head through the next entrance to actually enter the temple.

And you'll hear someone calling out to you! Ciela shrugs it off, so step 
forward again and you'll hear that voice again! It's actually Linebeck! He's
stuck behind some spikes and claims his ankle is sprained, so he can't just 
jump over them. Bleh. Let's help him out! Step forward and...what is it now? 
Oh...he tells us that the temple sucks your soul from you, but you're safe if 
you stand on the purple spaces. Good to know. Now check your map. See the top
left purple space with a door that blocks off the northern part of this room?
Head there quickly. Hit the switch to lower the spikes for Linebeck, and he
takes off like a bat out of...hell...wait, didn't he say his ankle was 
sprained?

Head back to the entrance and watch the scene. Linebeck learns that you're 
after the Ghost Ship, and immediately assumes that you're after the treasure 
there. Ciela tells him Link's story, and then he decides that he'll help you 
for his own selfish desires. He then fast talks his way out of explaining his
ankle, that it actually is still sprained. Yeah right. He gives poor 
discombobulated (don't ask) Link a small key to find something hidden here. So
let's continue. Head back north to that locked door that was beside the switch
and open it. If you go to the very top left here, you'll spot a switch. Hitting
this will lower the spikes to the right, but a timer will also set off. Quickly
get to the other side of the room (avoid the lower path, it has a trap door on
the floor) and hit the other switch. The door on the north will open. Head 
there and open the large chest for a sea chart! Now you've got a sea chart of
the southwestern sector of the Great Sea! Head back to the entrance to find 
that Linebeck is gone. That rat. Exit the temple completely to find him...and
he steals your sea chart! After him! Back at the port!

Hey, Oshus is here! After Oshus tells Linebeck what for when his ego gets ahold
of him, Linebeck says that there is nothing of interest on that sea chart. 
Oshus begs to disagree however, and says one peculiar spot on the map can be
scratched away. The sea chart will move to the bottom screen now. Simply rub
the stylus on the lower right island there to find a secret! Rub it completely
until it is revealed. Aha! So our next destination is the Isle of Ember. If you
are ready to go, just say so to Linebeck and we'll be off!

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield

COLLECTION (bottom screen): 0

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
None

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 0
Wisdom: 0
Courage: 0

TREASURE MAPS: 0

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 0

Total Health: 3 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||          Hot on the Trail          ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Your destination is south from here, the Isle of Ember! Just touch the feather
pen icon that's on the ship and draw a line to the anchor icon beside the Isle
of Ember and sail there. You might have to watch out for some Sea Traps. For
now, just jump them if you see them. As for the golden frog that hops out of 
the ocean...ignore it. Once you've docked, your first objective is to find
Astrid, the fortune-teller. She's in the only house on this side that's on a
higher ledge. Head there, and once inside, go down to the basement. Inside you
will face a few Octoroks. Kill them all, then approach the other door here. You
will be able to hear someone on the other side. Call out to them by yelling at
the DS (or simply whistle) and this person, Astrid, will ask you to let her 
out. She says that her assistant Kayo has the "key" to help her out. So let's
go find Kayo!

Search in the houses...and you'll find a journal and a torch inside. The 
journal says that he's on the east side of the island. Let's go there! Head 
east, dodging Takkuri and killing some Yellow ChuChus and Tektites. Eventually 
Ciela will spot a skeleton. Approach it and a ghost will appear! It's 
Kayo...man, has he really died? That sucks. But at any rate, he's still able to 
tell us the secret, which is marking down the torches that are on this island. 
There's a torch right by him, so mark that on your map. Haven't we seen a torch 
in Kayo's house? Go ahead and mark that location as well. Now for the last 
one...go around the island's north end and you'll find the last torch! Mark 
down that, then head back to Astrid's from the south side.

Back at her basement, go to the little map beside the locked door, and touch 
the spots where the torches are. If they're in the correct spot, the door will
open. After talking to her, tell her your reason for being here (I'm not sure 
it matters what, but I always pick "A ship...") Agree to let her tell your 
fortune, and after a bit of dialogue and a scene change, she'll tell you that
your objective is to head inside the Temple of Fire hidden on this island. 
Let's go! Head around the south end of the island and you'll notice that that
one door doesn't have an electric barrier around it! Get up to it and tap it to
open it, then start climbing. Go west, climb up to the next level, and the
volcano will start erupting! Keep going by going around the summit in a 
clockwise direction. Keep going when you see the Temple of Fire entrance and go
up another level. Open the chest for a Red Rupee, then head back to that temple
entrance. See the candles? Blow them out by blowing at the DS. No really, it
works. Once they're both blown out, head inside.

------------------------
TEMPLE OF FIRE
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Phew, this place is hot. Head north, dodging the flame walls. Once you reach a
fire bar, head east. Kill the Red ChuChu and jump across. Look at the map to
see that it outlines a path to take in the room just north of here. Draw down
the path on your map, then head south to get locked in a room of Keese that you
have to kill. Once they're all gone, open the chest for a small key. Go back
north, jump to the locked door, and open it. Now, using the path that you drew,
follow it along to prevent from falling down any trap doors. The chest along 
the way contains a Red Rupee if you want it. At the end, get in the middle of
the four switches and do a spin attack to hit them all. This opened the north
door back where the fire bar is, so backtrack there and head upstairs.

Head around, killing both ChuChus, and go over the blue blocks and hit the
switch. Now the red blocks will sink into the floor, but the blue blocks will
rise. Head back around again and take the winding path into the next room to
the south. Here, you'll have to fight Slimes. These Zol/Gel-like creatures hop
around in an attempt to attack you. The large ones split into smaller slimes
when hit, and the smaller slimes attempt to latch onto Link. Rub the stylus on
Link to get them off. Once they're all gone, a large chest will appear. Open it
to get the BOOMERANG! Awesome. You can use this item by first getting it out by
tapping the item on the upper right of the screen, then drawing a line from 
Link to an object. You can also just tap the object to have Link throw it then.
To have the Boomerang hit multiple objects in one throw, draw the line through
those objects. Pretty simple, even though it sounds complicated on text.

To test it out, activate the switch to the right by throwing the Boomerang at
it. This will get rid of the fire from the path leading west, so take that. You
will eventually reach some torches that spit fireballs at you. Avoid them and
quickly draw a line through the two switches on the left to lower the fire 
leading downstairs. Once successful...head down. Back down on the first floor,
you will notice blue blocks are blocking the way south, and a color switch in
an alcove. Don't pass the red blocks on the floor. Instead, take out the 
Boomerang and draw a line from Link around the corner to the switch. That way
you won't be trapped! Head south, but before you head into the next room, stop
at the gap to your left, take out the Boomerang, and draw a line from Link, 
past the gap and around the corner to the switch. This will lower the fire back
to the entrance. Yay for shortcuts! Now head south and you will have to face
Red Bubbles. Just use the Boomerang to stun them, then slash their hopping 
skulls. They can't be defeated any other way. Once they're gone, head upstairs.

Up here, kill the Fire Keese using the Boomerang, move south past the fire 
bars, and pull the lever there. Now head back up and jump to the east side. 
Kill Fire Keese there, and if that was the last one, a chest will appear. Open
it for a Red Rupee. Now head south and pull the other lever to open a door back
on the west side. Get back over there and head through to find another key-
holding Rat. Just stand just outside the door and draw a curvy line around the
room and hope that it hits the Rat. Go inside and pick up the small key, jump
back across, and head east. Throw the Boomerang at the color switch, then 
approach the north cautiously with your shield up (just slash to bring it out)
and kill the constantly-spitting Octorok. Get to the place where the Octorok 
was, and throw the Boomerang back at the color switch from here by drawing a 
line curving around the west corner. Open the locked door and head upstairs.

Up here, go around, killing the Slimes, and head the only way south that you 
can. Dodge the fire bar and read the map on the wall at the end. It tells you 
the order of switches to hit in the northeast room on this floor. Write that
down on your map, then head back north. Blow out the candles to gain access to
that room. Take out the Boomerang and draw a line starting from the first 
switch, and draw it through the other switches in order. A small key will 
appear on a platform to your north. Use the Boomerang to retrieve it. Head back
south and take the western south path. Open the locked door and continue on to
spot the boss gate. We're nearly there! Continue west to get into a room with
Yellow ChuChus and Fire Keese, along with a fireball-spitting torch. Geez, the
Legend of Zelda NES memories are returning...kill the enemies and the torch 
will go out as well, the door to the north opening.

Head through there and kill the Red Bubbles in the circle corridor to lower the
flames to the north. Head to that northwest room and step on the switch to 
light a torch. Light the other torches by throwing the Boomerang at that torch
to put it aflame, and make it fly through the other torches. This lowers the
flame wall leading to the Boss Key in the center. Go back south, and stop at
the gap. Throw the Boomerang from you to the switch around the corner to bring
up the missing floor. Avoid the fire bar and head north to the large chest,
which contains the Boss Key! Now instead of being like the other games, this 
time you have to physically carry the Boss Key to the boss gate. This task 
becomes increasingly difficult with each temple. Just backtrack to the boss
gate and tap the gate to throw the key in. Head upstairs. You're at the room
just before the boss! If you wish to do other things, read the left stone sign
to make a blue portal appear, which takes you to the beginning of the temple.
Otherwise, head upstairs again to face the boss...

-----------
BOSS: Blaaz, Master of Fire
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss seems threatening, but is not really that much of an issue. He will
first appear in his normal form, then split into three smaller versions of 
himself. Your objective is to throw the Boomerang at each of them with one 
throw to combine him back to normal. However, there has to be a specific order
in which to target them. How? Look at the top screen. See the horns on the 
three guys? The single-horned one has to be targeted first with the Boomerang,
then the two-horned, then the three-horned. Simple. Be quick with this though,
as they will surround Link and attempt to throw fireballs at him. Once Blaaz is
combined into normal, let him have it with furious sword strikes. Once he's
damaged enough, he'll make flaming boulders drop on the arena. Just be cautious
and keep slashing him. At one point, he'll start warping around frantically. 
You can get hits on him if you Boomerang him to stun him.

After a bit, he may split up again. Just do the same thing on him as before to
bring him back to normal, and slash him until he's dead.
-----------

After Blaaz is defeated, he'll turn into sand and float up through the ceiling.
Then, a mysterious light appears...it's another fairy like Ciela! This is Leaf,
Spirit of Power. This red fairy is one of three that you need to collect. Once
he's gotten, a large chest and a blue portal will appear. Open the chest for a
much needed Heart Container! Now you have four hearts. Take the portal out of
here.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 0
Wisdom: 0
Courage: 0

TREASURE MAPS: 0

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 1

Total Health: 4 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||       Deep Temple Exploring        ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
So now that you've cleared the temple, it's time to head for Astrid. Talking to
her reveals that you need to go back to the Temple of the Ocean King on Mercay
Island, the island you started on. Fair enough. She also gives you a Power Gem!
Nice. So, let's meet up with Linebeck back at the dock, board the ship, and set
a course for Mercay Island. Once on the island, head straight to the Temple of
the Ocean King. There's nothing new in your path that you should worry about.
Once inside, you'll be stopped by a voice...it's none other than Linebeck. He
tells you that you shouldn't push yourself so hard, otherwise you just won't
make it. Good advice I guess. Then Oshus comes in and tells you about a sacred
item that will protect you from the curse in this temple as you dive further
into it...and it's up on that pedestal above the temple entrance! Climb up the
stairs and approach the item, and you will watch a scene...

The hourglass-like item will float in front of Link. He looks at it carefully,
and a surge of sand appears from the ground! Is that the sand that came from
Blaaz? Suddenly the sand "explodes" and stays still in the air. Oshus demands
that Link take the hourglass. Once Link touches it, the sand surges into the
hourglass... You got the PHANTOM HOURGLASS! The golden sand that is in this
sacred item protects you for as long as sand is in the top end of the hourglass
when flipped. When the sand runs out, the curse will affect you and start 
draining your life. The sand can only be "refilled" if the Hourglass is exposed
to the light of the sun, so you need to exit the temple.

After that explanation is over, go back down the stairs and take the entrance
into the temple. The Phantom Hourglass will flip over...you have 10 minutes!

------------------------
TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Current objective: Find the Northwestern Sea Chart.

-----------
Main Floor
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You may notice that while you're standing on the purple spaces (called "safe
zones") that the sand in the Hourglass will not drain. It is only when you're
exposed to the curse in the air when the Hourglass will count down. Leaf, the
Spirit of Power tells you this, and also tells you that the door ahead adorned
with his symbol is your objective. Head over there and tap the door. Using 
Leaf's power, the door will open, allowing you to explore further down...so do
so.

-----------
Floor B1
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Walk out of the safe zone and two Phantoms will appear throughout the room. 
Leaf will explain that these Phantoms cannot be killed, so stealth is required
to get past them. They follow a set path, so observe them and adjust your 
timing and path accordingly. The yellow transparent cone next to their icons on
the top screen shows where they're currently facing, not necessarily their line
of vision. They can spot you even if you're not in their yellow cone of vision.

Once that's noted, the locked door to go further down is on the upper right,
while the key you need is on the upper left. Head to that locked door to find a
switch. Hit it and a torch on the south end of the room will light. Quickly 
move over there without getting spotted, and use the Boomerang to fly it to the
lit torch, then over to the unlit torch in one throw. Doing so will lower the
fire blocking the west path. Find a safe zone and wait until it's safe, and go
north up the west path into the safe zone in the middle. Wait for the Phantom 
to pass, and go over to the key to find that a door is blocking the way. Go 
east to find a switch to step on. Do so and that door will open. Hurry there 
and grab the small key. Now simply head back to the locked door, open it, and
go down.

-----------
Floor B2
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Phantoms can also detect sound, so be quiet unless you want to distract a 
Phantom. In this case, you do. There's a Phantom that is sitting still nearby,
and only switches the direction he's looking at. He's guarding a lever that 
needs to be pulled. So what to do? Well, when he isn't looking, head south to
see a switch. Hit it, and the sound will make the Phantom curious. Watch where
he's going and go around the other way. Quickly pull the lever and get to a 
safe zone. That lever lowered a fire barrier to the rest of the room.

There is another switch that you must press in close time from that first one
you hit. Just hide from the Phantom's vision and hit the switches with the
Boomerang to be silent. When both switches are hit in quick succession, a small
key appears in the (somewhat) middle of the room that must be accessed from the
south side. So, go south out of this little area, then west. There's another
fire barrier. Throw the Boomerang at the switch on the other side to lower the
fire, and start heading to the east end from the south side of the room. Once
at the end of the path, you'll see a floor switch. Stand on it to lower the
spikes to the small key. Stay on the switch though, as it's pressure-sensitive.
Retrieve the key with your Boomerang. Now head to the locked door that you
undoubtedly have seen before and open it. You can use the color switch to lower
the red blocks as a form of a shortcut.

-----------
Floor B3
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This is the last floor we need to explore for now. Your objective here is
different from the usual "find key to open locked door." This time, you have to
find three Force Gems and physically carry them to the big Triforce-like 
pedestal on the upper-right of the room. The way to that altar is blocked with 
fire if spotted here, so...don't get spotted. The first Force Gem is just 
northwest of here. Go counter-clockwise around here (or wait for the Phantom to 
pass) and open the chest that's in the safe zone for this Force Gem. You may 
have noticed a yellow pot along the way. These things contain extra seconds for 
the Phantom Hourglass, and they usually contain 30 extra seconds, so make sure 
to break 'em. At any rate, take the Force Gem to that pedestal and throw it
onto one of the triangles (tap away from Link) to make it merge into the 
ground.

The second one is held in a chest on the bottom right of the room. First off,
leave the pedestal from the right and approach the south ledge. Throw the 
Boomerang around the corner to the switch to turn off the spikes below. Now 
head south and open the chest for another Force Gem. Take that to the pedestal.
The last Force Gem is behind a locked door on the lower left of the room. 
According to the top screen, one of the Phantoms is holding the small key. Wait
in a safe zone that the Phantom passes by, and throw the Boomerang at it as it
passes. It will drop the key and continue on after looking around. Grab the 
small key then head to that door. There's a lever farther left that when 
pulled, unblocks the entrance to that upper platform on the lower right. That
platform has floor switches that make trap doors on the floor fall open when
stepped on. You can humorously make Phantoms fall right down the pits with 
this. This is also the way to deal with later Phantoms that pick anything they
drop back up in their possession.

At any rate, open the locked door and take the Force Gem. Take it back to the
pedestal and deposit that, and the door ahead will open up. Head through and 
you will end up in a room that doesn't have the cursed fog! Yay, we're safe for
now, and the Hourglass stopped. There's another special door here, but you 
can't open it. Instead, head east then north to find a big chest. Open it for
the Northwestern Sea Chart! Awesome. ...It has dust on it though. Oh well, 
let's get out of here. Thankfully, a blue portal appears nearby. Take that to
return to the temple entrance. Once that's done, head outside.
------------------------

Phew, that was a bit cumbersome. Either way, we can explore more of the world
now, so head back to Linebeck's ship. Someone on the pier will call out to you,
but you can ignore him if you wish. He just lets you know about a cannon, if
your ship has one, which it doesn't, so there. Talk to Linebeck and you will 
show him the map. He has no idea how to work the map, especially because there
is dust on it. So, blow off the dust by blowing at the DS. Blow at it enough 
and the dust will be cleared. (And you'll also be a bit dizzy...) Board the
ship and chart a course to the northwestern sea by drawing the route to the 
north end of the screen.

Just before you reach the new part of the sea, a tornado sweeps you away, 
preventing you from reaching the new sea from that direction. Okay. There's
another way to go though. See the gap between the lines of rock on the map?
Chart a course through there then up to the north into the next sea. Sailing
along that...you'll find that there are still some rocks that need to be 
blasted away. Curses! Hm...there IS one other island here that we can reach...
it's that smaller circular one. Plot a course and dock there. Once there, enter
the house, after the Postman introduces himself. The guy inside the house tells
you that they don't currently have any cannons for sale, but Master Eddo is 
currently making one and he should be done soon. Cool. Problem is, you'll have
to traverse the island's hazards just to reach him. Not cool.

Head out of the house and the door to the rest of the island will be opened, so
head through there, killing the Red ChuChus. Eventually you'll see a beehive.
Slash it until it falls, then kill all the Bees. Or ignore it. You'll notice a 
path leading east into the small forest. Go there and open the chest for a
Treasure Map! This shows sunken treasure that's in the sea. Unfortunately you
have no way of salvaging sunken treasure right now. It's a good thing that once
you have the map, it shows a red X where the treasure is until you salvage it
though.

Continue along the main path now, you will eventually enter a cave. Once inside
the cave, kill the Rats in the way, and pick up a bomb flower by tapping it.
Throw it at the rocks blocking the way forward to clear them, then pick up
another bomb flower. Quickly carry it east and throw it over the fence at the
rock. If it breaks, then great! Push the block that the rock was next to into
the "corral" thing. Now, for a little bonus, grab the bomb flower, quickly head
out of the "corral" and continue east to find a cracked wall. Throw the bomb at
the wall to blow it open. Head inside the new room and open the chest for 
another Power Gem! Head back into the "corral" and go north. Pull the block out
as far as it can go, then pull the block left as far as it can go. Head back
through the corridor, pull the next block out, then pull it north to allow 
access forward.

Kill the Rats, then go back and grab the bomb flower. Carry it through the path
you just cleared and place the bomb at the rock in the way. Once it's blown 
away, you can exit the cave to return outside. Phew. Ignore the Rats if 
possible and use the bomb flowers to blow away the rocks on the dirt path, and
the rocks to the south. Head past the latter rocks and open the chest for a Red
Rupee. Head east along the dirt path to find more rocks. Use a bomb flower. Go
down the stairs. Now, here's something that made me curious...the very first 
tree you come across after going down the stairs...if you roll into it, what
seems like a large Red Rupee falls from it, but it falls into the ocean. If you
can get this somehow, let me know, and if it's really a large Red Rupee or just
a Red Rupee. (Someone by the name of Jak emailed me about this. He said he was
able to grab it, and it is indeed a Large Red Rupee, worth 200 Rupees. Thanks
much, Jak!)

At any rate, keep going along the path (have to remove boulders from the path)
until you come to some bombable rocks. Now, this is a little tricky. Backtrack
until you're where some bomb flowers are. Take one of the bomb flowers on the
very north ledge, drop down, and go east. You're on the wrong side of the 
fence, but it's necessary. Throw the bomb over the fence at the rocks to blow
them up. Now go back around like before and it's a simple hop, skip, and jump 
to Master Eddo. Inside, he says he finished his cannon, but is asking a heavy
price for it. Think you can afford it? Get ready...it's a wallet-burning, huge,
whopping, so-big-you'll-forfeit-your-limbs amount of......50 Rupees. Go ahead 
and pay for the cannon. Yipee, you now got Eddo's Cannon! Linebeck will put it
on the ship right away. Just exit the house using the door on the left.

Huh? Mail already? Oh, I guess it's just mail from the Postmaster telling you
more about the Postman. Yeah yeah, let's just get out of here. But first, you
will have to sign your name. Doesn't matter what you put down, just as long as
it's something. This will be for any special packages you get. Ship out with
Linebeck. Plot the same course as before, but when you get to the rocks, stop
the engine and shoot down the rocks by tapping on them. Tapping anywhere on the
screen activates the cannon. Once past the rock wall, you'll spot the Ghost 
Ship! No need to plot a new course, just need to be heading to the northwestern
sea. Wait, why is there so much fog?

Regardless, we're hot on the Ghost Ship's trail! Once on the new sea, chart a
course straight up, as that's the path the Ghost Ship is going to follow. Make
sure to destroy any explosive barrels that come along with the cannon. 
Eventually the fog will get extremely thick that you cannot see anything, and 
you will end up back where you started on the Northwestern Sea. We can't head
forward...there must be something we can do. Backtrack to the Southwestern Sea.
Hm...maybe that island on this side of the sea has something! Plot a course to
Molida Island and dock there. Careful of the Mini Cyclones and barrels in the
way. Just shoot them down (yes, even the Mini Cyclones...two cannon shots 
completely take care of them).

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (10 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 2
Wisdom: 0
Courage: 0

TREASURE MAPS: 1

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 1

Total Health: 4 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||           Slight of Wind           ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
After docking, Linebeck will talk to you. Deny his asking if you want to sail
off, as this place is important. At any rate, talk to the villagers and read 
the stone signs to find that someone else tried to go through the fog to the
Northwestern Sea, and hasn't been seen since...*gulp*

At any rate, if you enter the second hut, you'll find a chest. Open it for some
Treasure! Also, you may have some mail at the Postbox. It's just a letter from
Astrid telling you that if you have no idea what to do next, you can go to her
and she'll tell you. Enter the very last hut to find Romanos. Talk to him and
say that you're going your own way to the Isle of Gust. He'll get angry and 
tell you to get lost. Well! I've never been treated like that before! I'll just
leave then! Let's go. ...Wait, he's calling us back? Oh boy...talk to him 
again, and he apologizes for letting off on you. Okay...he also gives us 
permission to explore the cave by his hut. 'k. Exit.

Enter the cave. The woman out there will tell you not to go in there, but will
find out Romanos let you in...so head in. In the cave, follow the path while
killing the Red ChuChus, and hop across to the east. Go north at the end and a
River Zora will appear from the water. This enemy is a large humanoid fish that
can shoot fireballs from its mouth, and has a crude shield and a large sword.
You will have to hit them from behind or on their sides. The best thing to do
against these guys is to throw the Boomerang in such a way that it hits their
back, stunning them. Then get behind and let loose with sword slashes until it
dies. A door past the small bridge will open, revealing an entrance to another
part of the cave. Head through there.

Kill the Octoroks in the way, and emerge back in the first cave room, next to a
bomb flower. Just west of where you are is a cracked wall and two Keese. Use a
bomb flower to blow open that wall and head inside. Open the chest in this 
hidden room to get the SHOVEL! Now you can dig up treasures hidden within the
ground! Read the journal on the table to find out there's a second hideaway, 
and it's located in the area where the lines drawn between the stone tablets on
the island intersect. We saw a couple already! Before leaving the room, spot 
the weird section of dirt here? Equip the Shovel and dig it up to find a large
Green Rupee! 100 Rupees, awesome. Now exit. Head west and go up the stairs back
out of the cave. There's another stone tablet. Mark it down on your map, then
head left to find a chest. Open it from the side to get Treasure! Now follow 
the path around to find the fourth stone tablet on a ledge in town. Mark that,
then drop down. Dig the weird section of dirt near the palm tree to get another
100 Rupees!

Go around the town and mark down the other two, then draw a line from the 
southern tablet to the northern one, then a line connecting the other two. Hm, 
the lines seem to intersect somewhere behind the second house. Dig in front of
the palm tree to find a secret cave. Drop down. If you read the journal, you'll
learn that Romanos's dad (the Wayfarer) is sorry for all the hardship he put 
his family through. Huh, Romanos needs to hear this. First off though, open the
chest here to get a Treasure Map! Now look at the map on the wall to spot the
path you need to take through the fog! Awesome. Bring up the northwestern sea
chart and trace that path. Now let's exit. Follow the path out, killing the
Yellow ChuChus in the way, and you will spot a specially marked locked door.
Ciela suggests you write it down on your map somewhere. A sun symbol on Molida
Island from your sea chart seems appropriate. (Also, put an arrow where the dig
place is to reach this after removing the lines.) Continue and you'll find you
are back in the large cave. Nice. Take the south exit, head back to the ship
and set sail off of this island. (If you want to, you can talk to Romano to 
let him know of what you read on that journal.)

BUT, before we move on, let's do a couple of things now that we have the 
Shovel. Once at sea, chart a course to the Traveler's Ship to the south and 
board it. You'll find that the ship is infested with Miniblins! Kill them, then
talk to the guy on the ground three times. Turns out he was playing dead to try 
to fool the Miniblins. This guy is Nyave, and he gives out Treasure whenever 
you rescue him from the Miniblins. How much Treasure he gives out at once is
determined either by how far you went in the game before you get to him again,
or how much time has passed on the DS clock since the last visit. Get back on
your ship and sail east a bit to spot an island that's not on your chart. Dock
there.

Ah, Spirit Island. This is where we go when we have enough of one type of gem.
(Power Gems, Wisdom Gems, Courage Gems) There's not much we can do here other
than open the chest that's out here for a Courage Gem. Get back in your ship
and chart a course to Mercay Island. Get back to where Oshus's house is and
approach the cave beside his house. See the lone tree there? Dig in front of
the tree using the Shovel to reveal a Treasure Map! Take it. Head back to town
and enter the shop. Buy the Power Gem there for 500 Rupees. Get back to your 
ship and sail to Isle of Ember. Head inside Astrid's house and go to the 
basement. See the two cracked spots on the ground? Dig those up to get a Red
Rupee and a Treasure Map! Now exit the house and start climbing the mountain 
until you reach the Temple of Fire entrance. There is a lone patch of grass on
the east side of the mountain up here. Dig in that spot to find another 
Treasure Map! Don't worry, we'll be able to salvage all this treasure soon.

Get back to your ship. We're finally traversing the fog! Chart a course by 
tracing the drawn path, then dock at the Isle of Gust. Let's get busy. First 
up, head north and kill the Miniblins, then continue from the southeastern side
of this ledge. Hop along the little islets here when the wind isn't blowing to
get to the other side. Head north to get to a little area where you need to use
the wind to jump across to the center of the island. However, drop down to the
lower ground and kill the Miniblins. See the cracked wall? Place a bomb flower
there to blow it open, and head inside. Open the chest that's there for a 
Courage Gem! The journal there is from none other than the Wayfarer himself 
from Molida Island. The map beside it just points out some hidden islands (Xs)
and the arrow points to the island that the Wayfarer is currently residing at.
Exit the cave, go back up a level, and when the wind blows, use it to jump 
across two ledges.

Kill the Miniblins and dig the cracked spots of ground for Red Rupees if you 
want. Head into the cave around here. Follow the path, killing Miniblins along
the way, until you get to a large room filled with Miniblins. Kill them all and
a chest will appear alongside the existing one. Open them for a Wisdom Gem and
a Treasure Map! Exit this cave using the south exit. Back outside, head east,
kill the Red ChuChus, and get carried up using the wind holes. Up here, before
jumping west with the wind blowing, find the dig spot within the big patch of
grass here and dig there to get 100 Rupees! Now jump west from the north end of
this ledge when the wind is blowing to get across, then kill the Miniblins. Go
down the sets of stairs, then head north where the tiles are to the next 
"screen." Look at the map to find something marked on the northwest of the 
island. Mark that down on your map, then head back south. Get up on the left
ledge using the wind, head north. Follow the path around and back south to end
up in an area with filled up holes.

If you head west of this little area, you'll find a small ledge with a chest
on it. Dig up the filled hole next to it and use the wind to take you up there.
Open the chest for a Power Gem! Jump off to the right and you will spot another
filled hole next to a ledge leading north. Dig that, take the wind up, kill the
Red ChuChus, and head into the next "screen." Here, ignore the wind on the east
side of the fence. Instead, dig up the filled hole next by and take that wind.
Continue north to find some wind blocking the way left. Fill up the hole just
as if you're digging it up. Head left and take the wind up. Go down the stairs
to see a cracked portion of the ground. Dig it up for 100 Rupees! Now, down
here, take the first gust of wind to the ledge on the north. Up here is a stone
tablet telling of certain windmills that need to be blown, and the map beside
it shows those windmills. Mark those down.

Jump back down, and fill in those wind holes. Continue on and you will be in
some weird-looking sand. Tread lightly here, as Sandworms may pop out to eat
you. Head east, avoiding the Sandworms. Now head south all the way until you 
see a chest. Open it for another Treasure Map! Now, go to the windmills marked
on your map, and blow at the DS to make the windmills move. Do this for each so
that they're all spinning, and the doors to the rest of the island from here 
will open. Take either, and head towards the entrance of the Temple of Wind in
the very center of this island.

------------------------
TEMPLE OF WIND
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Yay, more wind we have to deal with. Head north past the wind when it's clear,
and you'll see a gap with bomb flowers on the other side, and a bomb flower on
your side. Pick up that bomb flower and throw it over the gap between the two
groups of bomb flowers. This will cause a chain reaction and the two switches
on the other side will be activated simultaneously, creating a bridge to cross
the gap. Up here, kill the Red ChuChus and push the block so that it blocks the
first wind gust. Pass, and hit the switch to turn off the other wind gust. Go
east up the stairs, then south along a bridge, back down stairs. Down here, 
kill the Red ChuChus and touch open the south door. Pass it and step on the 
floor switch to open the door next to you, which leads to the exit of this 
temple. Yay for shortcuts again.

Go up the stairs here, being aware of Keese, and pass the perilous bridge while
being watchful of wind gusts that may push you off. Once at the other side, go
through the door to the north to face four Ropes. Kill them to move on. Collect
all the Rupees in the next room, then continue by pushing the block west. In
this sandy room (no, there's no Sandworms here) kill the Ropes and go to the
northwest end. In the adjacent room, push the wind gust machine along the tiles
on the floor to the end, then use the wind gust to jump west across the gap.
Step on the switch to lower a door for a shortcut to here, and go downstairs.

Once down here, you'll be trapped in a room seemingly filled with only rocks.
Well, get near some of them and they come to life! These are Rock ChuChus, and
you first have to blast off their rocky helmets using the bomb flowers around
here before slashing them. Kill all of the Rock ChuChus and continue on. After
some stair climbing, you'll get to a rather large room with Miniblins scattered
about. Kill them all if you want, and find a floor switch around the center of
the room. Step on it to open a door on the south side. Climb up the stairs 
behind that door and have the wind carry you north to a chest. Open it for a
Courage Gem! Go back around where you were and drop down to the little ledge on 
the north that has a pushable block. Push that block onto the third wind gust
from the southern-most one, then have the wind carry you onto that block. Walk
east onto a new place in this floor. Follow the path to go downstairs.

This room is nothing but sand, so beware of Sandworms. Thankfully, there are
bits of rocky paths that Sandworms can't dig through, so you're safe on those
paths. To get out of the corner you end up in, just use a bomb flower on the
cracked wall. Make your way to the central altar to find a map. Look at it to
find it has X-marked some spots on this floor, and says something about pillars
of wind. Mark those spots down on your map. Now head west from here until you
see a chest within sand against the west wall. Tread carefully over there and
open the chest for a Power Gem! Now, go to each of the spots marked on your map
and dig up the filled holes located there to release those pillars of wind. 
Once all of them are dug up, two doors will open up, one on the southwest end,
and one on the north. Let's take the southwest door up a floor.

Go through, kill the Red ChuChu, up the stairs, and across a bridge to spot a
wind gust machine here that needs to be pulled so it blows on the windmill on
the middle ledge. Once that's done, head back through that door to return to 
the sand room, and go to the north side and take that door, through the 
entrance in the wall. Blast open the obstruction with a bomb flower, then head
downstairs. Go across the bridge to see another wind gust machine that needs to
be pushed to be in line with a windmill on the center ledge. With both 
windmills turning, a small key will appear below. Drop down and pick it up. Now
to head back to the sand room. First of all, get on the south end of the ledge
with the wind gust holes on the floor, and go down the east stairs, continuing
east to find a chest. Open it for Treasure. Now just head back to the sand room
the same way as you did the first time. I'm sure you remember.

Once back there, head straight north to the locked door on the northeast side
of the room, and open it. A large chest is sitting on an altar. Open it for the
BOMBS! Finally! Equip your bombs. Now, before we do anything else, bomb around
the wall west of the north door. You will eventually come across a weak wall 
that gets blown open. Head inside and you will have 100 Rupees! Get back to the
sand room and head to the northwest side to find a cracked wall. Blow it open
with a Bomb and head through. Inside, throw a bomb at the wind gust on the 
floor and it will float at the obstruction on the ledge above and blow it up.
Take the wind up and go upstairs. Now, here, go east along the path and kill 
the Red ChuChus in the way, then go back. Throw a bomb at the wind gust on the
floor and run east. That bomb will get blown up onto the ledge right beside the
line of bomb flowers and create a chain reaction to hit the switch on the upper
ledge. This lowers the door at the end where you are temporarily, so head 
through.

Head along the path and kill the Rock ChuChus, then bomb the wall that has 
tiles in front of it. Go through the blasted wall and take the path down while
taking care of more Red ChuChus (why are they so common?) and touch open the
door. Go upstairs. Kill the two Rock ChuChus here, then bomb the north wall 
where you see tiles on the other side. Go through and follow the path until you
see two rows of bomb flowers. Place two bombs, one beside each row, and the
chain reactions should activate the two switches to open the door to the Boss
Key, so pick it up from the large chest! Drop down to the west to be near the
boss door. Place the key somewhere, and throw a bomb at the wind gust to let it
destroy the obstruction. Grab the key, take the wind up, and throw the key onto
the boss gate! Head upstairs.

In this hall, just fight the wind and touch open the door when you come to it.
Read the stone tablet to make a blue portal appear if you wish to do something
before the boss, but either way head up the stairs.

-----------
BOSS: Cyclok, Stirrer of Winds
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss looks very much like an Octorok that rides a cyclone of wind. In 
fact, its design may be based off of the statue that guards Gale Isle in Wind
Waker. At any rate, Cyclok has a total of two attacks. He will either dive bomb
down at you (walk away to avoid), or send small cyclones down to damage you. 
The way to damage Cyclok is to watch the floor. The shadow tells you where 
Cyclok is. Now, there are three points on the ground where a small cyclone 
stirs up. Go to that cyclone, and wait for Cyclok to get above that. Throw a
bomb into the cyclone and it should fly up and hit Cyclok, knocking him down.
Get to him and slash him until he gets up again.

Note that when sending bombs to Cyclok, the bomb itself doesn't have to hit 
him, as long as he's in range of the bomb's blast, he'll still get knocked 
down. It usually takes about four or five attempts of the same strategy before
he finally dies.
-----------

Cyclok will turn into grains of sand...Link holds forth the Phantom Hourglass,
and the sand surges into the hourglass. Two minutes have been added! Not only
that, but a shining light will appear from the ground. It's yet another fairy!
This is Neri, Spirit of Wisdom! Hurray, you got the next spirit! A large chest
and a blue portal will also appear. Open the chest for a new Heart Container!
Yay for five hearts. Take the portal out of the temple.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (12 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (10)

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power
Spirit of Wisdom

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 5
Wisdom: 1
Courage: 3

TREASURE MAPS: 7

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 2

Total Health: 5 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||      Deeper Temple Exploring       ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Head back to your ship. Now, we are supposed to head back to Mercay Island, but
we can do a couple of things right now. So set sail northeast to Bannan Island.
Here, kill all the ChuChus and Ropes (or ignore them) and head towards the 
single house on this island. Before entering it, use the Shovel to dig the spot
just left of the sign in front of the house to nab a Treasure Map! Now enter
the house. Talk to him to know of a "mermaid" that he wishes to catch. He even
has a pool in the house for this mermaid if he catches it, and tells you to 
tell him if you see one. Alright, will do. For now, start heading back to your
ship, but take a detour and enter the cave.

Follow the winding path and blast open the cracked wall. Follow the rest of the
cave while avoiding Keese to end up on the other side of the island. Oh hey! 
It's Salvatore from Wind Waker! He's hosting a Cannon Game. This minigame has
you sailing along a set course while blasting down targets. Blue targets give
you 100 points and are one shot only. Red targets, when shot, only give you 20
points, but they never break, so it's possible to get more points from one red
target than you can from a single blue target! Your objective is to beat the
record of 2500 points. Aside from those tips, I can't really say much anything
else about the game, so go out there and do some damage! If you manage to beat
the score mark, you get a Bomb Bag upgrade! It doesn't matter which chest you
pick. However, every other time you play, each chest will have a random 
Treasure or Ship Part. Beating your record gives you a Rupee prize, usually a
Red Rupee. Also, now that you played this, wait a day later (literally, or just
set your DS clock a day later) and a letter from Salvatore will arrive in the
mail. Packaged with it is a Wisdom Gem!

So now that you can carry 20 Bombs, let's leave this island. Sail towards the
north side of this sea, towards the X that you (presumably) drew there. You 
should find an island there. Dock at this Zauz's Island. This little hidden
island actually becomes important to the plot later, but I won't spoil exactly
why. At any rate, approach the house that's on the center ledge, and pick up a
Cucco. Get out of the fenced-in area, but stay on the ledge. Jump off on the
east side to end up on a smaller ledge. Open the chest for a Wisdom Gem! Now,
go to the north end of this island to find a stone tablet. This says to find 
the four stone tiles on the island, then connect the eastern stone tiles 
together with a line, doing the same for the western stone tiles. Now, keep 
drawing those lines southward until the two connect. Go to that area and start
digging around, you'll find a Treasure Map! It's somewhere just a bit south of
the dirt path. Exit the island, and sail to the other X you presumably drew on
the Sea chart to find another island. Dock there.

This is Uncharted Island. Since it's uncharted, that means nothing but sea 
shows up on the top screen. No land whatsoever! So it's up to you to draw out
the island...if you want to. Either way, go around the island and clear out all
the enemies. Now, in case you didn't draw out the island (which is time-
consuming, so I don't blame you if you didn't) the island is in the shape of a
whale. With that in mind, head to the island's "eye" and use the Shovel to dig
in front of the Gossip Stone to get a Treasure Map! Now, head to the center of
the island where an unreachable cave entrance behind some some water is. Hit 
the nearby Gossip Stone and it will tell you to hit the Gossip Stones in a 
particular order...but his phrase is slightly encrypted. "It steers with 
rudder, then makes spray! And thid, it paddles, then sees a way!" So, the first
one to hit is the one on the island's tail. The next is the one that's on the
island's "water spout" formation. Third one is on the island's fin on the 
bottom, and the last is the island's "eye"!

With all of the Gossip Stones hit in that correct order, access to the cave at
the middle of the island will be made available, so head inside that cave! 
Inside, go down the stairs and into the entrance. Inside, approach the end of
the ledge and a giant golden frog will appear! This creature is the Golden 
Chief, Cylos! ...And why does he look like Cyclos in Wind Waker? Did he paint
himself golden? Ah well. After he learns of your journey, he gives you the 
CYCLONE SLATE. If you're familiar with Wind Waker, think of this is another 
version of the Ballad of Gales. If not, this Cyclone Slate will transport you
to a part of the Great Sea depending on the symbol you draw. How do you know
what symbols to draw? Well, if you come across Golden Frogs during your sailing
travels, shoot them down with cannon bombs. These Golden Frogs will then show
you the symbol that you need to draw to warp to that frog's location, so when
you do this, make sure to draw down the symbol needed on your Sea Chart! Let's
exit this island.

There's one Golden Frog on this part of the Great Sea, and it's somewhere 
southwest of Bannan Island. So look for it and get its symbol, then set a 
course for the Traveler's Ship to the south. Once you approach the ship, it
looks a tad familiar to Wind Waker fans...the boat is called the Prince of Red
Lions, an obvious reference to Link's boat in Wind Waker, the King of Red 
Lions. And the guy there, Nyeve, dresses like Link as well. Talk to him and 
humor him to become his apprentice. Talk to him again and he will ask if you
wish to train with your sword. Agree and hit him enough times and he will give
you some Treasure. Exit his ship and dock back on it to continue sword 
training. Eventually, he will warm up to your strikes and will be able to take
more. Keep re-docking at his ship to do more sword training until you are able
to hit him 100 times. Do so, and he will give you a Heart Container! Sweet! Now
leave his boat, and set a course for Beedle's Ship. If the Beedle Ship icon is
helmeted, don't set a course there yet. We just need to go to a regular Beedle
shop. Buy the Wisdom Gem there for 500 Rupees. No matter how many Rupees you 
have, don't buy anything else, as you'll need the money for something more 
important later. Also, Beedle will give you a Customer Card to put points on 
it. Unlike the one in Wind Waker, you don't simply get one point for just any
item you buy. Rather, the more valuable the item is, the more points you get.
For example, the Wisdom Gem you just bought gave you 5 points on your card. Get
20 points to acquire Silver Membership. But anyway...

Finally, sail back to the Southwestern Sea and dock at Mercay Island. Once 
there, head back to Oshus's house and talk to him. He'll give you a Power Gem!
Now start heading towards the Temple of the Ocean King. Along the way though,
remember that tree that you rolled into to get a large Green Rupee? Well, bomb
the walls of the ledge to the left of the tree to find a weak wall portion that
gets blasted open. Head in. Inside, follow the cave until you come out the 
other side. You'll end up at the small islet adjacent to the main island! Step
on the floor switch you see here to extend a bridge from here back to the main
island. Now climb up and you'll see a hippie up here named Freedle. Now I won't
go too in-depth with this, but this is where you go if you wish to trade items
with people on your online Friends List. The items can be Treasure or Ship 
Parts. Of more interest though, is the chest a bit to the east of Freedle. Open
it to grab a Wisdom Gem! Get off this island and continue on to the Temple of
the Ocean King, but be on the lookout for a cracked wall along the way. (Bomb
the rocks blocking the top of one of the stairs for a tiny shortcut.)

Bomb this cracked wall to reveal a cave, and head inside. Inside this cave, 
kill the Rats and hop along the platforms over the water to end up at a chest.
Open it for a Power Gem! Exit the cave now and enter the Temple of the Ocean
King completely.

------------------------
TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Current objective: Find the Southeastern Sea Chart?

-----------
Main Floor
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You now have 12 minutes to reach your next destination! Just head downstairs. 
Nothing important.

-----------
Floor B1
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Same puzzle as before, get the small key on the upper left end to unlock the
door on the upper right. However, now that you have Bombs, you don't need to do
that one torch-lighting thing with the Boomerang. Just head over to the locked
door and bomb the blockade. Voila, instant access to the floor switch that 
opens the door to the small key!

-----------
Floor B2
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Down here, you don't have to distract that Phantom with noise anymore. Head
straight south and you'll notice that the wall on your south is cracked. Plant
a bomb on that part of the wall. Instant shortcut! Now, you remember how to
summon the small key, right? If not, you'll have to hit the two switches in the
area with the immobile Phantom, where you start off. Use the Boomerang so as 
not to make noise. Once the small key is summoned, stand on that floor switch
and retrieve the key with the Boomerang. Open the locked door, but now for a
tiny secret. Before going down to the next floor, observe the wall to the left
of the locked door, in the alcove. It's cracked. Plant a bomb there then head
into the safe zone to find a yellow pot to restore some sand. Also, there's a
bit more past here, but you can't reach it. It's for later. Go downstairs now.

-----------
Floor B3
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
None too different, just gather the three Force Gems and place them on the
pedestals. Remember that one of the Force Gems requires the small key that a
Phantom is holding. Some other notes in this room though. East of the place 
where you place the Force Gems is a yellow pot blocked by bombable 
obstructions. You know what to do with that. The southeast raised ledge with 
the floor switches that drop out trap doors on the floor can now be accessed by
digging a filled hole that produces wind.

Once all Force Gems are placed, head through the door. Touch the door with a
special marking and the Spirit of Wisdom will help open the door with her 
power. Head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B4
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Down here, you'll meet some new enemies: Phantom Eyes. These floating eyeball
monsters act as extra eyes for the Phantoms. If you get spotted, find a safe
zone quickly! The good thing about these Phantom Eyes is that they can be 
defeated! How to though if they spot you from all directions? Stun them with 
the Boomerang first, then go in for the kill. Easy. Now, first thing you must
do is go down the east side of this room to the next safe zone. South of you is
a wind gust machine. To turn it off, move up beside the wind gust and use the
Boomerang on the switch on the other side to turn it off. Now, a Phantom Eye is
just around the corner, so take it down with the Boomerang + Sword combo.

Observe the path that you need to take next. It's linear, considering the wind
gusts that block most of the paths. You'll end up in the northwestern side of
the room, so make sure you don't run into a Phantom in the path. Wait around a
corner for the north Phantom Eye and take it down. Get to a nearby safe zone
(red pot or otherwise) and take down the last Phantom Eye. I forgot to mention,
if you do get spotted by a Phantom Eye here, an extra Phantom will appear in 
the room. Not good. At any rate, once all the eyes are taken down, a large 
chest will appear on the east side of the room. We'll get to that in a second.

The southwest raised ledge here can be accessed by digging up the filled wind
hole. Hit the switch and all the wind gust machines will turn off! Free access
to the whole floor! Now you can head to that large chest and open it for a
Power Gem! Now from here, head straight west and keep an eye on the walls to 
your north that you pass. You should spot a crack in one of them. Bomb that and
enter the little nook here. Hit the switch and the spikes guarding the small 
key in the middle of the room will lower! Get over there and collect the small
key, then open the locked door on the south side. Go downstairs.

-----------
Floor B5
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Yippee, no Phantoms here! Phew. At any rate, head west past the intermittent
spikes, and stop when you see the gap. Throw the Boomerang at the switch across
the gap when the spikes are down to lower the spikes to the east permanently.
Head there for some extra time to your Phantom Hourglass. Continue along this
floor to a room filled with Yellow ChuChus. Take them down to be allowed access
further through, along with some extra time. Take that then head to the next
room, which has Miniblins. Kill them gain access to the last part of this 
floor, and some extra time. Once you passed the open door, throw the Boomerang
at the switch across the gap to the right to make a chest appear. Open it to 
get a free Red Potion! This also turns off the wind gust machine, so continue
and go downstairs.

-----------
Floor B6
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
In here, we must figure out the crest that we need to draw on the special red
door on the south end of this floor. Six stone tablets that tell you this crest
are on this floor as well, three on each side. The nearest stone tablet is the
top right, which is guarded by a Phantom Eye. Just kill it from where you 
start. Head to that tablet and it says it's the second one governing the crest.
Mark that one down with a "2" symbol. The middle tablet on this side has no
importance, so head south. The very southeast end of this floor has a switch 
that lowers spikes guarding this stone tablet. It's the fourth one, so mark 
that with a 4. Step on the nearby floor switch to turn off the wind gust 
machine, and make your way to the other side.

Whatever you do, do not read the middle tablet on the west side, as upon doing
so, it creates more Phantom Eyes to make it harder to navigate. Either way,
killing all the Phantom Eyes allows access to extra time on the west side. Use
bombs to blast away the obstruction from the lower left tablet. That tablet is
the third governing the crest, so mark that with a 3. The last one is obviously
the first one, but the crest also begins and ends with that one. If you want to
gain access to it anyway, go to the northwest end of the room, break the red 
pot for a little safe zone, and dig up the filled hole to reveal wind. Now take
out a bomb, and throw it at the hole when the wind just starts blowing. Timed
right, the bomb will blow up before wind stops, clearing the obstruction. Head
up there using the wind and hit the switch to lower the spikes to that last
tablet.

Now head to that red door on the south and tap it. You will have to draw the
sacred crest. Using the top screen as reference, start drawing at the "1" (top
left of the door) and draw the line to the top right, then bottom left, then 
bottom right, then the top left again. Yep, the sacred crest was an hourglass
figure. The door will open, so head on through. In this room, we will discover
a sun emblem on the wall on an altar. Approach the emblem to find a map 
engraved on it. Huh...it looks like an upside-down version of our Southwestern
Sea Chart. Wait a minute...bring that chart up. So...we have to press this
engraving on the wall with our sea chart...how do we do that? Well, we can't do
anything physically, so let's just close the DS. Why? Just do it. Open it up
and...

OMGWTFBBQ! HAX! That emblem on the engraving is now on our sea chart! So, Ciela
has no idea what to do at this point, so she begrudgingly suggests that 
Linebeck may be able to know about this emblem that points at the middle of the
sea. A blue portal appears, so take that out of the Temple.
------------------------

Head back to Linebeck. You may have something in the mail. It's from Eddo on
Cannon Island. He's prepared a Salvage Arm and says that the first person to 
get to him gets it! Oh boy. Also, the guy in green on the dock may call you.
He just asks if you have the Salvage Arm. Just to humor him, say yes, and he
will offer to sell you a Treasure Map for a mere 50 Rupees. Do it! Talk to 
Linebeck, and he will simply surmise that we should sail to that emblem on your
Sea Chart, and we should find something. Some help he is... Before sailing off,
check the shipyard (the house on the dock) to find a chest inside. Open it to
snag a Ship Part! You can use these Ship Parts here at this place to customize
Linebeck's ship. For more information, see the Ship Parts section. Now head out
to sea.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (12 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (20)

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power
Spirit of Wisdom

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 8
Wisdom: 5 (if you got Salvatore's letter, 4 if not)
Courage: 3

TREASURE MAPS: 11

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 3

Total Health: 6 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||        Courageous Salvaging        ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Now that we're at sea again, let's ignore that emblem at sea for now, and 
instead set a course for Isle of Ember. Yeah, again. Talk to Astrid at her 
house and you will get a Wisdom Gem for clearing the Temple of Wind! (You must
say "yes" when you talk to her.) Now, set a course for Cannon Island. Talk to
Eddo at the house. Thankfully, you don't have to traverse the whole island
again. Just enter the front door and the door to Eddo's room will be open. Talk
to him and he will sell it to you...but the price is determined by how much you
want it. How do you let him know? Make as much noise as you can! ...No 
seriously. You might want to wait on this thing so that you're alone, since you
need to yell fairly loud to get a low price. If he can barely hear you, he 
won't sell it to you. The highest price is 1000 Rupees. Ouch. The lowest he can
go is 300 Rupees, I believe. That's much better. If you can go lower, let me
know. I usually just whistle and it gives me that result. So yeah, if you don't
have 300 Rupees...what have you been spending it on!?

At any case, if you have the Salvage Arm, let's leave the island. Oh yeah, if
you talk to Eddo's assistant after getting the Salvage Arm, he says that you
could've just snapped your fingers. Now, I don't know if I'm just bad at 
snapping my fingers, but that does not work for me. Loud whistling works better 
anyhow. Set sail to that emblem at sea, bring up Menu, and select Salvage.
Linebeck tells you the controls, so go ahead and start salvaging. Just guide 
the Salvage Arm through the traps and obstacles (while collecting the Rupees in
bubbles if you wish), but be careful to not let the hand itself hit anything.
Once the chest is salvaged, Link will open it to find the SUN KEY!

Before using this Key, let's go ahead and salvage the treasures from the 
Treasure Maps that we got. All those X's are starting to ugly up the sea 
charts. Yep, both charts that we've got now. You'll get a mess of ship parts,
two new minutes of the Sand of Hours for your Phantom Hourglass, and some 
Treasure/Rupees. There's one treasure we can't get yet, and it's behind Bannan
Island. We'll get that later. Now, there are two Golden Frogs in the 
Southwestern Sea. One is south of Mercay Island, and the other is northwest of
Molida Island. Head back to Bannan Island once you've done all that salvaging.
Kill all the enemies here (don't go into the cave) otherwise the "mermaid" 
won't show herself. Once you do, keep a lookout for her. She'll appear in 
various spots in the water. Hit her with the Boomerang and talk to her. She 
says she'll visit the Old Wayfarer. So go talk to him.

Huh, she's not here. Talk to him anyway. He thinks you are tricking him, but he
says that this mermaid may have mistaken him for another man...Linebeck!? No
way...head to Linebeck and talk to him. Sure enough, she mistook him for the
Old Wayfarer, but she's nowhere to be seen. Head back to the Wayfarer 
and...Hey! She's there! Talk to him and as thanks, he'll give you a FISHING 
ROD. This special item can only be used when you're at sea, and only when your
boat is over a shadow of a fish on the sea chart. Unlike ships, you can't 
"dock" at these fish shadows, so you'll have to be sailing along and quickly
select "Fish" when you're on the shadow.

***To learn the basics of fishing, once you've cast your line, hold the stylus 
below Link to pull up on the rod. If the line is at an angle, move the stylus
accordingly. Like, if the line is leaning on the right side, have the stylus 
below Link and a little to his left. Reel in by making small rapid circles on
Link with the stylus. To hook fish, you'll have to hold the rod up. Once a fish
is hooked, the stress of the line will be determined by a meter on the left of
either screen. The closer it is to red, the closer the line is to breaking. To
keep the line from breaking, pull on the rod and quit reeling. When the fish 
jumps, quit pulling the rod or reeling in, otherwise the hook may come loose 
and the fish will escape. Don't worry, the game will tell you when the fish 
will jump. I hope those tips were enough!***

After fishing for each kind of fish, return to the Wayfarer and he will reward
you for each new fish type that you catch. The fish that you have caught will
appear on the Collection screen. (Left arrow on the touch screen.) But at any
rate, that's all we're gonna do, so for now, whenever you see a shadow fish 
icon on the sea chart, do some fishing until you get a Loovar. But for now, in
the meantime, head to Molida Island along the way. Just keep fishing until you
get that Loovar while I tell you where to go. Once you get to Molida Island, a
giant creature will emerge from the seas! Chart a long course so that you go
back and forth so as to avoid this creature's attacks, which is basically 
shooting green spike balls at you. You can shoot down the balls. Its weak point
is the eye. When you see the eye, shoot him. Keep doing this until he's dead,
and you will automatically dock at Molida Island. Go back to that one place and
dig up the hole by the palm tree that should be marked on your map, and head
through the path underground to find the door for the Sun Key. Use that Key to
open it, then head on through back outside.

As soon as you walk outside, you should see a cracked part of the ground. Dig
in that spot to reveal a hole. Fall down and you will find a chest. Open it for
a Wisdom Gem! Now follow this path and head back outside to find you were just
where you left off! Continue down the path, killing all sorts of ChuChus. You
will eventually spot something on a ledge. Keep going and go up some stairs.
Look west up here to see a statue. Hit it with the Boomerang and a laser will
shoot out from it, onto the door to the Temple of Courage. We need to find two
other statues similar to this one. Approach the Temple of Courage and head east
from it to deal with some Takkuri birds. You will eventually reach a similar
statue. Strike it to make a laser shoot from it, then tap it. Touch the 
appropriate arrow to rotate it until it faces the Temple of Courage's door. 
Keep going to face two River Zoras. Kill them both (might be a bit difficult)
to make the last statue appear. Strike it then make it face the temple to open
the door to that temple. Head over there and enter...

------------------------
TEMPLE OF COURAGE
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Geez man, as soon as you enter this temple, it looks like you have a crap load
of stuff to do. Thankfully, despite its looks, it's still fairly linear. Head
forward and wait for the spiked log to start moving north. Follow it and duck
into the alcove. Wait for the log to pass and keep moving north. Another spiked
log. Quickly get around the corner. Now, observe the north wall. There's one
part of the floor against the wall that is a tad lighter than the rest. This
same spot has a tunnel behind the wall. Bomb this spot to blow open the weak
wall, and head in to find a chest. Open it for some Treasure! Head back south,
and past the next spiked log. Beware of the Blade Trap. Lure it out then head
through the opening it was in. Continue south along the path until you come 
around and to a floor switch. Stand on it to lower a door. Another shortcut, 
yay. Go up on the middle ledge to find a chest that contains a small key! Hop
down and use it on the locked door to the upper right of this room. Follow the
revealed path to a room that you get locked in. You'll have to fight two 
Moldorms! Just hit them until they decide to turn around, and hit their weak
red ends. These creepy crawlers will eventually die and you'll gain access to a
lower floor. Go downstairs.

Huh, this floor is a bit scary. Nothing but a bottomless pit. Still a linear
path here however. Take floating platforms to the west. Avoid or strike the
Hardhat Beetle until it falls off, and keep going. You may spot a color switch
to your north. Hit that with the Boomerang before you go back upstairs. Up 
here, kill the Slimes and avoid the electric Winder along the walls. You'll see
that some red blocks are lowered. See why you had to hit that color switch? At
any rate, the two stone tablets have important things to say, including the
right one, which says that up, down, right, left is the order for the whole
dungeon. Now, before heading east, place a bomb between the two stone tablets
to blast open a weak wall. Head in and open the chests for a Power Gem and a
ship part. If you look at the map, you'll see that there's a "path" to take in
the floor below you. Write that down on your B1 map. Now continue through the
floor, killing the cowardly Green ChuChus with spin attacks. Move south in this
room with two raised ledges and step on the switch to open the door to the exit
of this temple. Now, get on the ledge to face a Pols Voice, a weird yellow blob
with whiskers and rabbit ears. He's pretty much undefeatable...unless he hears
loud noise. Yep, snap your fingers or whistle and the Pols Voice will cower.
Slash him and he will be defeated. Man, haven't faced those things in a while,
eh?

At any rate, he dropped a small key. Use to open the locked door to the north.
Head upstairs. Welcome to a small enclosed maze with Winders and Beamos! There
are four levers you must pull in this maze, one on each of the compass 
directions. Wait, what did that stone tablet say? Up, down, right, left...pull
the levers in that order to make a chest appear in the center of the maze. Head
there and open it for a square crystal. Carry it back downstairs. Head to the
first raised ledge and place the crystal on the pedestal to open another door 
to the door. Head through that to downstairs. Ah, that part with the path that
you had to draw. Follow it while avoiding the Hardhat Beetles (though it's 
easier to knock them off), but stop when you're aligned with a small platform
to the south. Walk south (it's a hidden path) onto the platform and open the
chest (you can open it from this side) for 100 Rupees! Now continue following
that path to the end, where a large chest is. Open it for the BOW AND ARROW!

Equip this item and fire an arrow at the eye switch. This will make a bridge
extend to another platform to the south. Follow it, kill the Moldorm (easily
with arrows now) and strike the weird gem until it faces east. Fire an arrow at
it, and it will shoot the same arrow east until it hits that color switch. Go
upstairs. Aha, blue blocks have been lowered. Kill the Moldorms here and you'll
find another square pedestal. We need that square crystal. Head east and shoot
an arrow at the eye switch across the gap to lower a door to that square 
crystal. Go grab it and bring it back to the other pedestal and place it there.
A door leading upstairs here will open. Take it. Up here, kill all the Octoroks
(including the ones across the southern gap using arrows) and a bridge to the
north will extend to the east, connecting to another room. Take it and wait for
a platform.

Get on it, and get on the next platform at the south. Keep your bow ready, and
shoot an arrow north at a just-offscreen eye switch. Keep taking platforms east
and shoot another arrow at an eye switch on the other side. Both switches shot,
a chest will appear at the north center ledge. Take a platform there and open
it for a Power Gem. Take the platforms east back on solid ground. Pass the 
Blade Traps quickly, then with the Beamos there, jump across the west gap and
bomb the obstruction in the way. Head back to the Beamos and jump across the
east gap and push the block south when the Blade Trap is on the right. Go back
and jump across the west gap. Push the block east until you can access a new
hall. Go through that, open the chest for Treasure, and go downstairs. Down 
here, follow the Winders cautiously, and step on the switch at the end to open
a shortcut door. You can now get here from the entrance of the temple easily.
Yippee. Head downstairs.

Take a platform east, then a platform north while using the Boomerang to light
all the torches along the way. Doing so will lower the spikes to allow access 
to the ledge on the north. Knock down the Hardhat Beetles, then find the gem to
the west. Use the Boomerang to hit it until it faces west, then shoot an arrow
at it. You'll hit the color switch. Before heading through the lowered red 
blocks, hit the gem with the Boomerang until it faces north. Fire an arrow at 
it to hit a eye switch, making a chest appear on the ledge you're on. Open it
for a Wisdom Gem! Now head north upstairs. Up here, you'll face another Pols
Voice. Kill it like you did the other one and grab the small key it drops, 
using it to unlock the locked door. Head upstairs.

This is a weird puzzle here. The block here follows the line that you draw on
the map. There are four eye switches here, one on each compass direction. Ah,
that stone tablet's puzzle solution. Draw a path so that the block travels past
the north eye switch, then the south, then the right, then the left. You have 
to pass the southern sides of these eye switches or you can't shoot them. Once
shot in the correct order, a large chest will appear back where you came 
upstairs here. Erase your current path and take the path back to that ledge and
open the chest for the Boss Key! Now, place the key beside you and erase the
path you have now, replacing it with one that takes you to the boss door on the
southwest side. Pick up the Key and get on the block and let it carry you 
there. Throw the Key at the door and head upstairs.

In this room, read the stone tablet to make a blue portal appear in case you
want to leave. Now, before heading upstairs for the boss, go behind the stairs
to find a cracked wall. Blast it open with a bomb and open the chest for a 
Courage Gem! Now head upstairs to the boss.

-----------
BOSS: Crayk, Bane of Courage
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Now this is a bit of a unique boss. This giant enemy crab is invisible, so 
you'll have to do a little bit before you attack its weakpoint for massive 
damage. Crayk's viewpoint is on the top screen, so wherever it's facing, 
you'll see. If Link is getting larger on that top screen, that means you need 
to get out of wherever you're standing, or it'll grab you and squeeze the life
out of you. If that happens, rub the stylus on the touch screen to shake off.
Your objective is to shoot an arrow at Crayk when it's charging at you. This
will turn it visible. Start slashing the purple spots below its shell. If all
are popped, Crayk's shell will break open.

Begin phase two. Crayk's weakpoint is now exposed! To gain easy access to it,
shoot Crayk in the eye with an arrow to stun it, then go behind Crayk and slash
the weakpoint, which is the tail. If you run out of arrows, the little crabs
that crawl around almost always drop arrows for you if defeated. Eventually,
Crayk will crumble.
-----------

As usual, the boss will turn into grains of golden sand, and will surge into
your Phantom Hourglass, adding two minutes to it. A mystic light appears...and
its...Ceila? Wait, what? The Spirit of Courage looks just like Ciela...but it
looks lifeless. What's going on here? Meh...grab the Heart Container from the 
chest that appears, and take the blue portal out of the temple. I hope we 
weren't too late...

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (16 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (20)
Quiver (20)

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power
Spirit of Wisdom
Spirit of Courage?
Sun Key

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 10
Wisdom: 8
Courage: 4

TREASURE MAPS: 11

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 4

Total Health: 7 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||          Ghost Ship Rescue         ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Now that we got the Spirit of Courage (supposedly), let's head back to 
Linebeck. Along the way though, stop at Romanos's hut. Assuming you talked to
him before after getting the Shovel from way back, he should have an archery
game open. For 20 Rupees, see if you can beat 1700 points. The key to winning
this game is to shoot at the monster targets without missing. If you use one
arrow on each target and they all hit, a consecutive hit bonus will raise. This
helps you get the big points. Just don't hit the kid targets, those take away
points plus reset the consecutive hit bonus you built up. Now, this game is
pretty hard, so don't be surprised if you're nowhere near the needed score on
your first try. If you manage to beat 1700 points, you'll get the Big Quiver,
which allows you to hold 30 arrows. Try again and attempt to beat the 2000 
point mark. If successful, you get a Heart Container! Schweet. As a note, 
beating the 2000 mark any other times after this results in getting a ship 
part, USUALLY a golden one.

Once both prizes are gotten, head to Linebeck and a scene will commence. Hey,
what is Oshus doing here? Oshus tells Ciela that she's no ordinary fairy, but
that she is in fact a spirit. Woah. The spirit that we freed is actually the
embodiment of Ciela's powers. Oshus commences the process to merge Ciela with
her powers. She is now the actual Spirit of Courage! Yay! Now that the spirits
have reunited, they all focus their powers...Ciela hears Tetra calling out for
Link! We need to rescue her! Ciela tells you that her and the other spirits 
will help you find the Ghost Ship that is hiding in that fog. Link 
automatically boards the ship. Linebeck starts to follow, but then turns around
and asks Oshus exactly who he is...but Oshus is still being silent about that.
Okay old man. Let's set sail!

Before we sail north to that fog, dock at Spirit Island. We have 10 Power Gems,
so we're gonna make use of them. Along the way, depending on your luck, you may
have Jolene, a Gerudo pirate, try to tangle with you. You have to jump her 
torpedos, but eventually (unless it's random) the ship's engine goes dead, and
she boards your ship. You'll have to sword fight with Jolene. Simply dodge her
charge attack, then strike her back. Eventually you two will clash swords, so
rub the stylus on the screen to break her grip. She gives up and goes back to
your ship, and Linebeck emerges from the box he was hiding in. He gives you a
Blue Rupee for taking care of her. Don't worry actually, the more times you
fight off Jolene when she boards your ship, the larger the reward he gives is.
So anyway, set course again for Spirit Island. (If you didn't encounter Jolene,
then keep this paragraph in mind for when you do see her.)

Once on Spirit Island, head inside the cave. Touch open the door and head up to
the fountain. Tell the invisible guardian that you wish to present Power Gems.
Since you have enough, the Spirit of Power will be powered up! Open up the 
Collection screen and tap the Spirit of Power to "equip" him. Leaf will 
basically replace Ciela in all places except for cutscenes now. With Leaf 
equipped, you have twice the attack power for your sword. Nice, seems like that
would be extremely useful. Commence leaving Spirit Island now. If you met 
Jolene like I have, there's a chance you may have a letter from her in the 
mail. Turns out the letter is for Joanne, her sister on Bannan Island. The 
postman gives you the letter to deliver to Joanne. We'll do that a bit later.
You may also have a letter from Romanos, which has a ship part packaged with 
it. Right now, sail straight north into the fog.

Once you reach the Northwestern Sea, chart a course straight north. Eventually
the ship's engine will fail. This is where the spirits come into play! Link 
will keep the ship chugging along. Use the spirits as a guide, and steer the
ship left or right by pressing the respective edges of the touch screen. When
you're ready to go, tap "GO". When the spirits are flashing wildly, that means
you're in track of the Ghost Ship! Eventually, after dodging a lot of stuff,
you'll see the Ghost Ship and board it.

------------------------
GHOST SHIP
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Yeah, this is a kind of dungeon/temple level. Head down into the bowels of the
ship, but there are some Keese congregating on the north end of the ship, and
they carry Rupees for the most part. Down here, head west until you have to 
fight Poes. Just slash them or hit them with arrows from afar and the blue fire
will lower from the path to the north, and from the alcove where a little girl
is hiding. Talk to the girl to find out that she's one of the Cubus Sisters.
Wait, Cubus? ...As in succubus? Doesn't sound too good... At any rate, she 
tells you to look for her sisters and escort them back to her. Time for a 
little fetch quest I suppose. Head up north, and when you get to spikes in the
way, throw the Boomerang north through the small opening and hit the switch. 
Now follow the winding path infested with Skulltulas and Poes (some 
intermittent spikes can be taken down permanently by hitting another switch) 
and jump across to a larger part of the floor when you're "blocked" by blue
fire. Head south and around, and hit the switch to lower some spikes forward 
and as a shortcut. Open the chest for the triangle crystal!

Carry it over to that triangle pedestal you saw that's near the blue fire to
lower them. This is for the Cubus Sisters to cross. Now head back to that 
chest, and enter the north room to find a Cubus Sister! It's your job now to
escort her to the west end. Now, she's deathly afraid of Skulltulas, so she'll
scream if she sees one. In fact, all the Cubus Sisters are afraid of 
Skulltulas. Also, they don't walk as fast as Link can, so keep slow. If she's
off-screen for more than a few seconds, she'll scream as well. Why this? Well,
you'll see later. Just for now, escort the pretty lady to the west end by way
of the winding path on the north. Be wary of Skulltulas that drop down. Finally
you'll meet up with the first sister.

Now, go back along the winding path and go downstairs. Huh...what are safe 
zones doing here? Step out of the one you're on and...HOLY SH--, it's a 
Reapling! Those things are damn scary. They're basically just like the Phantoms
from the Temple of the Ocean King. What's scary about them? They go through 
walls. Yeah. So anyway, the only way to go is east. Wait for the spikes to go
down and pass them. Keep going and beware the Reapling. Now, something I forgot
to mention...Reaplings CAN hear, so if a Cubus Sister screams...yeah. Once you
get to the Cubus Sister, talk to her to get her to follow you. Hit the switch
to lower ALL the spikes in this floor. When you walk out of her safe zone, she
will tell you that treasure rests to the right, and that you should pick the
left chest. I don't exactly trust her, so pick the right chest. You'll get a
Yellow Potion! Drink this to restore all hearts. Awesome. If you picked the
left chest first, you will get a 10 Rupoor (lose 10 Rupees), a second Reapling
to appear, and the other chest will be unavailable. Yeah.

At any rate, take the Cubus Sister upstairs while avoiding Reaplings. There is
a chest in the middle of this floor though. Open it for the Round Crystal. Take
this upstairs too. Remember, if you get caught by a Reapling, hide in a safe
zone. And make sure the Cubus Sister is in a safe zone too, because if she gets
captured, you'll have to go back to where you found her. Once you're upstairs,
place the crystal onto the round pedestal nearby to get rid of the blue fire,
and head that way. You may see a chest on a ledge in the corner. Just jump over
there and open it for Treasure. Be vigilant of Skulltulas like always, and take
her to the others. Afterwards, head back downstairs to the first Reapling 
floor, then head west and downstairs to the next floor.

Head east until you get trapped in a room. Kill all the Skulltulas there and
head north. Go west when you can and hit the switch in the safe zone to open 
the spikes to the steel barrel storage room, and make a Reapling appear. Yikes.
Don't go back though, there's just a trap door in the way of the storage room.
You will have to enter from the north. There's another safe zone northwest from
here. Get there to find a stone tablet, and it tells you a cryptic order of 
which levers to pull in the correct order, which is 2 4 5 1 3. Now, some people
get confused by this. You'd think that you pull the second lever from the
left first, then the fourth from the left, etc....but that's not how it works. 
Instead, you pull the fourth from the left lever first, then the very left, 
then the very right, then second from left, then middle. Get it?

Doing this will lower the north spikes to the storage room. THAT's the entrance
you need to take. So get there and start picking up and throwing barrels in
that room until you see a switch on the floor. Step on it and blue fire to the
west will unblock a path to the last Cubus Sister. Yay! Now, go up and around 
to the west while avoiding the Reapling (he can see through walls too, so don't
try to distract him with sound) and you should see a chest along the way. Open
it for a giant Red Rupee, which is worth 200 Rupees! Holy crap, nice. Keep 
going to see a row of barrels. One of them is shaking. Lift that barrel to find
the Cubus Sister! Have her go with you like always, just be very careful of the
Skulltulas. Remember, if she screams when she sees one, that Reapling will be
on your ass. She tells you that whatever you do, to not hit them on their 
backs. We'll do the exact opposite actually, because Reaplings get stunned for
a while if they are hit at their backs. No matter how many times you strike 
though, they still can't be defeated. Just take her all the way upstairs with
hopefully no hitches (also forgot to mention, if they get left offscreen, you
will have to talk to them again to get them to follow you) and the Cubus 
Sisters will turn into little demons and challenge you to a game of Dead Man's
Volley. I knew those witches were evil!

-----------
BOSS: The Diabolical Cubus Sisters
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss is actually fairly simple, but requires vigilance. Three of the Cubus
will fire constant laser streams in front of them, limiting your movement. The
fourth Cubus will fire one of two projectiles. If it's a solid energy 
projectile, slash it. If it's a special projectile with four energy balls in 
it, you can't slash it, so avoid it. When that projectile hits the wall behind
you, it will split into four smaller projectiles northward, in an attempt to
hit you.

Anyway, once the regular energy projectile is slashed, it reflects back to the
Cubus who fired it. She will then either volley it over to one of her sisters
or back at you. Keep doing this until the projectile finally hits either you
or one of them. It takes two of these energy projectiles to kill each Cubus
Sister. Once three of them are defeated, the last one will fire three kinds of
energy projectiles, one of them being the solid one. Just play a little ping
pong until she finally gets hit. Kill her to win! Of course. But where's Tetra?
-----------

For defeating them, you get the GHOST KEY! Hm, maybe we need to use this to get
to Tetra? A large chest appears, including a blue portal. Pick up the Heart
Container from the chest and exit this little arena to go back in B1 of the
Ghost Ship. Head downstairs, since that's where the Ghost Key door is. Head 
over there, open it, and go upstairs. Watch the scene. It's a bit long and it
contains major spoilers, so yeah.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (16 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (20)
Quiver (30)

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Wisdom
Spirit of Courage
Sun Key
Ghost Key

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 10
Wisdom: 8
Courage: 4

TREASURE MAPS: 11

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 6

Total Health: 9 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||      Deepest Temple Exploring      ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
After that major cutscene is over with (and a few laughs from Linebeck's 
shenanigans), talk to Linebeck at your ship to sail off. We need to go to 
Zauz's Island. We actually just went there before, so head off towards the
island. Also, the fog that perpetuated this part of the Northwestern Sea is 
finally gone! Yay! Once on the island, head into Zauz's house and talk to him.
He will tell you that in order to defeat Bellum, we need the Phantom Sword. He
doesn't have one forged already, so we'll have to gather the three pure metals
in order to forge this sacred sword. He says that in the Temple of the Ocean
King, there was a door where you had to draw a crest of an hourglass. Well, if
we draw the Triforce on the door instead, something special will happen! So, 
it's off to Temple of the Ocean King.

Instead of warping near Mercay Island, sail south from Zauz's Island to behind
the Isle of Gust to find some Battleships. Let the main one board your ship. 
For fending off the Miniblin pirates, Linebeck will give you a Courage Gem for
your troubles! Nice. Stop at the Beedle shop here. Chances are that you got a 
lot of Rupees now (I had over 2000) so we can spend it on the last Bomb Bag 
upgrade that he has. This purchase also gave you 10 points. 5 more and you can 
gain Silver Membership! Now sail to Bannan Island. Remember that letter? Yeah.
Head inside the Wayfarer's house and talk to Joanne in the pool to give her the
letter. As thanks for delivering the letter to her, she gives you what you've
always wanted from a girl...huh? No, not that! A Wisdom Gem! Also, you may have
a letter from Linebeck, with a ship part packaged with it.

So yeah. All that said and done, head to Mercay Island, over to the Temple of
the Ocean King again. Along the way though, enter that cave that was a cracked
wall before. (Same "screen" as the Temple.) Inside the cave, go back to where
the opened chest is and shoot the eye switch with an arrow. This will extend a
bridge south. Take it and fight the River Zora. Go outside. Here, ignore the
eye switch and go around this higher ledge and you will eventually reach two 
chests above the port town. Open them for 100 Rupees and a ship part! At any 
rate, you probably noticed the statue you passed by. Pointing it towards the 
temple with its laser out points to where that weak wall was that you bombed 
earlier. That's how you were able to find it. Head through that cave anyway.
(I have no idea what the eye switch up there is for.) In the middle of the 
bridge, look around with the Boomerang to spot a switch to the south. Hit it 
and a chest will appear. Go and open it for a Courage Gem! Backtrack and 
completely enter the Temple of the Ocean King now.

------------------------
TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Current objective: Find alternate path to continue down to the bottom.

-----------
Main Floor
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You have 16 minutes! Again, just head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B1
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Instead of regular Phantoms, they are replaced with Swift Phantoms. As you can
tell, they're faster than regular Phantoms. Other than that difference, just 
use the same strategy as you did during your second run-through of this floor.

-----------
Floor B2
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
The patrolling Phantom to the south is replaced with a Swift Phantom yet again,
but the immobile one is still a normal Phantom. Use the same strategy as your
last run.

-----------
Floor B3
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Swift Phantoms yet again. Gather the Force Gems like on your last run. This is
a bit different though. Swift Phantoms pick up anything they dropped before, or
anything that's just lying on the floor. So you can't use the Boomerang trick 
to get that small key, as he'll just pick it right back up. This time you will
have to use the trap door strategy. While you're up on that lower-right ledge,
shoot the eye switch to the north to make a large chest appear by the area 
where you drop off the Force Gems. Head there quickly and open the chest for a
Power Gem! Now drop off the rest of the Force Gems or head through the door to
the next room if you have already. Downstairs to the next floor.

-----------
Floor B4
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Again, Swift Phantom here. Consider all the rooms with Phantoms replaced with
Swift Phantoms actually. The wind gusts are back to block your way like before.
You have no need to kill the Phantom Eyes, since you got the treasure from 
killing them. From the entrance, head east and stop at the gap to your north. 
Fire an arrow at the eye switch across from there to turn off all the wind gust
machines. Yippee! =D

Use the same strategy as before to get the small key to be able to go further
down.

-----------
Floor B5
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Nothing changed here. Just head through the floor, killing enemies to continue,
and go to the next floor. Remember about summoning the chest to the north by
hitting that switch across the gap on the northeast end if you want a free 
potion. Keep in mind that the enemy types changed on this floor.

-----------
Floor B6
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Okay. From the entrance, go a little left and stop at the gap. Shoot the eye
switch across that gap to make a large chest appear. Head over there and open
it for a new Treasure Map! Now head over to that red crested door on the south
end. Time to draw the Triforce in one stroke without overlapping any lines. 
Here's how to do it...

   /\    Draw the left line all the way first, then form the left triangle.
  /__\   Draw the middle line and start drawing the right triangle from its
 /\  /\  left side, just like with the left triangle. Finally, just draw the
/  \/  \ rest of the Triforce with that last remaining right line.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Enter the door when it opens, and you'll find yourself in a completely 
different room! Neat. Ciela says that it's her time to shine now, with the 
Courage door right in front of you. As you head there, the spirit of the fallen
adventurer here will call to you. He will create a yellow portal and say that
this is pretty much a midway point. Enter it to return to the entrance of the
Temple, with the time left on your Hourglass saved. If you want to return to 
this room, just step into the yellow portal from the Temple's entrance room and
you will start off with the time you had left. Go ahead and do so if you have
fairly good time. (A good time would be above 10 minutes left.) Head back to
the room and touch that door to open it with Ciela's power. Go downstairs.

-----------
Floor B7
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
New floor here. You'll end up being greeted by a bottomless pit. Take the 
platform that comes along and ride the series of platforms. There are things in
the wall which can fire arrows at you, so have your shield out and face them to
automatically block the arrows. You will land on a strange floor...it makes 
noise when you run on it! That means bad news if a Phantom is nearby. To avoid
detection, just walk instead of run when a Phantom is near. At any rate, there
is a Swift Phantom guarding the way downstairs on this side, and a Swift 
Phantom on the other side guarding...the other side. A regular Phantom sits
watch at the southeastern corner of the floor, and he constantly looks at both
ways. Yeah, kinda tight security huh? For now, just head downstairs from this
side, there's no way to get over to the other side from this floor.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
There's a Swift Phantom guarding the lower parts of both sides of the floor, 
and a regular Phantom guarding the other half. A single Swift Phantom guards 
the upper right side of this floor. You will notice that the first Swift 
Phantom mentioned crosses the gap by simply walking over it. It's not because
it's of the enemy's magic, it's because there's an invisible path there. Look
at the edge on this side with the Boomerang to find two odd panels on the 
other side. These mark where the path is. So cross it and go upstairs.

-----------
Floor B7
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Back on the other side of this floor now! Alright, here's the plan. That lone
Phantom is guarding a switch that we need to hit. Problem is, we'll likely get
caught if we do try to hit the switch as it is. To avoid this, wait until it's
clear, and head clock-wise around where you entered and you should find a red
pot. Pick it up, and when the Phantom isn't looking, throw it in front of you
and quickly get in the small safe zone. The Phantom should be startled by the
noise, but if you're quick enough, you won't be spotted. Now, from where you're
standing, if you're close enough, you can use the Boomerang to hit the switch
that the Phantom is guarding. Wait until the Swift Phantom here is on the north
side first though.

Once he is, hit the switch. Fire will lower at the north edge here, where it
would normally block your way to moving platforms. It's there temporarily 
though, so head there, wait for the moving platform and quickly take it. You 
may have to time this so that the moving platform is getting to where you are
when you hit the switch. Once on the moving platform, face east to block those
arrows, and get off on the north ledge to your left. Open the chest for the
round crystal! Now wait for a moving platform, and quickly move to the safe
zone across on the right. Also, for getting that crystal, the fire leading to
the upper part of this side of the floor is gone. Lay the crystal on the safe
zone for now, and hop on that little wooden pole. Use the Boomerang to hit the
switch to the south to make a large chest appear a bit south from here. Go 
there quickly and open the chest for another Power Gem! Take the crystal you
left behind and take it downstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Take the crystal with you across to the west side, and to the north end where
the normal Phantom is patrolling. In the safe zone that's at the end of the
noisy floor is a round pedestal. Place the crystal there and spikes leading
downstairs will lower. Take that.

-----------
Floor B9
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You're kinda blocked off from the rest of the floor, so open up the chest to 
get the triangle crystal. Take it back upstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Carry the crystal all the way to the east side, but not upstairs. Instead, take
it to the north end of this side. Specifically, where those yellow dots are on
the map. You'll find there's a triangle pedestal there, but it's blocked off.
Bomb away the obstruction and place the crystal there. Careful not to get 
spotted! Placing that crystal there will make spikes leading to a switch to get
lowered, and a large chest appearing seemingly in the middle of nowhere to the
north. You guessed it, hidden path there. Get up there and head south from 
where you see the chest to walk along the gap and open it for a Courage Gem!
Now go back and hit the switch that was behind those spikes to open the door to
the north. Head downstairs from there.

-----------
Floor B9
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Careful here, there are Wizzrobes that can steal your time from the Phantom
Hourglass. They appear as skulls on the map, so be cautious. It is advisable to
kill any you see though, as they drop 30 seconds of time each. Plus, you get
something for killing them all. Your main objective though is to snatch that
square crystal from the Swift Phantom. Head south and take care of the 
Wizzrobes that bother you, and walk left. You should see an eye switch in an
alcove that closes when you face it, so you can't hit it even if you use the
gem to make it point north then shoot it.

However...face away from the eye switch while north of the gem, and fire your
arrow. The eye switch will get hit, and spikes will lower to the west. Head to
that safe zone. Stepping on the switch makes a trap door open on the floor.
Perfect! Wait for the Swift Phantom to go over that and step on the switch. 
Yay! No more Swift Phantom! As a result of that enemy being eliminated though,
a chest appears to the west. Head over there and open it for a ship part! Now
pick up that square crystal and take it to the northwest end of the room. Place
it on the pedestal to lower the fire to upstairs. Your objective now is to take
the other two crystals down here. Before doing that, kill all the Wizzrobes to
make a large chest appear. Head there and open it for a Wisdom Gem! Now head
upstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
If you haven't stepped on the switch by the round crystal pedestal, do so. This
will create a wind gust to push you up onto the walls surrounding this little
area. Pick up the round crystal, which will raise the spikes. However, use the
wind gust on the floor to get upstairs. Place it at the large safe zone with
all the pedestals on the north end, then head back to floor B8 from the right
staircase. Take the triangle crystal and go back downstairs.

-----------
Floor B9
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Place the crystal inside that safe zone mentioned before, then go back to the
square crystal. Pick it up and take it to that safe zone. Now simply place each
crystal on their respective pedestals and the door will open. Head inside, and
open the chest on the altar to get the Southeastern Sea Chart! Awesome! Now, we
can exit the Temple if we want to, but while we're here, let's continue. This
will save us the backtracking. Only attempt if you're like above 5 minutes. But 
how do we continue? Well, talk to the spirit of the fallen adventurer here and 
he will tell you an order to place those crystals. Square, Round, Triangle. 
Okay. Exit this room, and the crystals will be out of their pedestals. Place 
the square one on its pedestal first, then the round, then the triangle. The 
door will open again, so head through. It's the same room, but an earthquake 
will happen... Head out...

-----------
Floor B10
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Hah, the next floor! There are new Phantom types here. These special yellow
Phantoms are Warp Phantoms. If you get spotted, they warp to your location.
Yikes! So head east and south when the east Warp Phantom passes the entrance,
and pass the intermittent spikes. Hit the switch to disable them, then 
continue. (There's a yellow pot on the small southeastern ledge.) Bomb the part
of the yellow wall where you see light shining on the ground, and head inside
the semi-maze. Break the red pot quickly and hide in the small safe zone, and
kill the Phantom Eye that passes. Continue around, hit the switch to disable
spikes to the west, and keep going. Dig up the filled hole to find a wind gust
that gets you out of here. Don't take it yet though.

Kill the Phantom Eye here, and hit the switch to disable the east spikes within
this little maze. Go back around and pass those spikes. Kill the last Phantom
Eye to make a large chest appear, but you cannot reach it. Not with your 
current equipment at any rate. Don't worry, we'll get it on another runthrough,
likely our last one. Now go around and step on the switch to disable the last
spikes, which leads to that wind gust you dug up. Take that and get into the 
raised safe zone on the northwest end to find a boulder. When the west Warp 
Phantom is in line, push the boulder south and watch it roll right into the
Warp Phantom and kill it, dropping its key in the process. Go and grab the key,
then go back in the maze, open the locked door, and continue down.

-----------
Floor B11
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Two Warp Phantoms here, and lots of Phantom Eyes. Kill the lower right Phantom
Eye from here, then go and kill the right Eye. Go along the left now and kill
those. For doing this, a large chest appears on the very northeast end of this
floor. Head over there and open the chest for...Treasure? Bleh. Pull the lever
nearby though to extend a bridge from the upper right raised ledge with the 
middle upper ledge. How to get up there? Well, just a second. Head to the 
northwest end to find another lever. Pull that to make a bridge connect the
upper left ledge with the midle. Now, to get up there, find the filled hole by
the middle ledge. Dig it up and use the wind gust to get up there, then cross
each bridge and step on the two switches.

Now for the other side. Go south from the northwest to find another filled hole
by the lower middle ledge. Dig it up and use the wind gust to get up there, 
then cross the bridge to the east to step on the switch. Now, jump down and hit
the switch on the southeast end to temporarily extend a bridge from the lower
middle ledge to the lower left ledge. Hurry to that wind gust, take it up, 
cross the bridge, and step on the switch. This will open the door guarding the
left down-staircase. Take that.

-----------
Floor B12
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Down here, you'll have to gather three Force Gems once again. Pull the lever
here to lower the spikes to the rest of the floor. Note that if you took the
other staircase, you couldn't go further in this floor. So yeah. Head up the
west side after killing the Phantom Eye, and find the red pot in the large 
northwest room and find a place to throw it for the safe zone...as when you get
the Force Gem from the chest here, a regular immobile Phantom that looks every
which way. So, pass him without looking, using that small safe zone for support
(if the Warp Phantom gets near) and take the Force Gem to the Triforce pedestal
on the north. Now for the second Force Gem. Head over to the northeast large
room, and kill the Phantom Eye in the way. Once at the northeast end, pick up
the red pot and place it at a good spot, then pick up the Force Gem. A Swift
Phantom will appear and patrol this little area. This is going to be hard, 
given the noise-creating sound. However, when you carry the Force Gem, you 
never walk fast enough to create sound that the Phantom can hear though. So
take it all the way back to that Triforce pedestal.

One more to go. You may have noticed that Wizzrobes appear every time you 
deposit a Force Gem. Kill them to make a large chest appear on the west side.
Go over there and open the chest for a ship part. Now, the last Force Gem is 
held by that Warp Phantom. We need to get it out of the way. This one seems 
like it might be tricky...but it's not. Just sneak up behind it and shoot an
arrow at its back. Unlike being hit with the Boomerang, an arrow stuns it for
a short while and it drops the Force Gem. Pick it up without any other Phantom
knowing, and quickly drop it off. Enter the door that opens.

-----------
Floor B13
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Last floor here, don't worry. Just head to the center of the floor and open the
large chest for the last sea chart! A blue portal will appear, so let's get out
of here, completely out!
------------------------

Phew, that was something. With this, we only need one more visit to this 
Temple, and that's for reaching Bellum when it's time. Just head back to the
port. Along the way, stop at the shop. The last quiver upgrade may be available
for purchase. If so, and you have the 1000 Rupees to buy it, do so. Don't worry
if you don't have enough Rupees, just keep the quiver upgrade in mind and buy
it when you can afford it. No other plot-related task in the game requires 
Rupees I believe. Alright, get on board the boat. Note that you may have some
mail in the Postbox. It's a letter from Joanne, and she packaged a ship part
with it.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (16 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (30)
Quiver (30)

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Wisdom
Spirit of Courage
Sun Key
Ghost Key

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 12
Wisdom: 10
Courage: 7

TREASURE MAPS: 12

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 6

Total Health: 9 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||        In Huge Goro-Trouble        ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Now that we have all of the sea charts, we can salvage that one treasure we
couldn't before. First up though, to salvage the treasure for the new map we
got. Warp to the Northwestern Sea and go to salvage it. You may have to fend 
off the pirate ships in the vicinity first. The main pirate ships that board 
you also drop treasure which needs to be salvaged, and is usually a ship part.
Now sail around the Great Sea to the Southeastern Sea. To pinpoint the Golden
Frogs, one is east of the largest isle, kind of in the middle, and the other
is by the isle surrounded by ice. Sail to the Northeastern Sea now. The single
Golden Frog is east of the rock barrier of the west island. Now sail from here
to the Northwestern Sea, and salvage the treasure. Since all seas are open now,
if you haven't already, work on catching a Loovar. Once it's captured, head 
back to Bannan Island and talk to the Wayfarer. He gives you a BIG CATCH LURE.
It's basically an upgrade to the Fishing Rod, so that you may catch bigger 
types of fish.

Go out and fish until you catch a Rusty Swordfish, then go back to the Wayfarer
and show it to him. He will give you a ship part for catching it. Now, time for
the ultimate catch...Neptoona. Neptoona hides in special swordfish-like fish
shadows. Find a swordfish shadow at sea and head there to start fishing. Note
that Rusty Swordfish are also found within these special fish shadows, so be
patient. Once you've got it, return to the Wayfarer and as a reward for being
such an avid fisherman, he will give you a Heart Container! Alright...before
heading on to the next temple, let's take care of a trading quest. First up,
board the Traveler's Ship in the Northeastern Sea. Inside this weirdly-
decorated ship, you'll have to fight Octoroks, ChuChus, and a River Zora. Kill 
the Blue ChuChu with arrows. After they're all taken care of, the Man of Smiles
will appear. Talk to him and he says that he's impressed of your skills, and
after being talked to, tell him you want a Mysterious thing. You get the Hero's
New Clothes! ...Wait, where are they? Alright...at any rate, since he's feeling
generous, he'll give you the normal thing as well...a Treasure Map! Yay. Go
ahead and exit his boat now.

Since you have a new Map, go ahead and salvage its treasure. Afterwards, go to
the Northwestern Sea and board the Traveler's Ship there. Yep, we're returning
to Nyeve. Talk to him and you will give him the Hero's New Clothes in exchange
for a Telescope! ...But it's actually a kaliedoscope. Let's take this Tele--I
mean kaliedoscope to the Traveler's Ship in the Southeastern Sea. It's the Ho-
Ho guys from Wind Waker! Talk to the only one without a telescope and you'll
give him that...scope item you have. In return, he'll give you a Guard 
Notebook. Exit the ship, and board the Nyave's Traveler's Ship on the 
Southwestern Sea. Defeat the enemies there, get whatever Treasure he gathered,
and you will also give him the Guard Notebook. As thanks, he'll give you the
Wood Heart.

While you're down here, stop at Spirit Island. Enter the cave, and choose to
upgrade the Spirit of Wisdom. With the Spirit of Wisdom equipped now, your
defense will double. Which means, you'll take half the damage you normally 
take. Also, in case you don't really want to use any of the spirits, just de-
equip the one you have equipped by tapping it again. Finally, the Spirit of 
Wisdom also powers up your shield, in that you can block attacks you normally
can't, like Beamos beams and fireballs from River Zoras. Leave the island and 
head to the Southeastern Sea once again to find two Traveler's Ships...which 
one to take? Well, that's up for you to figure out. One of them holds the Old 
Wayfarer, which is who we're looking for. Talk to him twice to give him the
Wood Heart. He scolds you, then eventually thanks you. But you get nothing in
return...attempt to leave, and he tells you that he left something valuable 
back at his house on Bannan Island. Alright, attempt to dock at that island and
that sea boss you faced a while ago will come up! Bah. Take him down like 
before and dock at the island. Enter his house and open the large chest to get 
the SWORDSMAN'S SCROLL! With this, you have now learned the art of the 
Great Spin Attack. Simply spin attack three times in quick succession and you 
will spin rapidly with a wide attack radius. You can also move around while 
spinning! Keep in mind that Link gets dizzy when the attack finishes.

One last thing to do, board the Man of Smiles' Traveler's Ship (back on the 
Northeastern Sea, in case you forgot) and take down the enemies. The Man of
Smiles will appear again. Talking to him gets you the Prize Postcard. Put this
in a postbox, and you will occasionally get prizes in the mail, such as 
Treasure or Ship Parts! Pretty valuable item, actually. Now let's set sail for
Goron Island in the Southeastern Sea. Time for the next temple! But...when you
are just about to dock, a weird twister kicks in, messes you around, and washes
out your engine, making you unable to move. A weird flying fish with multiple
eyes appears. It's your job to shoot down its eyes with cannon bombs (twice for
each eye) until it's dead. There are times where it will attack, and it's 
unavoidable. To gain health back, watch out for the electrical surges it fires
at you. They can, oddly enough, be destroyed with cannon fire, so do so. They
sometimes drop Ship Hearts. Also, the boss may summon Patras that fly rapidly
at you. After the boss is defeated, you'll dock at Goron Island.

First thing you need to do is head to the east side of the island, where the
chief Goron is. Just walk around until you see a scene of the game showing you
a small Goron across a gap. Stand at the south edge and make a noise to get the
Goron's attention. He'll step on the switch beside him to extend a bridge from
you to the rest of the island. These Gorons sure are nice people...follow the
island until you see a specially-marked path. Follow it to the Chief Goron, who
is actually called Biggoron (that name is used a lot in Zelda games it seems).
Along the way is a cracked part of the ground. Digging it up just gets you a
Red Rupee. He says that since you're an outsider, he won't speak of the pure
metal that rests here on this island, and only members of the Goron tribe are
allowed to know it.

...He is friendly enough to let you in as a member of the Goron tribe, but you
must talk to every Goron on the island first. This includes the ones in houses. 
Talk to the child Goron here, then leave. Now, I won't tell you all the Goron
locations, but once you do talk to them all, Ciela will let you know. This 
includes the guard Goron up the east side of the island. While you're doing 
this, cross that bridge and head north from it. Follow the path (after talking
to the Goron in the house that you pass) to find a Goron. He tells you to take
care of the monsters on the south cliff. To do this, dig up the filled hole 
nearby and use it to carry yourself up onto a raised ledge. Now take out your
Bow and kill the monsters (which are Yellow ChuChus) with Arrows. As a reward
for doing so, the Goron gives you a Treasure Map! Continue talking to the rest
of the Gorons, then return to the Biggoron. He will issue a short quiz of six
questions for the cost of 20 Rupees. Each question you answer, he rewards you 
money. Here are the questions and their answers (they're randomly chosen, and
there are a total of 11 questions in all):

- How many homes are there on this island?
Answer: 6

- The Goron at this spot! *shows location* What is he staring at?
Answer: Ship

- How many Gorons live on this island?
Answer: 14

- Easy one, stranger! What number question is this?!
Answer: 4 (if this question is chosen, it's always the fourth question)

- How many Rupees have you won so far? Easy!
Answer: 46 (if this question is chosen, it's always the fifth question)

- *shows location* How many rocks are there in this home?
Answer: 3

- How many Gorons are outside right now?
Answer: 7

- *shows location* What is on this spot?
Answer: Chest

- What color were the odd creatures on the cliff?
Answer: Yellow

- Of those Gorons outside, how many are adults?
Answer: 4

- How many Goron children live on this island?
Answer: 6

As a reward for your Goro-knowledge, he gives you a Wisdom Gem! Oh, and the fee
for initiation is 146 Rupees. That's the prize money he's been giving you for
answering correct questions...so you really only lost 20 Rupees out of the 
deal. Biggoron tells you that the pure metal is held in their temple on the far
side of their island, and you're free to take it. He says that Gongoron will 
take you to the temple. Talk to the little guy, and he says that he still 
doesn't trust you even if you are a member of the Goron tribe, so he challenges
you to catch him. In actuality, he takes you to the temple anyway, so good deal
for us!

The Goron outside near Biggoron's place tells you that Gongoron fled towards 
the west side of the island, so head that way! Eventually you'll see him on a
high ledge you can't reach. He'll flee to the east side of the island next, so
follow him. All the way to that guard Goron that was blocking the gate. Pass
that part and you will eventually reach what Ciela calls a dead-end. But there
are bombable walls. To safe Bomb ammo, use the bomb flowers here to blast open
the cracked walls of this little maze. Start with the right cracked wall and
follow the halls until you reach a dead-end with a chest. Open it for 100 
Rupees. Head back and start bombing the other cracked wall. Along the way there
though, you may see a dark ground marking on the north side of a wall that you
pass. Bomb there to make a path to the Temple. Now, at that other cracked wall,
pass through it once it's bombed, and take a left at the fork. At the end is a
switch to step on. Step on it and spikes blocking a chest will lower. Head back
around and take that path to the temple to exit the maze. Head straight south
once you exit the maze and re-enter it at the bottom. At the end of the path is
that chest! Open it for a Power Gem!

Now head to the Temple. Be careful of the Like Like, it can steal your shield 
if it swallows you. To avoid getting eaten, take it down from afar with Arrows. 
This will lower spikes to the Temple. Continue, but step on the switch by the
Temple to create a bridge as a shortcut to the west side of the Island. Enter
the Temple.

------------------------
GORON TEMPLE
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Gongoron still can't be found... Anyway, head east, staying out of the 
quicksand pits and avoiding being spotted by the Beamos. Follow the little 
curvy path while killing Blue ChuChus, and you'll see a switch. Step on it to
lower spikes...for as long as the switch is held down. There's a statue nearby,
so push it onto the switch so you can continue. At the end, you'll find a 
similar statue, but this is an Armos, and it's alive! To disable it for good so
that you can push it around, Bomb it. Use the bomb flower nearby to conserve 
ammo. Push the now-dead Armos north onto the switch to raise a gate that you 
passed before. Backtrack and head through there.

Another Armos. Use the bomb flower on the ledge above to kill it (dig up the
filled wind gust hole to get up there) and move it onto the floor switch here 
to extend a bridge on the ledge above. Get back up there and get on the bridge.
In the very middle, throw a Bomb north to hit a switch, making a chest appear
temporarily. Quickly head over there and open the chest for a Treasure Map! Now
cross the bridge and kill the two Armos to allow passage south. Take it. Now,
look east and fire an arrow at the eye switch to make a chest appear. Open it
for a Red Rupee. Step on the switch to lower the spikes to the entrance. Yay 
for shortcuts. Head west and you should see a cracked wall. Bomb that, but 
don't go through there, it's a dead-end. Bomb the wall between the first two 
pillars from the right to find another weak wall. Head through there to find 
the real path. Go downstairs.

You will have to fight some Red Bubbles, and some Beamos are in the way. Easy
way to do this is to just snipe the Bubbles with Arrows and you will be allowed
further through. Follow the quicksand-laden path and you will eventually find
Gongoron! You can't reach him though...but this provides a new gameplay 
mechanic! You can switch between Link and Gongoron to help the both of you 
continue through the temple. Cool, awesome. But first, an Eye Brute (Hinox?)
will attack. This cyclops monster punches and throws bombs, and its weak point
is its eye. Shoot its eye to stun it, then slash it for the kill. Now, Link's
path is blocked, so switch to Gongoron. Now, to attack as this guy, just tap an
enemy and he will bodyslam it. You can also roll into weak enemies to kill 
them. Both he and Link share the same health bar, so both will die if one dies.
Your objective as Gongoron is to roll over and break the boulders to the south
until you find Rock ChuChus. Kill them all and spikes will lower on Link's 
side. Switch back.

Head south and kill the Like Likes. Spikes will lower on Gongoron's side. 
Before switching, have Link stand on the switch on his side. Now switch. For
Gongoron to leap over the pit, just roll him to it and he'll automatically 
jump, like Link does. Place him on the switch on his side and a large chest 
will appear on Link's side. Switch and go over to the chest. Open it for the
BOMBCHUS! Yep, these are the ones introduced in Ocarina of Time. And they 
actually have a use! Spikes will lower for Gongoron, so switch to him. Head 
south and kill all the Eye Snakes, making a gate lower for Link's side. Switch
to Link, and head past that gate. Kill all the Eye Snakes and a chest will 
appear. Open it for Treasure. Spikes will lower in a Bombchu hall though. Now,
take out a Bombchu and you will gain access to the map, though only a portion
within Link's vicinity. Draw a line through the Bombchu hole, along the path
to the switch, and watch it go. Spikes will lower on your side, and Gongoron
will tell you that he'll find a way out of this Temple, so he'll meet you 
later. Alright.

Now you have two choices here. Upstairs...or downstairs. Let's go upstairs. 
Kill the Blue ChuChu, then use a Bombchu on the switch in the enclosed hall to
extend a bridge to the entrance of the temple. Now go downstairs back where you
were, then downstairs once more. Down here, kill the Like Like, then remove the
rock in the way to find a Bombchu hole. Go north, killing the Rock ChuChus and
removing the rocks in the way, and you'll find a switch. From here, draw a path
for a Bombchu to reach the switch on the other side. Now, while the Bombchu is
moving, tap anywhere on the screen to gain control of Link while the Bombchu is
still going. As soon as the Bombchu hits the switch on its side, hit the switch
on your side, and spikes will lower to downstairs. Take it.

Kill the Miniblins as you follow the path, and a chest will appear by the 
possessed pots. Go and open it for a Red Rupee. Now hit the color switch nearby
so the red blocks lower in the Bombchu corridor, and send one to the switch at
the end. Once the Bombchu passes the red blocks, have Link hit the color switch
to lower the blue blocks, enabling the Bombchu to hit the switch, lowering 
spikes to continue on. Do so. Kill all the Armos Statues with Bombs, then push
them onto each of the floor switches to lower spikes to continue. Keep going,
evading the possessed pots, and head upstairs, ignoring the boss door right
beside.

Step on the switch to create a shortcut bridge, then head east to fight more
Eye Brutes. Kill them and continue along the path, killing Blue ChuChus and 
Slimes. Ignore the switch when you come to it, but stop at the spikes. Send a
Bombchu to the switch so that you can safely pass the spikes. At the end, kill
all the Eye Snakes on the quicksand pit to the left to make a chest appear. 
Open it for Treasure. Now, send Bombchus to hit both switches on the other side
of the quicksand to make a large chest appear. To get back there, send a 
Bombchu to that spike switch like before so you can reach the chest. Inside is
the Boss Key! Take it downstairs (not the one past the bridge) and throw the
Key into the door. Follow the path to downstairs. ("These pillars hide no 
secret path, so waste not a single bomb.") Down in this room, refill some of
your stuff, and enter the door. The stone tablet before the door can spawn a
blue portal to exit.

-----------
BOSS: Dongorongo, Armored Lizard
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You will be stranded on a small ledge with a quicksand pit seperating you from
the rest of the room. Dongorongo will appear on that side. How to take care of
this boss then? Have no fear, Gongoron is here! He's at the side where the boss
is, so he will help you out. Of course, you have to switch between Link and 
Gongoron. You will automatically control Gongoron, so avoid the boss's triple
fireball attack and kill the Eye Snakes. Watch the top screen too, the Eye 
Snakes may go after Link. If so, Ciela will let you know, so switch to Link and
take care of the enemies. Once the boss starts his ramming attack, dodge him,
then start attacking (tap the boss) until the boss tips over.

Switch to Link and use a Bombchu to crawl right in Dongorongo's mouth, damaging
him. Switch back to Gongoron and repeat the same process twice more, and the
boss will just lay on the ground, dead. The door to the pure metal will open, 
and a bridge will emerge from the quicksand. Gongoron will go on ahead. Go 
across the bridge, and it will sink back down into the quicksand...and 
Dongorongo will get up! Ah, this guy's smart! He was playing dead! Time for 
round 2.

This time, Dongorongo has a special weakpoint on his back. We need to figure
out how to get him knocked over on his side. He has a new attack though, a 
flamethrower attack. It lasts about 10 seconds, and has a big start-up where he
inhales a lot of air. At this point, you throw a Bomb into his mouth. He will
topple over, so head over to his weakpoint and slash it. Repeat until dead. 
Note that Eye Snakes will still attempt to mess you up, so be vigilant.
-----------

The boss will turn to sand, adding two minutes to your Hourglass. A chest will
appear, and the door ahead will open. The bridge will also appear again. Open
the chest for a Heart Container, then head on. Gongoron will ask you what 
happened, and apologizes for leaving before the boss was taken care of. In this
chamber, head up the stairs, and pick up the Crimsonine! Two more pure metals!
A blue portal will appear, so take it.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (20 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Crimsonine
Bomb Bag (30)
Quiver (50)
Bombchu Bag (10)
Swordsman's Scroll

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Wisdom (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Courage
Sun Key
Ghost Key

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Bombchus
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 13
Wisdom: 11
Courage: 7

TREASURE MAPS: 15

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 8

Total Health: 11 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||           Chilling Tale            ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
After the temple, head back to the maze, over to where the entrance was. Take
the left entrance, and go down at the fork. You should see a hole with a switch
inside. Use a Bombchu to hit that switch, making a chest appear on the 
northeast temporarily. Head there quickly and open it for a Treasure Map! Now
let's get off Goron Island completely, but not after visiting Biggoron. He 
gives us 200 Rupees, returning the initiation fee, plus a little extra. How 
nice! Now get off the island, and start sailing around the south of this area
to find a hidden island shaped like a DS. Dock at this Dee Ess Island. Now, 
head to the upper screen of this island, and start digging at the cracked floor
patches (the island's "speakers") on both sides to get 100 Rupees on the right
side, and 300 on the left. Drop into the "top screen" to fight some Eye Brutes.
Kill them and open the chest that appears for a Courage Gem! Yay! Use the wind
gusts to get up out of here, then head into the "lower screen."

Get to the very lower-left corner and dig in that spot to find another Courage
Gem! The Goron Game here isn't available yet, so head off the island. Salvage
the treasures of all the Maps you've gotten first, then start sailing towards 
the island surrounded by ice, and Linebeck will tell you to knock down the ice 
by circling the island and shooting it. So draw a path around the island about 
two or three times, and start shooting down all the pieces of ice until they're 
all gone. Chart a course to dock at this Isle of Frost. Also, if you started up
this game a day later after finishing the Goron Temple, you will get a letter
from Gongoron in the mail. He tells you that the game they've been working on 
at Dee Ess Island is now complete, and you will get a Courage Gem packaged with
the letter.

Your objective is to enter the Anouki house north of the Postbox. The Anouki
chief lives here. Agree to listen to his story. You'll learn that there are two
tribes on this island: the Anouki and Yook. They have been relatively peaceful
with each other, but a Yook recently snuck into the Anouki Estates (the six 
houses to the north) and disguised himself as an Anouki. You need to pinpoint
which Anouki is fake. So exit his house and head north into the Anouki Estates.
Now, the hints each Anouki gives seem pretty cryptic to me, but it's probably
because I suck at logic puzzles. If you want to solve it yourself, skip the 
rest of this paragraph. Regardless, the Yook is in the same place, the upper 
middle house. After talking to all the Anouki in the houses, you can start 
pressing them further to see if they're the Yook, so head into that house
once you can and expose the Yook.

Return to the chief when you found the Yook, and he will tell you that the pure
metal is in the temple of the island, over at the Yook's territory. He will let
you be able to access the rest of the island. Before doing that, dig in front
of the sign next to the chief's house for 100 Rupees. Now head back to the 
Anouki Estates, and get on the small islet across the bridge to the west. Dig 
in the center to reveal a Treasure Map! Now head east and go through the cave 
into Yook territory. Kill all the Yook here by first throwing bombs into their 
mouths when they suck in air to stun them, then slash them to death. Once
they're all dead, the way to the Temple of Ice will open up. Head north up 
there and you will fight a little stronger Yook than normal. The way to defeat
him is the same way as any other normal Yook, just beware of his fury club 
swipe attack. After he's dead, the entrance of the Temple of Ice will be 
opened. Head in.

------------------------
TEMPLE OF ICE
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Alright, head forward and hit the color switch to lower the red blocks. Pass
them, then use the Boomerang to hit the same switch again to lower the blue
blocks. Continue and you'll see red blocks blocking the way upstairs. Head 
south along the icy bridge while avoiding the Blade Traps, and at the other
side, step on the switch to open a door back to the color switch. Now get back
on that bridge, and take out a Bombchu. Use it to hit the color switch from
afar, so that you'll be past the blue blocks, and the red blocks will lower.
Head upstairs now. There's nothing much to do in the next room except for 
refills from pots, so go upstairs once more.

Now for some really slippery icy floors. Head south carefully until you see
four pots and a wooden pole. Get on the wooden pole by tapping on it, then use
the Boomerang to hit the switch to the north. This melts the ice blocking the
way west, so head there now. Once across, go open that chest that you saw for
100 Rupees. Now head completely south to find a stone tablet in an alcove. 
Reading it will reveal the last lever you need to pull to the north. Head 
completely west now to find another stone tablet at the end after several 
ledges to jump across. Reading this will reveal the first lever to pull. There
is another stone tablet on the northwest end of this floor, which reveals the
second lever to pull. Now head back to those levers and pull them in order. (In
other words, first one is the far left, second is the far right, third is the
second right, last is the second left.)

By doing this, a door will open to let you gain access to the upper ledges 
here. Head through that door. Avoid the Stag Beetle and head north, avoiding
the Ice Keese and Ice Bubbles. Ignore the switches that you come across, and at
the end of the path, you'll see a color switch on a lower ledge. Throw a Bomb
down to it to hit it, and the blue blocks of this floor will lower. Go back
around to the first raised ledge you were on, and take the bridge to the west
to the middle ledge. The stone tablet will tell you to stand on the tile and
hit the switches in the order the numbers are located. So, use the Boomerang to
have it hit the northeast switch first, then the northwest, then the southwest,
then southeast. A small key will appear on the ledge to your right. Retrieve it
with the Boomerang. Now, before opening the locked door, drop down and head 
west to find that a raised ledge is now available due to the blue blocks being
lowered. Head there and open the chest for a Wisdom Gem! Now go and unlock that
door, and head downstairs.

In here, you will have to fight two Yooks. Once they're gone, you'll be able to
continue, and a large chest will appear. Open it for the GRAPPLING HOOK! This
one works differently from Wind Waker, in that it acts like a Hookshot, 
dragging you towards certain things. It has many other uses though, which you
will soon find out. Use the Hook to take you across the gap, then head 
downstairs. Down here, you can now easily take care of the Stag Beetles by
snatching their masks with the Grappling Hook, then killing them. Kill them 
all, then grab the middle statue's tongue with the Hook and pull it. The ice to
the south will melt, so take that and Grapple across the gap. Down here, step 
on the switch to open the door to the entrance. Take it, and pull the tongues 
of the statues the same way you did to that other one, and ice blocking the way
downstairs that you passed will melt. Head down there.

Down here, blast open the cracked wall with a Bomb, and head into the alcove to
find a switch. Step on it and a chest will appear across the gap. Hook over to
it and open it for 200 Rupees. Step on the switch to extend a bridge. Now head
east to find a lot of pots. If you break them all, you'll find one was resting
on a tile. Place a Bomb there to blast away a weak wall, and head through. 
Here, create a tightrope to the east by connecting the Grappling Hook with the
pole on your side to the pole on the other side, then walk across it. Use the
Hook to pull the lever to the north, creating a chest in a little southeastern
room. Now head up the north path, killing Stag Beetles, until you find a tongue
statue. Stand as far away from it as you can, and pull the tongue with the 
Hook. This will make the ice in the southeastern room to melt temporarily, and
how long it is melted depends on how far you pulled the tongue. So head there
quickly and pass the ice. Open the chest for a small key.

Pull the block here out, then follow the path to find a floor switch. Step on
it to extend a bridge out of this little area. Now, head north and unlock the
locked door. Head inside and open the chest for a Wisdom Gem! Now, get out of
this room, then use the Boomerang to hit the color switch. Otherwise you 
would've been trapped in the room. Now, backtrack to the middle, and create
tightropes to the west. Place a Bomb at the discolored tile to blast open a
weak wall for a shortcut. Now, get on the tightrope here, and use the Boomerang
while on the tightrope and hit all the switches surrounding the eye switch. 
This will melt the ice in front of the eye switch, so shoot it with an Arrow to
melt the ice in the small alcove to the west, revealing a tongue statue. Head
over there and pull the tongue as far out as it can go to open a door far to 
the north. Head back to where you can make the tightropes, and Grapple over to 
the pole that's just offscreen to the northwest. Grapple along all the 
platforms using the poles, and you should just make it past the door.

The boss door is here, so we must be almost finished with this temple..already.
Head downstairs. Down here, head west then north, Hooking across the small gap.
Continue and you will have to fight a Yook. Doing so will make ice melt so you
can head north. Create a tightrope to the north and walk across, being careful
of the Blade Trap. Now, kill the Ice Keese (the Grappling Hook can kill small
enemies) and create another tightrope to the north. Walk along it, and head
west to find two poles, but no other poles at the other side. What do we do?
Why, we use a Grappling Hook tightrope as a slingshot! Connect the Hook between
the two poles, then get on the west side and push against the rope. When you're
as far as you can go, release and you will launch over the gap. Neat, huh? Now
head along this ledge, kill the Ice Bubble, and get on the altar with the four
switches. Bomb the south wall for a shortcut, and hit all the switches at once
with a spin attack. This will make a large chest appear on an altar to the 
south, but you can't reach it. A door nearby the chest will open though.

Head to where that altar is and head through the now-open door. When here, head
east until you see two torches close together. Make a rope between them, get on
the north side, and slingshot yourself onto the ledge above. Grapple along 
using the torches, and at the end, shoot the eye switch with an Arrow to open a 
door below. Drop down, and step on the switch that's here to extend a bridge to 
the south. This way you don't have to do that slingshot thing to get back over 
here. Now head through that door. In here, there are two eye switches that 
close when you face towards them. So...in order to hit them, make a tightrope
between the two poles (make sure you're north of the poles) then shoot an arrow
at the tightrope. The Arrow will bounce off the rope to the north. Aha. Use 
this to hit the eye switches, and a chest will appear. Get rid of the tightrope
by getting the Grappling Hook out again, then head to the chest and open it for
a small key.

Head back south and open the locked door. Head in, and kill the Yook and the
Ice Keese. This will make a door open to the south, and a chest to appear in
the room you're in. Open it for 200 Rupees. Now head back, then east, after
getting rid of the rocks and Rock ChuChu. In this little corner, Grapple 
across, kill the Ice Bubble, and get on the pole. Grapple to the next pole, 
then get on it. Grapple to the next pole, then step on the switch to melt the 
ice to a bridge on the south side. Head there, kill the Stag Beetle, and walk 
carefully along the bridge to see a switch. Step on it to melt the ice blocking 
that large chest! Backtrack to the chest, and open it for the Boss Key. Take it 
downstairs, then throw it onto the boss door. In here, you can read the stone
tablet to make a blue portal appear which takes you to the entrance, if you
need to. Head upstairs.

-----------
BOSS: Gleeok, Two-Headed Dragon
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Been a while since we saw a Gleeok, hasn't it? At any rate, at first, the heads
attack by spewing fireballs of different colors. If the red head spews a 
fireball, create a tightrope connecting the top left pole and the bottom right 
pole. This will make the fireball bounce to the blue head and damage its 
helmet. If the blue head spews a blue fireball, create a tightrope connecting 
the top right pole with the bottom left pole. This will bounce the fireball to 
the red head and damage its helmet. Also, if you create a tightrope too soon, 
one of the heads will go and try to bite you, which will coincidentally break 
the tightrope as well.

Occasionally, the heads will suddenly sink down into the water, creating a wave
of water that will sweep the platform you're on. To avoid getting damaged by
the wave, stand on one of the poles, then get back down onto the water when the
wave passes, as ice chunks will attempt to knock you off the pole. Keep dodging
them until the heads come back up. Eventually, both heads' helmets should break
off after about four hits each. Once that happens, a new phase begins.

The heads will come down and bite away the two northern poles, leaving only two
poles left to deal with. Now, the heads will come one at a time to try to bite
you. Avoid those attacks. The head will then attempt to fire a big attack. The
blue head creates ice on the ground that may freeze you, while the red head
creates fire to try to burn you. During this charge up, the heads will have 
their hoop-like tongue out. Use the Grappling Hook to connect the tongue with
a nearby pole, and the head will slam onto the floor, getting dazed. At this
point, you simply slash the head. It may take a couple of tries on each head
before the battle is actually finished.
-----------

Both heads will turn into sand, and surge into the Phantom Hourglass to add two
more minutes. A large chest will appear, and a bridge to the room that holds
the Azurine will appear. Open the chest for a Heart Container, then cross the
bridge and into the next room. (Tap the door open.) Head up to the top of the
altar and grab the Azurine. Only one more pure metal left to grab! Take the 
blue portal out of here.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (22 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Crimsonine
Azurine
Bomb Bag (30)
Quiver (50)
Bombchu Bag (10)
Swordsman's Scroll

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Wisdom (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Courage
Sun Key
Ghost Key

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Bombchus
Grappling Hook
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 13
Wisdom: 13
Courage: 10

TREASURE MAPS: 17

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 9

Total Health: 12 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||        Kingdom of the Dead         ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Aroo will be outside, and will thank you for helping to find that Yook that was
assuming his identity. Cool. Hop onto the pole here, and Grapple to the next 
one to the left. Keep doing this until you get to the top. Head south and you 
will find another pole, and a way west. Oddly enough, there's nothing to get to 
the west (not even Rupees) so Hook to the pole on the other side and head 
south. You will eventually see a chest on a lower ledge. Drop down to it and 
open it for a Power Gem! Get back to the Temple of Ice entrance area and climb 
onto the top of the cliff again, and get to the east cliff like before and 
continue further south from that Power Gem. You should see a chest on a higher 
ledge. Keep going to see a pole. Get on it, then Grapple to the chest. Open it 
for 100 Rupees. Get back onto that pole and Hook over to the higher ledge on 
the left.

Drop to the left to see another pole. Look north to see two chests. Grapple to 
them and open them for two Red Rupees. Drop down. You should see Yooks here, 
but they're friendly now, because the Gleeok in that Temple put an evil 
influence on the Yooks. Head to the Anouki town. If you booted the game up a
day later after beating the Temple of Ice, you should have a letter from Aroo.
Packaged with it is a Wisdom Gem. Now, before we leave, let's get some more
treasure on this island. Head to the very west to see some stairs leading to a
ledge just north of the ship. Climb it, then Grapple over to the chest to the 
north. Open the chest for a Wisdom Gem! Head north to the Anouki Estates. Dig
in front of the stone signs of the lower left and lower right houses to get 100
Rupees for each. Now Hook to the southeast platform and dig in the center to
get a Big Gold Rupee, which is worth 300 Rupees! Now, the Gossip Stone on the
northeastern platform tells you to draw a line from it to the island chief's
house, and dig somewhere in the middle of the line. The prize is 200 Rupees! It
sits in front of the right stone sign south of the bridge to Anouki Estates. We
sure have gotten a lot of Rupees, haven't we?

Exit the island now. Go and salvage the treasure from the Map you got first,
then dock back at Dee Ess Island. On the "touch screen" of the island, the 
Goron Game is set up. Pay 50 Rupees to play it. Your objective is to break all 
the objects along the island's course. Doing so will open up the path to the 
finish line. The faster you finish it, you might get better prizes! Gongoron 
plays this for you. Basically, roll over the arrows on the ground to get speed
boosts, but make sure you break any and all objects along the path. If you beat
the record of 35 seconds, you will get a Bombchu Bag upgrade, allowing you to
carry 20 Bombchus! Now you can exit this island. Now let's explore the rest of
the Southeastern Sea. We can find another hidden island here. It's around the
center of the sea, close to the triangle formation of brown rocks. This is 
Harrow Island. Dock here.

This island is pretty special. Treasures abound under the ground on this 
island, and a Gossip Stone set up a digging game here. Hit it to participate.
He says you can dig anywhere you want for 50 Rupees, but you can only dig up 10 
treasures. Dig anymore up, and there will be severe consequences. And by that,
I mean a huge Rupee penalty. Keep digging after that and you will be banned 
from playing the game. Yeah. So, if you agree, a wind gust will generate, 
allowing you to get up to the place where you can start digging. Now, you can
get lots of Rupee treasures here, but Rupoors are also common. However, your
main reason for being here is to dig up four Treasure Maps. Considering you got
a lot of Rupees back at the Isle of Frost, I assume you should have more than
enough Rupees to be able to get all four maps. Once you have gotten them, exit
the island. Oh yeah, after each game, you'll have to exit the island and re-
dock anyway, so yeah. I'll go get me a sandwich while you work on that.

...! Ah! You're done? Alright then. Salvage the new treasures in the 
Southeastern Sea now, then dock at Goron Island again. Get back to the ledge 
where you had to take down Yellow ChuChus, and face southwest at the edge. Use 
the Grappling Hook on the far rock to pull yourself over to that ledge, then 
open the chest up here for a Courage Gem! Now visit the shop. The last Bombchu 
Bag upgrade may be available here for 1000 Rupees. Take it if you have the 
money. (I'm assuming you do...I had above 3500 Rupees when I started Harrow 
Island and was about the same amount afterwards.) Now you can carry 30 
Bombchus! Exit the island, and dock at the Isle of Ember in the Southwestern 
Sea. Here, head to the north part of the island, and Grapple to the chest on 
the small islet. Open it for a Courage Gem! Exit the island and dock at Mercay 
Island.

Remember that Freedle guy on that northeast islet? Head there and talk to him.
Since you have all four Sea Charts, he gives you a Treasure Map. Now go to the
shop at the town here. The shop should have a Heart Container available for
purchase! It costs 2000 Rupees. If you don't have that money, keep this 
Container in mind for later when you do. Otherwise, buy this. Exit the island
now, and dock at Molida Island. Talk to the little girl by the dock and she
should give you a Treasure Map! Now head into the cave by Romanos's house. Jump
across those platforms to the east side, but stop at the final one. From here,
Grapple to the chest to the east. Open it for a Power Gem! Drop down. See the 
cracked part of the ground? Dig it up for 100 Rupees. Now, you may have to 
fight the River Zora again. Either way, we need to head back towards the Temple
of Courage.

Once you get there, you should see a pole and a small islet to the northwest,
with a pole on that. Create a tightrope between those poles and walk across, 
then open the chest for a Courage Gem. Now exit Molida Island, and dock at
Spirit Island. Enter the cave, and show the Courage Gems you have to the 
fountain. The Spirit of Courage is now upgraded! With Ciela equipped, you can
fire sword beams from your sword whenever you slash. This will actually come in
useful for some enemies in the next few new places we are going, so equip her
now. Exit the cave. Now that we have the Grappling Hook, we can explore the 
rest of this island. Go east of this cave entrance and Grapple to the right 
past the opened chest. Here, kill the Octoroks with sword beams, then climb up 
and continue east, keeping on killing Octoroks.

In this next grassy platform, you have to take care of a Like Like and a Rupee
Like. Rupee Likes are Like Likes with fake Rupees attached to them. They appear
as Rupees, and when you approach, they pop up and try to swallow your Rupees.
Depending on the Rupee they have attached to them, that's how much they'll
take. Anyway, kill them, then pull out the block. Continue, kill the other Like
Like and Rupee Like, then climb the stairs. Open the chest for a Power Gem. 
Exit this island now, and sail to the Northwestern Sea. Dock at Uncharted 
Island. Enter the cave. Now, there's a ledge to the northeast. On there is a
chest and a pole. Across from it is another pole. Create a tightrope and walk
along it, and open the chest for a Courage Gem. Exit the island and dock at
Bannan Island. Close to where you dock is a small islet. Grapple to it using 
the chest, then open it for a Power Gem. Make your way to the eastern side of 
the island now.

Back at Salvatore's little area, but we're not doing his game. See the two 
islets to the north? You can create a tightrope from here to the larger one.
Open both chests here for 100 Rupees and a Courage Gem! Now, the other islet
are just some stone tablets that tell you there's treasure hidden in the ground
between those two chests. Dig there to get a Treasure Map! Now exit Bannan 
Island. We're done getting new treasures at old islands, so salvage all the Map
treasures you can. There's one that you can't reach yet, and it's by the large
island in the Northeastern Sea. We'll get to that soon though. After all the
salvaging, dock at the northeastern island at the Northeastern Sea, which is 
the Isle of the Dead.

Head east once you arrive and enter the cave. Inside is a book on a table. Read
it to find out some explorer was here and was looking for Aquanine, the last
pure metal. He also notes that the island is shaped like the profile of a 
person facing east, wearing a crown. Read the other books from left to right to
find out about the islands on this section of the sea. Pretty interesting. Head
west, but before you exit the cave, bomb the north wall to find a weak wall.
Head in. Agh! A Rupoor maze! And Keese to try to mess you up! Don't try to kill
them with sword strikes, you'll just pick up any Rupoors. Same with the 
Boomerang. So just use your Bow to pick them off. At the end, you'll see a room
filled with Rupees, and four chests. Open them for two Ship Parts, a Treasure 
Map, and a Courage Gem! Now exit this cave using the adjacent hall to the east,
then the explorer's cave using the exit nearby.

Follow the path up here and kill the Rupee Likes. We need to figure out how to
gain access to the graveyard on the northwest end. Just head along the island 
to the temple on the northeast, killing Stalfos along the way. Once you enter
the temple, kill the Keese, then read the right stone tablet. It mentions a
tree that rests on the "king's chin", then numbers with directions beside them,
as if the steps you need to take in a certain direction. Exit the temple and
head to the southeast end of the island to find that tree. From it, move 13 
tiles west, then north 7 tiles. Done correctly, dig at the spot you're at to
reveal a secret cave! Drop down. In here, you can head west, but the game 
points you right to a cracked wall. Bomb it and head inside to find a load of
Rupees and a chest. Collect them and open the chest for a Power Gem! Read the
stone sign and it says to face west from the "king's eye" and shoot an arrow.
Hm. Exit this room.

Head west and follow the hall, killing Keese and dodging rolling boulders until
you reach the exit. You'll be on a high ledge of the island. The "king's face"
if you want to be specific. Shoot an arrow to the west at the switch to open 
the door to the graveyard. Before heading there, explore the ledge you're on to
see a chest. Open it for a Treasure Map! Now head to the graveyard. Find the
gravestone of the first sage, and follow the directions to each of the six 
sages. (Six sages...sounds like Ocarina of Time.) The directions you took, are
the directions you need to take to get through the northeast temple. So head
there and go north from the entrance, east, east, north, north. Brant's tomb is
here. Explain to him (or rather, the spirit of him) what happened and what your 
quest is for, and he says that King Mutoh should help you. Head upstairs and
you will end up on the middle islet. Open the large chest for the REGAL 
NECKLACE! This item will let you access the Isle of Ruins, the larger island on
this part of the sea. Head back to your ship and head out.

Head to the Isle of Ruins. As you approach the twister guarding the island, the
Regal Necklace will make it disappear, allowing you entrance on the island. Now
go ahead and salvage all the treasures that are out there, then dock on the
Isle of Ruins. Once here, head north into a cave. In here, follow the path 
until you have to fight a River Zora. After it's dead, cross the bridge and 
head to the end to get back outside. Now, head along this maze of paths until
you get to the northern exit. Head east at the next area thing and head north
up stairs when you can. Head west now, and follow the path north while dodging
rolling boulders. At the end, get up onto the west cliff that was the wall of
the boulder hall, and follow it west into the temple. In here, talk to Bremeur
and he tells you that the monster in Mutoh's Temple has angered King Mutoh, and
it's your job to go there and slay the monster and calm the King's anger. He
will open a new path to Doylan, the next knight. Exit the temple, and you will
see a bridge extend to the rest of the island. Go back there and cross that
bridge.

Go down the stairs, kill the Miniblins, then head east until you get to the
next area. Keep going east, avoiding the bones the Stalfos throw at you. At the
end, go north and into the next temple. Head through the twisting hall, dodging
boulders, blocking wall arrows, and avoiding floor traps, and finally battling
Stalfos, and go upstairs. Touch the door open, and talk to Doylan. He gives you
the KING'S KEY! You can use this back at Bremeur's Temple. Simply backtrack to
Bremeur's Temple (yeah, I know, just bear with it) and use the Key on the 
pillar that has a keyhole on it. It will lower, and the water will lower in the
Temple. Head outside and you'll find that the whole island has risen from the
water! Drop down and follow the path. It's fairly linear, just kill Stalfos and
avoid rolling boulders until you reach a fairly more open area. Get to the 
southeast of this little open area and open the chest for 100 Rupees. Now go
down the west side where rolling boulders are heading. Down here, push the 
right boulder out of the way, and go around to a boulder up above. Push it down
and it will ram into the other boulder, destroying it. Head down that new path.

Down here, kill the Stalfos and go up to the boulder. Push it so it's lined up
with the weird tiles, and push it east. It will destroy the boulder past the
bridge. If it missed, just exit this "area" back where you came in and the 
boulder will respawn. Once that's gone, cross that bridge and head north to see
a chest. Open it for a Wisdom Gem! Head back to that boulder, and push it 
south to break another boulder. Head down that new path to find yourself at the
foot of Max's Temple. But before visiting it, head west of it and step on the
switch on top of the tall ledge to create a bridge to the rest of the island.
Now go around Max's Temple to the entrance and...enter it. Head up to Max and
talk to his spirit. He will say that in order to gain access to Mutoh's Temple,
you have to find out the sacred crest and draw it on a special door in "Mutoh's
Corridor." He will open up the corridor so you can figure out the crest. Head
there and enter the corridor. Read the stone tablet and it says that reading 
the stone tablets on the "surface labyrinth" will reveal the crest. This is a
maze, so let's head to the maze in the southwest!

Once there, first head to the northeast edge of the maze to find a chest. Open
it for a Power Gem! One more Power Gem. Now, wander the maze to find stone 
tablets. The number of stars written on them tell you what order they are, so
find them all and put down the number of the stars each stone tablet has. Where
the numbers are will tell you what the sacred crest is, and which end you have
to start and stop drawing. So once you figured that out, head back to that
sacred crest door. However, along the way, find a way to the cave on the north
side of the island. Enter it. Inside, grab the Rupees and open the chest for a
Wisdom Gem! Now continue as if you're heading back to Doylan's Temple, but drop
down on the ground around the Temple. Open the chest near the Temple to get a
Courage Gem. Now here, jump to the west to be at the foot of Mutoh's Temple.
Find the chest here and open it for 200 Rupees. Now head back to that sacred 
crest door and draw the crest. The sacred crest is actually the symbol that the
Golden Frog on the Southeastern Sea near the Isle of Frost showed you. 
Interesting, huh?

Follow the corridor, killing Stalfos, and touch the door open. Head north and
face two River Zoras. To cheap this battle out, get on the bridge and stun them
with the Boomerang from there. They won't move and they likely won't be able to
attack. Once they're gone, keep going north into Mutoh's Temple.

------------------------
MUTOH'S TEMPLE
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This is one of the more unique temples, in that the whole dungeon is pretty 
much shaped just like a pyramid, with the deeper you go, the larger the floors
get. At any rate, there are multiple paths you can take, but take the eastern
path past the switches. Bomb the north walls at the end, and be careful when
walking out, as there's a trap door. Now go back and hit the right switch to
make a bridge extend on that path you took. Quickly cross that bridge. When you
need to go north, take a few steps south and open the door there with the 
switch, for a shortcut. Now head north, and fight two Stalfos at the end. After
the battle, a bridge will appear. Cross it and step on the switch, then head
back to the entrance.

Take the west path now, and kill any Keese that may obstruct your path, then
head back. Place a Bomb by the left switch and haul ass across that west path
so that you can beat the strict timer and cross the bridge that is created. 
Keep going north now and kill more Stalfos. Cross the bridge and step on the
switch to lower spikes to downstairs. Before doing that though, head back south
on the west side and open a shortcut door with a switch. Now go back and head
downstairs. Down here, just head east and south, killing Stalfos, crossing a
bridge, and head upstairs. Avoid the Shell Spinners and get upstairs again. Up
here, touch open the door and go through the maze while being careful of Rupee
Likes. If you head left instead of right, you will get to a chest that has 
Treasure. Either way, at the end, head upstairs by that weird switch that Ciela
notices.

Up here, kill the enemies and a large chest will appear. Open it for the 
HAMMER! Yay. Instead of Link using the item when it's equipped, Ciela actualy
holds it and swings it around at your command. That is one strong fairy, damn!
Head downstairs, and pound down that switch with your new item. Head forward,
and stand on the footprints of the "see-saw." Hammer the other side to get 
flung upwards. Keep flinging yourself upwards, and kill the Shell Spinners by
Hammering them twice. Head downstairs, kill the Shell Spinners, and pound the
switch. Head downstairs from the door that opened. Head west down here until 
you see a second boulder. Get up on its left side and push it right so that it
rolls to the first boulder and break it. Follow the path that the first boulder
blocked, and you will fight Stalfos. Just kill them with the Hammer. Continue
on and go downstairs even more.

Phew. Pound the two switches down, and follow the spiked log west, and step 
into the alcove to the south. Wait for the moving platforms and take them 
south while Hammering down all the switches and the annoying Stalfos. Once all
of them are Hammered (including the southern one) the spiked log will move from
the south ledge, so you can get on it. Keep moving south past it to find a 
chest. Open it for a Courage Gem! Head up now, open the chest for a small key,
and go upstairs. Here, step on the switch to open the door in front of you, 
then go north past a bridge and open the locked door. Hit the floating thing to
drain the water in this floor. Drop down and head west. Kill the Stalfos, then
pound the center of the X tiles to turn them to O tiles and open the way. Go
south, up some stairs, and use the see-saw to get flung up to another ledge.
From here, shoot an arrow at the floating thing to raise the water again, and
head south.

Pound the X tiles to turn them to O tiles, and a door from where you came from 
downstairs here will open. Head east and across a bridge, and face west. Shoot
an arrow at the floating thing to drain the water again. Go east, drop down, 
and head downstairs. The boss door is here, but we can't open yet obviously.
Pound the X tiles into O tiles like before and a bridge will extend to another
upstairs place. Take it. Head east, fling yourself up a couple of ledges with
see-saws, and hit the jewel to the east until it points south, then fire an 
arrow at it to make the arrow hit one of those floating things (I'm just gonna
call them water level switches) to raise the water. Cross the bridge, and lower
the water again so you can see the solution of the X/O tiles below. Now, pound
the tiles up here so that they match the tiles below. A door will open to the
west. Raise the water again, cross the bridge, lower the water, and follow the 
path up to the door. Drop down past the door, kill the Stalfos, and open the
chest down here for 100 Rupees. Get up to the boulder on the north and push it
onto the see-saw. Fling it up to the ledge above, get up there, and push the
boulder right so that it destroys another boulder. Head through there.

Go down and open the chest for a small key, then fling yourself up a ledge. Go
east up here until you reach a locked door. Open it, and you will see a boulder
on a see-saw. Fling it up, then fling yourself up. Fling the boulder up again,
get up, fling the boulder up, get up, fling the boulder one last time, then
fling yourself up. Push the boulder left to make it destroy another boulder 
blocking the way to a large chest. Head west and open the chest for a Boss Key!
Head back down, then go downstairs a floor. Here, get on the platform and it
will start moving. Place the Boss Key beside you, and kill the Stalfos around
with the Hammer. Once they're gone, pick it back up. At the end, open the boss
door. Go past, fling yourself up, then go downstairs. Down here, head north,
spawn the blue portal if you want to, and head through the door.

-----------
BOSS: Eox, Ancient Stone Soldier
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss really towers above Link...quite big. Its attacks are pretty much 
firing arrows at you, and slamming its fist down to hit you. I recommend having
the Spirit of Wisdom equipped for better defense, since you don't really use
your sword for the boss right now. However, this boss has quite a number of red 
spots popping out of its body. What you have to do, is fling yourself into the 
air using the see-saws so that the boss's weakpoints can be available at the 
touch screen, and start pounding those weakpoints like crazy, its body slowly 
crumbling away. In order to hit the last ones (back of the head, arms, butt),
you have to get behind it. Best way to do it is while it's firing arrows at 
you. When it's looking around for you, that's your chance.

Once its whole body is gone, leaving just its wooden frame, Eox's actual weak
point appears on top of its head. First though, you have to weaken its wooden
frame so that only its head remains. Do the same thing as before. Fling 
yourself into the air, and hit its new red weak spots very quickly so that each
one turns blue. If you're not quick enough, they will turn red again. If 
successful, the body frame will crumble, its head falling onto the floor.

Now, the fight is back to just one screen. The boss will hop around now, 
occasionally firing arrows. Your objective is to...you guessed it. Fling 
yourself onto the boss's head and start slashing that blue weakpoint. Best to
have the Spirit of Power equipped now. Just keep doing this until Eox finally
dies.
-----------

The boss will turn into sand, and surge into the Hourglass. Two more minutes!
A large chest will appear. Open it for a Heart Container. Head downstairs, then
approach King Mutoh's spirit. Talk to him, and he will give you access to the
Aquanine. Go and pick it up, then head out using the blue portal.

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (24 minutes)
Oshus's Sword
Wooden Shield
Crimsonine
Azurine
Aquanine
Bomb Bag (30)
Quiver (50)
Bombchu Bag (30)
Swordsman's Scroll

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Wisdom (lvl. 1)
Spirit of Courage (lvl. 1)
Sun Key
Ghost Key
King's Key
Regal Necklace

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Bombchus
Grappling Hook
Hammer
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 19
Wisdom: 17
Courage: 18

TREASURE MAPS: 26

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 11

Total Health: 14 Hearts
-------------
                     ______________________________________
                    |\____________________________________/|
--------------------||      Forging Bellum's Defeat       ||-------------------
                    |/¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\|
                     ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Head back to your ship at this point and leave the island. Head straight to 
Zauz's Island. Before talking to him, assuming you set the DS clock a day 
forward, you should get a letter from King Mutoh in the mail. Packaged with it
is the final Power Gem. Now head into Zauz's house and talk to him. He will
forge the Phantom Sword using the metals you collected, but it will take some
time. Alright. Perfect opportunity to finish collecting some stuff. Head back
to your ship and you will find you have a letter from Jolene. It's addressed to
you this time. So yeah, she challenges you to one last duel, so let's head out.
Anything to get that girl out of our hair for good. Sail straight to her and
purposely let her board your ship to start the fight. Unfortunately, the fight
is hardly changed, so if you were hoping for an exciting sword fight...yeah.
Afterwards, before she leaves, she gives her regards to Linebeck (she knew he
was hiding in there the entire time? Haha) and leaves. Linebeck then explains
why Jolene started a dislike to him. Interesting story.

Either way, she's finally out of our hair. At this point, we could head back to
Zauz's Island to get the Phantom Sword, but let's get that other stuff. Head to
the Northeastern Sea and sail around the north side to find a hidden island! 
Dock at this Maze Island. Now, your objective is to go through the maze in the
island, hitting Gossip Stones along the way. Now, it's extremely confusing to
write down on text, so I'll just refer you to the maps on GameFAQs. Each 
difficulty for the maze has a seperate prize for completing, plus there's also
a Wisdom Gem that you can get on the island. Basically, on the east side of the
island, there's a wall that you can Bomb. It's south of a treasure chest. Bomb
it and open the chest for the Wisdom Gem.

Beginner Map: http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/ds/file/932377/50419
Prize: Wisdom Gem
Fee: 20 Rupees

Normal Map: http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/ds/file/932377/50420
Prize: Treasure Map
Fee: 50 Rupees

Expert Map: http://www.gamefaqs.com/portable/ds/file/932377/50421
Prize: Heart Container
Fee: 100 Rupees

Also, after finishing all the difficulties, you get a prize...a big Gold Rupee!
Yay for 300 Rupees. Now for some of the final stuff. And to get this...we need
to fight Beedle's Masked Ship. He appears sometime between 10:00 PM and 12:00
AM on weekdays, and between 10:00 AM and 12:00 PM on weekends. Either set your
DS clock to that, or simply wait. This masked ship always sells valuable stuff,
but keep in mind that anything you buy at the shop doesn't give you points in
the normal Beedle shop. (At least I think.) The most important things we want
are a Courage Gem for 500 Rupees, and a Heart Container for 1500 Rupees. Yay.
After all this, head to Zauz's Island. Talk to him and he will have the blade
ready. You now got the Phantom Sword...but there's no hilt. As such, we can't
wield it yet. However, he says that Oshus can make the hilt by infusing the
Sand of Hours with the blade. Alright, let's head to Mercay Island!

Head straight to his house, talk to him, and watch the cutscene. You now truly
have the PHANTOM SWORD! With the power of this blade, you can defeat Bellum and
kill Phantoms! Oh sweet! Attempt to leave and Oshus will get Ciela's attention.
He tells her that she has powers yet to discover. Hm...I wonder what that could
mean? Anyway, make your way all the way to the Temple of the Ocean King and
completely enter. This is the final time we need to traverse this place... (If
you want some extras, go ahead and enter and ignore the yellow portal.)

------------------------
TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Current objective: Reach Bellum and defeat him.

-----------
Main Floor
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You have 24 minutes! Just head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B1
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Remember that you can kill Phantoms now. Kill them both and a chest will appear
at the southwest corner. Open that for Treasure. Now head to the entrance and
there should be poles. Create a tightrope, stop at the center, and shoot the 
eye switch to make a large chest appear on the southeast corner. Head there
quickly and open it for a Courage Gem! Now get the small key and head 
downstairs.

-----------
Floor B2
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the two Phantoms here and a chest will appear in a notch in the 
southeastern structure. Open it for Treasure. Get the small key and open the
locked door like before, but don't go downstairs. Instead, bomb the wall to the
west of the door and walk through. Now have a Bombchu hit the switch past the
hole when the spiked log is on the left. A large chest will appear on the east
side, so hurry there and open it for a Wisdom Gem! Now you should have all the
Spirit Gems. Head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B3
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the two Phantoms to make a chest appear on a raised ledge on the 
southwestern structure. Grab the small key dropped and head up to that chest by
digging up the filled wind gust hole on the southeast, then Grappling to it. 
Open it for Treasure. Now instead of gathering the Force Gems, head to the 
northwestern area to see a higher ledge. Get north of the torches, create a 
tightrope between them, and fling yourself up. Enter the door, head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B4
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the Phantoms and shoot the eye switch to the northeast to turn off the 
wind gusts. Now, a chest should've appeared after killing the Phantoms. Open it
for Treasure. Get the small key. Now, for a shortcut. There's a locked door 
within the northwest corner. Send a Bombchu through there and make it hit the
switch to lower the spikes. Open that locked door and head down.

-----------
Floor B5
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You will end up in a corner of this room you haven't been in before. Dig up the
filled wind gust hole, rise to the switch, hit it to disable the wind gust
machine temporarily, and go to open the large chest for a Treasure Map! Hit the
switch to turn on the wind gust machine again, then use it to jump across. Head
downstairs.

-----------
Floor B6
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the Phantoms to make a chest appear on the south end. Go and open it for
Treasure. Now just head to the crest door and draw the Triforce again. Head
through and go downstairs.

-----------
Floor B7
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Go along the moving platforms like before, kill the Phantom at the end, go 
downstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the two Phantoms on this side, then head to the right side of the floor 
and kill the other Phantom to make a chest appear. Open it for a Ship Part! =D
Head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B7
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the other two Phantoms and a chest will appear on the left side. Get over
there and open it for a Ship Part. Return downstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Use a Bombchu to hit the switch in that little room in the northeast to open 
the door, head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B9
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Down here, kill the Wizzrobes to get them out of the way, and the Phantom. Get
the Ship Part from the chest that appears, and take the square crystal to the
pedestal in the northwest to lower the fires. Take the triangle crystal and 
take it to the middle north area. Go upstairs.

-----------
Floor B8
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Go upstairs on the east end.

-----------
Floor B7
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Hit the switch to the right, use the moving platforms to go to the north, grab
the round crystal, head downstairs twice.

-----------
Floor B9
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Take the round crystal to the middle north area, then the square one. Now put
the square one in first, then round, then triangle. Head through the door, then
back out.

-----------
Floor B10
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Go to the right, hop on the pole, and Grapple to the next. Then the next. Push
the boulder south to the Phantom to kill it. Now, on the north wall of the maze
area, is a Bombchu hole. Use a Bombchu to hit the switch on the other side,
lowering the spikes on the west. Kill the Phantom with the boulder to make a
small key available, and a chest to appear within the maze on the west safe 
zone. Grab the small key, head to the southwest corner, and pound the switch.

A large chest will appear on the east safe zone within the maze. There's 
another Bombchu hole down here. Send a Bombchu to the switch on the other side,
making some spikes within the maze lower. Get to the east side by Grappling
across, and bomb the wall to enter the maze. Kill the Phantom Eyes and open the
large chest for a Treasure Map, and the smaller chest for 100 Rupees. Once all
the Phantom Eyes are killed, a large chest will appear on the walls. To reach
it, return to the maze's entrance, get on the pole, and Grapple to the chest.
Open it for 100 Rupees! Open the locked door and head downstairs.

-----------
Floor B11
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Kill the Phantoms and Phantom Eyes. For killing the Phantoms, a chest appears.
Open it for 200 Rupees. Head downstairs on the right side.

-----------
Floor B12
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Down here, hit the switch to make a large chest appear temporarily. Sling 
yourself up, ignore the Phantom Eye, and go straight to the chest. Open it for
a Treasure Map! Now gather the Force Gems while you kill the Phantoms in the
process. The chest that appears contains 300 Rupees! Awesome! Now head 
downstairs.

-----------
Floor B13
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Phantoms will spawn. These are regular ones that constantly change their 
direction. Word of warning, make use of that red pot. Place it somewhere at the
floor where the Phantoms are, and swiftly hide there, constantly making noise
or hitting them with things to distract them, and slash them. It makes this a
whole lot easier. After the surge of Phantoms (of all kinds) the door further
down will open...
-----------

This is it...Bellum's resting place. Cross the bridge, and it will sink. A blue
portal will also appear if you want to get the stuff from the Treasure Maps 
that you've gotten. If you want to do all that, go ahead and read this 
paragraph. If not, skip to the next paragraph. Take the blue portal. Don't 
worry, now that we've taken it, we can always just warp right back there 
instead of traversing the temple again. Head outside and set sail. Salvage the
treasures, then head to Molida Island. Notice the small islets to the east? You
can reach them by getting onto the cliff beside Romanos's house using the cave.
Once you're up there, break open the barrel on the islet with an Arrow to 
reveal a Cucco. Grapple the Cucco to you, then use it to fly over to the islet 
with the dark spot on the ground. Dig it for the last Treasure Map! Now you can 
head to Spirit Island and upgrade all your spirits to their highest levels. 
Head back to the Temple of the Ocean King, and take the blue portal back down 
to Bellum's hideout.

Head up the looong staircase...and you'll arrive at a tall room. Bellum 
descends from the ceiling...and the final battle starts!

-----------
BOSS: Bellum, Evil Phantom
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
At first, Bellum will sink into the pool of dark water in the center. Its main
eye pointing upward, it occasionally spits out dark gooey enemies that 
strangely resemble Inglets in Metroid Prime 2, if you've played that game 
before. Don't worry, these are more of a boon to you than a bane, as they can
drop hearts when defeated. At any rate, your objective is to first get rid of
all the dark goo splotches on Bellum's body by using your Grappling Hook. Once
you've gotten rid of most of them, you'll be able to latch onto the body itself
and pull Bellum towards you, allowing you to slash repeatedly to damage it. It
may switch positions on you, so just move to him and keep slashing. If you 
didn't get it the first time, Bellum will have dark splotches on him again and
you will have to repeat it until this phase is over with.

Bellum will emerge from the water, and float just below the next level of the
floor with his tentacles keeping him up. Find the staircase and go up. This 
time, Bellum attacks by raising one of his tentacles and attempting to slam you
down. Occasionally those dark Inglet-like enemies drip off from the ceiling, so
free health. What you have to do here is switch to the Bow and shoot down the
eyes on the tentacles until they all close and appear purple. Doing so, Bellum
will drop back down into the dark water pool. Head down there quickly and 
repeat the first phase over again to damage him some more. Only this time he
spits out three Darklet (gonna call them that) enemies at a time instead of 
one. Once that's done, phase two will begin all over again, with him suspended
just below the second level. The only thing that's changed when you get back up
is Darklets blocking your path, and when you're up there, some of the 
tentacles' eyes close temporarily, preventing you from shooting them. Either
way, do the same thing as you did in the second phase. Another thing Bellum
might do is rise up and smash down all his tentacles down onto your floor. To
avoid it, just stand behind one of the pillars. Once all eyes have been sniped,
Bellum will raise himself another level.

Go up the staircase. This is basically a repeat of the second phase once again,
except Bellum summons the Darklets and the eyes close themselves much more
frequently. That and the tentacles also attack more frequently. So it's just a
bit harder version of phase two. Once all the eyes are shot, a scene occurs.
Bellum falls and spits out a glowing orb. Ciela approaches the orb...it shines,
and she feels weird. Oshus's image appears above Link and Ciela, and he tells
Ciela that the orb was another fragment of Ciela's power. Not only is she the
Spirit of Courage, she's also the Spirit of Time! Awesome! Head downstairs all
the way to the bottom, where Bellum is waiting. The third phase begins!

The staircase behind you crumbles off...it's a fight to the death now! Ciela
says that she'll prepare something called "Phantom Spheres." What these do is
let you use the Phantom Hourglass's full powers by stopping time! What you do,
is when Ciela summons a Phantom Sphere and gives it to you, use it by pressing
the button on the bottom. Four curved lines will appear on the screen, as if 
the four corners to a framed artwork. Draw a figure-eight (the shape of an 
hourglass) within that frame at a fast pace. If fast enough, the whole place 
will grey out except for Bellum and Link, and Bellum will be trapped briefly.
Before using this Phantom Sphere though, wait until Bellum is floating around.
Once you do it (for first-timers, it may take multiple tries...just don't get
discouraged) head over to Bellum's main eye and slash away! The best thing to
do is if you have the Spirit of Power equipped (level 2, assuming you followed
the guide all the way) and using the powerful Great Spin attack. Once repeated
enough times, Bellum will fall into the pool of dark water...the fight is 
finished!
-----------

Bellum may be down, but the temple is breaking apart! Things are falling down,
Link and Ciela almost get crushed...but time slows, and Link, along with Ciela,
get transported out. The scene changes to show Linebeck looking at Tetra. He
calls to Oshus, but finds that he's heavily meditating. Suddenly, Link appears
above, and falls right on top of Linebeck. Hilarious. Linebeck picks up Link
and shows him Tetra, who is changing. Her life force is coming back! She is
finally awakened! And somehow, she seems much more mellow than her usual 
self... Maybe it's her Zelda side showing?

Link and Tetra begin to try to hold hands, but all of a sudden Bellum's 
tentacles appear and snag her! Dang, Bellum isn't defeated yet!? A big rumble
takes place, and they all head outside. Yep, it's Bellum all right. The Ghost
Ship is here too. Bellum merges with the Ghost Ship, and various dark splotches
with eyes cover the ship. Linebeck will control the ship, while you take care
of the cannon! Time to start another battle!

-----------
BOSS: Possessed Ghost Ship
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Your objective is to shoot at the dark splotches on the ship and blast them 
off. They will occasionally fire purple orbs at you. Shoot those to gain ship
hearts when you need them. This is actually the only real time where the right
ship parts can help you, as a complete ship part "set" equipped will give you
more ship hearts to work with. If you don't have the right parts, you can pick
Save and Quit and choose to work on getting more ship parts, but it's doable
with even the standard four hearts of Linebeck's original ship. There's nothing
I can really say about the battle. Just beware that it can take a while. 
Remember that you may also have to shoot down the eyes that sprout up from the
Ghost Ship's deck as well. After a while, the Ghost Ship will get destroyed.
-----------

Linebeck will board the ship, but he suggests saving first. Go ahead and do so.
A scene will take over, Linebeck's boat approaching the Ghost Ship's remains.
Tetra is stranded on a far piece of the ship, with Bellum appearing from the
wreckage and knocking over a piece of the ship onto Linebeck's boat...with 
Oshus inside! Oh no! Link and Linebeck are distracted, and Bellum grabs ahold 
of Link, the Phantom Sword dropped. Link can't do anything, but in an attempt
of bravey, Linebeck picks up the sword and stabs one of Bellum's tentacles. 
Link and Tetra are dropped...after Link awakens, Linebeck is seen struggling
with Bellum, as he's being wrapped up in Bellum's tentacles. He throws the 
Phantom Sword back to Link...then he gets possessed.

-----------
FINAL BOSS: Phantom Knight, Possessed Linebeck
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Bellum has now possessed Linebeck, and is shaped in the form of a gallant 
knight. Actually it seems like a glorified and bigger version of the Phantom
enemy. The Phantom Knight will always face you, and will attack with sword 
slashes. Ciela tells you that Bellum's weakpoint is at the beast's back, and
will give you a Phantom Sphere. Work your magic and move to behind the 
Knight...there's no weak point. Confused, Ciela tries something and moves 
behind the Knight, and finds out that Bellum opens his eye every once in a 
while, and that's his weakpoint. The top screen changes to show this, but Ciela
gets captured in a tentacle, so she can't summon a Phantom Sphere.

What now then? Well, time for a sword duel. Avoid sword slashes from the 
Phantom Knight, and wait until he's open. Start slashing repeatedly until you
two clash swords. Rub the stylus until the Phantom Knight bends backwards as if
stunned. Slash him once and he kneels down, releasing his grip on Ciela long 
enough for her to spawn a Phantom Sphere. Now, prepare to stop time, and watch 
the top screen. When Bellum's eye is open, stop time immediately then rush to 
the back and slash like crazy. As before, this is much easier if done with the 
level 2 Spirit of Power equipped and using the Great Spin attack. Don't be 
afraid to use a potion here if you have one. Repeat until he's dead. Keep in
mind that the Phantom Knight may use a spin attack of his own. It's very hard
to dodge, but you can clank with it without getting damaged by timing your own
spin attack just right. You can do it, I know you can!
-----------

If you've beaten the Phantom Knight, congrats! Bellum is finally defeated, and
turns into Sand of Hours to be sealed within the Phantom Sword. Now you can
watch the ending. I won't spoil it for you, don't worry. All I can tell you is
that it's quite a surprising twist. See you around guys!

-------------
ITEM SUMMARY
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
COLLECTION (top screen):
Phantom Hourglass (25 minutes)
Phantom Sword
Wooden Shield
Bomb Bag (30)
Quiver (50)
Bombchu Bag (30)
Swordsman's Scroll

COLLECTION (bottom screen):
Spirit of Power (lvl. 2)
Spirit of Wisdom (lvl. 2)
Spirit of Courage (lvl. 2)
Sun Key
Ghost Key
King's Key
Regal Necklace

ITEMS: (shown left to right)
Boomerang
Bombs
Bow
Bombchus
Grappling Hook
Hammer
Shovel

SPIRIT GEMS:
Power: 20
Wisdom: 20
Courage: 20

TREASURE MAPS: 31

NEW HEART CONTAINERS: 13

Total Health: 16 Hearts
-------------
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                          Spoiler-Free Walkthrough                         |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
A spoiler-free version of the walkthrough above! Pretty simple. This is done in
the form of a list, seperated by sections. Each "task" has a checkmark box to
mark off what you did. The parts of the game that require you to return to the 
Temple of the Ocean King after a temple, will have the main walkthrough 
section's name, but will cover the next section of the main walkthrough as 
well. This is so that none of these sections are too short.

 _____________________________
/    Ghost Ship Adventure!    \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Once you can control Link, go speak to Oshus. [ ]

- Try to head to the port from all directions and talk to Oshus again. [ ]

- Grab the sword from the cave by Oshus's house. [ ]

- Go through the north cave to the port town. [ ]

- Find Linebeck and help him with various stuff. [ ]

- Head back to the port, solve the chart puzzle, and sail off to the Isle of
 Ember. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/

 _____________________________
/      Hot on the Trail       \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Find Astrid. [ ]

- Free Astrid. [ ]
- Enter the Temple of Fire, get the Boomerang, and acquire the Spirit of Power,
 along with the boss's Heart Container. [ ]

- Get Power Gem #2, then return to Mercay Island. [ ]

- Go through Temple of the Ocean King, go back to the dock, and solve the chart
 puzzle. [ ]

- Attempt to go through to the northwestern sea. [ ]

- Get Treasure Map #1, Power Gem #3, and Eddo's Cannon on Cannon Island. [ ]

- Follow Ghost Ship, sail to Molida Island. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/

 _____________________________
/       Slight of Wind        \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Get the Shovel and Treasure Map #2 on Molida Island. [ ]

- Grab Courage Gem #1 from Spirit Island. [ ]

- Collect Treasure Map #3 and Power Gem #1 (shop) at Mercay Island. [ ]

- Get Treasure Maps #4 and #5 at Isle of Ember. [ ]

- Get through the fog to reach Isle of Gust in the Northwestern Sea. [ ]

- Travel through Isle of Gust, getting Power Gem #4, Wisdom Gem #2, Courage Gem
 #2, and Treasure Maps #6 and #7. [ ]

- Enter the Temple of Fire, get the Bombs, grab Power Gem #5 and Courage Gem 
 #3, and acquire the Spirit of Wisdom, along with the boss's two minutes of 
 Sand of Hours and the Heart Container. [ ]

- Get Treasure Map #8 and a Bomb Bag upgrade at Bannan Island. (Wait a day 
 later on your DS clock to get Wisdom Gem #4 in the mail from Salvatore.) [ ]

- Get Treasure Map #9 and Wisdom Gem #3 at Zauz's Island. [ ]

- Grab Treasure Map #10 at Uncharted Island. Solve the puzzle on the island to
 get the Cyclone Slate in the cave. [ ]

- Get a Heart Container from the Northwestern Sea's Traveler's Ship, and Wisdom
 Gem #1 from Beedle's shop. [ ]

- Get Power Gems #6 and #7, and Wisdom Gem #5 at Mercay Island. [ ]

- Go through Temple of the Ocean King, getting Power Gem #8 on B4, and solve
 the chart puzzle at the end. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/

 _____________________________
/    Courageous Salvaging     \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Get Treasure Map #11 at Mercay, get Wisdom Gem #6 from Astrid, then buy 
 Eddo's Cannon. Salvage all the treasures from the Treasure Maps that you 
 collected. [ ]

- Work on getting the Fishing Rod at Bannan Island. [ ]

- Get Wisdom Gem #7 on Molida Island while heading towards the Temple of 
 Courage. Figure out the puzzle to open the Temple. [ ]

- Enter the Temple of Courage, get the Bow, grab Power Gems #9 and #10, Wisdom
 Gem #8, and Courage Gem #4. Acquire the Spirit of Courage, along with boss's
 two minutes of Sand of Hours and the Heart Container. [ ]

- Get Quiver upgrade and Heart Container at Romanos's archery game. [ ]

- Actually get the Spirit of Courage, and upgrade the Spirit of Power. [ ]

- Enter the Ghost Ship, and get the Ghost Key and a Heart Container. [ ]

- Get Courage Gem #5, last Bomb Bag upgrade at Beedle's shop, and Wisdom Gem #9
 at Bannan Island. [ ]

- Grab Courage Gem #6 at Mercay Island from the same cave that led to Wisdom
 Gem #5. [ ]

- Go through Temple of the Ocean King, getting both sea charts, and Power Gems
 #11 and #12, Wisdom Gem #10, Courage Gem #7, and Treasure Map #12. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/

 _____________________________
/      The Three Metals       \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Get the Heart Container from fishing. [ ]

- Grab the Swordsman's Scroll from the Traveler's Ship trading quest. (And the
 Prize Postcard and Treasure Map #13 from the Man of Smiles.) [ ]

- Land at Goron Island, getting Treasure Map #14, Wisdom Gem #11 from the quiz,
 and Power Gem #13 at the maze. [ ]

- Go through Goron Temple, get the Bombchus, and Treasure Map #15. Acquire the
 Crimsonine, along with boss's two minutes and the Heart Container. [ ]

- Get Treasure Map #16 and Biggoron's reward at Goron Island. [ ]

- Grab Courage Gems #8 and #9 at Dee Ess Island, along with lots of Rupees dug
 up from the ground. [ ]

- Sail to Isle of Frost, clearing the ice surrounding it, and dock. Get Courage
 Gem #10 from Gongoron's letter a day after beating Goron Temple (just set the
 DS calendar a day forward), Treasure Map #17, then gain access to Temple of 
 Ice. [ ]

- Go through Temple of Ice, get the Grappling Hook, and Wisdom Gems #12 and 
 #13. Acquire the Azurine, along with boss's two minutes and the Heart 
 Container. [ ]

- Get Power Gem #14, Wisdom Gem #14 from a letter a day after beating Temple of
 Ice (change the DS clock), Wisdom Gem #15 from a chest, and random Rupee 
 treasures at Anouki Estates on Isle of Frost. [ ]

- Get a Bombchu Bag upgrade from Dee Ess Island's Goron Game. [ ]

- Grab Treasure Maps #18, #19, #20, and #21 from Harrow Island. [ ]

- Get Courage Gem #11 and buy a Bombchu Bag upgrade at Goron Island. [ ]

- Get Courage Gem #12 at Isle of Ember. [ ]

- Grab Treasure Map #22, and buy a Heart Container at Mercay Island. [ ]

- Get Treasure Map #23, Power Gem #15, and Courage Gem #13 at Molida Island.[ ]

- Upgrade Spirit of Courage at Spirit Island, get Power Gem #16. [ ]

- Collect Courage Gem #14 at Uncharted Island. [ ]

- Get Power Gem #17, Courage Gem #15, and Treasure Map #24 at Bannan Island.[ ]

- Solve the puzzle at Isle of the Dead, while getting Courage Gem #16, Treasure
 Maps #25 and #26, and Power Gem #18. [ ]

- Gain access to Mutoh's Temple at Isle of Ruins. Along the way, get Wisdom 
 Gems #16 and #17, Power Gem #19, and Courage Gem #17. [ ]

- Go through Mutoh's Temple, get the Hammer, and Courage Gem #18. Acquire the
 Aquanine, along with boss's two minutes and the Heart Container. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/

 _____________________________
/   Forging Bellum's Defeat   \________ _ _ _  _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
- Get the final Power Gem from Mutoh in the mail a day after you finished 
 Mutoh's Temple. [ ]

- Deposit the pure metals to Zauz, challenge Jolene to one final fight, then 
 get the Phantom Sword's blade. Return to Oshus to have the handle prepared and
 completely acquire the Phantom Sword. [ ]

- Go on Maze Island and get Wisdom Gems #18 and #19, Treasure Map #27, and a
 Heart Container. [ ]

- Buy Courage Gem #19 and a Heart Container at the Masked Ship shops at sea.[ ]

- Go through Temple of the Ocean King, killing Phantoms and solving puzzles 
 with your new items to get the final Courage Gem, the final Wisdom Gem, and
 Treasure Maps #28, #29, and #30. [ ]

- Go back to the surface once you reach the bottom, upgrade all your Spirits,
 and salvage all Treasure Map treasures. [ ]

- Warp back to the bottom of the Temple of the Ocean King, defeat Bellum. [ ]
                               ________ _ _ _  _
\_____________________________/
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                            Heart Container List                           |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unlike Pieces of Heart, this game has you gaining health completely in the form
of Heart Containers, ala Legend of Zelda and Zelda II: Adventure of Link, both
on the NES. Considering this, note that you start off with three hearts of 
health. Therefore, the first one listed is the first new Heart Container you
can grab. This does not include Heart Containers gotten from bosses, since 
those are self-explanatory. Each Heart Container will have a checkmark box to
mark them off. You can have a total of 16 hearts for your health bar in this 
game.

------------------------
Heart Container #1: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Traveler's Ship
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Board the Traveler's Ship to find yourself on the Prince of Red
 Lions, and a guy named Nyeve that dresses just like Link. Humor him to become
 his apprentice, and talk to him to start sword training. He won't take many
 hits at all, but he'll give you Treasure. Get off the boat and dock back at 
 it to attempt sword training. Keep leaving and re-docking the boat during 
 sword training until he dares you to see how many times you can hit him before
 he hits you three times. Hit him up to 100 times at this point and let him 
 strike you three times and you will get this for your fine swordsmanship. An
 added note, if you keep going there and beating the record, you'll gain 
 Treasure and Ship Parts from him. To get the most out of it, just beat your
 record by one point each time.

------------------------
Heart Container #2: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Bow, lots of patience and Rupees

How to get: When you first visit Molida Island, make sure to talk to Romanos
 after getting the Shovel and reading the Wayfarer's journal in his secret
 hideaway beneath the palm tree. When you beat the Temple of Courage and have
 the Bow, return to Romanos and he will have an archery game open. Read the 
 rules and get 2000 points to get this Container, after getting the Quiver 
 upgrade for beating 1700 points.

------------------------
Heart Container #3: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Fishing Pole

How to get: Acquire the Fishing Pole (see the Collection part in the items) and
 start fishing in the seas until you find a Loovar. Your best bet is to wait 
 until you have access to all four segments of the sea. Once you do, take the
 Loovar to the Wayfarer on Bannan Island to upgrade your Fishing Pole with the
 Big Catch Lure, which allows you to fish up larger fish. Keep fishing until 
 you find a Rusty Swordfish, and take it to the Wayfarer. Now keep fishing one
 last time, but this time look for special swordfish shadows that may appear on
 the sea. You're looking for a large blue swordfish named Neptoona. Once you
 caught it, (Rusty Swordfish can appear in the swordfish shadows, keep in mind)
 return to the Wayfarer to get this.

------------------------
Heart Container #4: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any island shop
Equipment Needed: Lots of Rupees

How to get: As you gain items from dungeons (Bombs, Bow, Bombchus) the island
 shops get capacity upgrades for those items. Buy the Bomb Bag upgrade first,
 then the Quiver upgrade will be available once you have the Bow. Buy that, and
 the Bombchu Bag upgrade will be available once you have the Bombchus. Buy 
 that, and this Heart Container will be available for purchase. Each upgrade
 costs 1000 Rupees, but this Heart Container costs 2000. Hope you have the 
 cash!

------------------------
Heart Container #5: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Maze Island
Equipment Needed: Bow, Grappling Hook

How to get: Finish the Expert difficulty maze to get this. Grappling Hook is
 needed to fling yourself to a Gossip Stone.

------------------------
Heart Container #6: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any sea, Masked Ship
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: When the DS clock is set between 10:00 PM to 12:00 AM on weekdays,
 or between 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM on weekends, the Masked Ship will have a high
 chance of appearing at Sea. If you're at Sea when the time comes, dock at an
 island and head back out. The Masked Ship has this for sale for 1500 Rupees.
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                              Spirit Gem List                              |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Seemingly put in the game as a replacement to Heart Pieces, these are an even
better collectible, as once enough are collected, you can take them to Spirit
Island to upgrade one of the Spirits you have gotten in the game. There are 
three spirits, each representing the three powers of the Triforce: Power, 
Wisdom, and Courage. You will have them all once you finish the first three 
temples. As such, there are three kinds of Spirit Gems to coincide with these 
spirits. It takes 10 of a specific kind of Spirit Gem to upgrade a spirit, and
each can be upgraded twice, making for 20 of each kind of Spirit Gem, 60 in
total. The spirits (which are guardian fairies for Link) can be switched 
between in the Collection screen once they're leveled up. The upgrades are:

------------------------
Leaf, Spirit of Power
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Level 1: Link's sword glows red, doubling his attack power.
Level 2: Link's sword glows with an awesome power, its burning grip telling you
 to defeat enemies with quadruple attack strength! (Props if you can get the
 reference.)

------------------------
Neri, Spirit of Wisdom
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Level 1: Link's defense is doubled, halving the damage Link takes. Kinda like
 the Blue Ring in The Legend of Zelda (NES).
Level 2: Link's defense is extremely upped, reducing the damage Link takes to
 a quarter than normal. Kinda like the Red Ring in The Legend of Zelda.

*Added Note: Link's shield also powers up, which lets him block heavier 
 attacks. Kinda like a shield upgrade as well.*

------------------------
Ciela, Spirit of Courage
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Level 1: A beam can shoot out of Link's sword when swung.
Level 2: The beam's width is widened, allowing for a stronger attack range.

------------------------

And that's it for those. The upgrades are quite useful, really. I find myself
using Leaf's power moreso than the others though. Anyway, below are the 
listings of each kind of Spirit Gem, ordered by availability. Each Spirit Gem
will have a checkmark box to mark them off as you go along.

\_____________________________________
Power Gems         /                  \
-------------------

------------------------
Power Gem #1: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any island
Equipment Needed: Just Rupees

How to get: Just go to a shop on any island and purchase this for 500 Rupees.

------------------------
Power Gem #2: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Isle of Ember
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Once you clear the Temple of Fire, return to Astrid and talk to 
 her. She will reward you with this.

------------------------
Power Gem #3: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Cannon Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Inside the cave in the island, there's a cracked wall that's a 
 little out of the way of everything else. To blow it up, either wait until you
 have bombs, or carry a bomb flower from the "corral" section and throw it at
 the wall just in time. Inside is a chest that holds this.

------------------------
Power Gem #4: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: In the southwest area with a bunch of filled up holes, there's a
 ledge with a chest. Dig up the nearby filled hole, use the wind to get carried
 up there, and open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #5: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the Temple of Wind, go to floor B2, the one filled with 
 Sandworms. The very west side of the floor has a chest against the wall. Open
 it for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #6: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Clear the Temple of Wind first, then go speak to Oshus at his house
 on Mercay. He'll give you this Gem. If Oshus isn't there (you're near the end
 of the game if so), go to the bar and the bar owner will give you this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #7: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Along the way to the Temple of the Ocean King, you may spot a 
 cracked wall. Bomb it open and enter the cave. Inside, kill the Rats and hop
 along the platforms on the water until you reach a chest. Open it for this 
 Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #8: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Boomerang

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B4. Kill all the 
 Phantom Eyes by stunning them with the Boomerang then slashing them, and a 
 large chest will appear on the east side of the room. Open that chest for this
 Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #9: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: In the Temple of Courage, go to the northwest rooms on 1F. Between
 the two stone tablets is a weak wall. Bomb it and head inside. The right chest
 holds this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #10: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Bow

How to get: In the Temple of Courage, go to the southern rooms on 2F. In the
 middle with all the moving platforms, you will have to shoot two eye switches
 on the north wall to make a chest appear on the ledge in the middle. Take 
 platforms to it and open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #11: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Bow

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, head to B3. Once there, get on the
 southeastern raised ledge with the switches that activate trap doors. Shoot an
 arrow at the eye switch to the north to make a large chest appear near where 
 you drop off the Force Gems. Head there quickly before the chest disappears 
 and open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #12: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Boomerang

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, head to B7. On the north end of
 the eastern side of the floor, there is a wooden pole. Get on top of it (tap
 it) and use the Boomerang to hit the switch to the south. This makes a large
 chest appear temporarily. Head to it and open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #13: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: Once you reach the maze in the northeast portion of the island, 
 blast away the left cracked wall. Pass through it, take the left fork, then
 step on the switch to lower spikes. Go back to the maze entrance and blast
 away the right cracked wall. Follow the path until you see a dark marking on
 the ground on the other side of a wall. Bomb the wall there to blast away an
 opening, exit the maze, and go south to re-enter it. Open the chest for this.

------------------------
Power Gem #14: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Isle of Frost
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: At the area where the entrance to the Temple of Ice is, get to the
 top of the west cliff by standing on a nearby pole and using the Grappling 
 Hook to drag you to a higher pole, and continuing to do that until you reach
 the top. Head south once you do, and at the next area, Hook over to the east
 side. Head south some more and you will see a chest on a lower ledge. Drop to
 it and open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #15: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: Enter the cave by Romanos's hut. Hop across those platforms that
 lead to the east, but stop at the final one. Use the Grappling Hook on the 
 chest to the east to drag yourself there, then open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #16: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Spirit Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: Past the spirit cave on the island, to the east, is the rest of the
 island. Use the Grappling Hook to Hook across, then follow the linear path of
 obstacles and enemies until you reach this, which is inside a chest.

------------------------
Power Gem #17: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: Right as you dock, there's a small islet nearby. Grapple to it and
 open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #18: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of the Dead
Equipment Needed: Shovel, Bombs

How to get: Find the secret cave to the graveyard of the island through the
 northeast temple's stone tablet hint, and you will see a cracked wall right
 where you drop. Bomb it open and head inside. Open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Power Gem #19: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of Ruins
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After the water has been drained of the island, head into the 
 southwest maze. Reach the northeast edge of the maze to find a chest. Open it
 for this Gem!

------------------------
Power Gem #20: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After clearing Mutoh's Temple, boot the game up a day afterwards 
 (or set the DS clock a day forward) and you will get a letter from King Mutoh.
 Packaged with it is this last Gem.

\_____________________________________
Wisdom Gems        /                  \
-------------------

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #1: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any sea, Beedle's Shop Ship
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: You can buy this Wisdom Gem from Beedle for 500 Rupees. This is 
 also worth 5 points on your Beedle Customer Card.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #2: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the main cave of the Isle of Gust (the one south of the temple)
 open the chest amidst the Miniblin horde room to get this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #3: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Zauz's Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Snag one of the Cucco's within Zauz's property, and jump off the
 east side of this raised ledge of Zauz's to end up on a smaller raised ledge.
 Open the chest there for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #4: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Play Salvatore's game on Bannan Island at least once (doesn't 
 matter if you beat the record) and, a real day later, you will get a letter
 from him in the mail with this Gem packaged with it.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #5: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: Exit the port town via the path leading to the Temple of the Ocean
 King. In this area, find a lone tree at the edge of the island that is close
 to a higher ledge on its left. It's kinda hard to describe, but if you found
 it, bomb the walls of that ledge until you blow open a cave entrance. Head 
 inside, cross the cave, and end up on Freedle's Isle, a small islet northeast
 of Mercay Island. Climb up to Freedle and look around for a chest. Open it for
 this Gem. If you can't find that weak wall, wait until you have the Bow, and
 blast open the cracked wall near the Temple with a bomb. Get that Power Gem if
 you haven't already, and shoot the eye switch. Follow the path and you will 
 get outside. Move the statue to point northwest after hitting it and it will
 point to that weak wall.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #6: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Isle of Ember
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After clearing Temple of Wind, return to Astrid at Isle of Ember
 and ask her to tell your fortune. She will give you this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #7: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Once you have the Sun Key, make your way to the Temple of Courage
 from the Wayfarer's secret hideaway. When you emerge from the cave, you might
 see a patch of cracked ground right beside you. Dig in that spot to reveal a
 hole. Fall through to find a chest. Open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #8: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Boomerang, Bow

How to get: In the Temple of Courage, head to the east ledge on B1. Make the 
 gem face north by hitting it with the Boomerang until it does, then shoot it
 with an arrow. It will redirect the arrow to eventually hit an eye switch, 
 making a chest appear on your ledge. Open it for this.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #9: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Jolene's Letter

How to get: During your travels, you may get a letter from Jolene in the mail.
 The problem is that it's actually meant for Joanne, her sister on Bannan 
 Island. The Postman gives you the letter and trusts that you deliver it for
 him. After getting the Fishing Pole item, go see Joanne and hand her the 
 letter to get this.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #10: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B9. There, kill all
 the Wizzrobes (the ones that steal your time) and a large chest will appear
 somewhere in the middle of the room. Open that chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #11: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Just finish Biggoron's quiz to become a member of the Goron tribe
 and he will reward you with this.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #12: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Isle of Frost
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: In the Temple of Ice, head to 3F. Up on this floor, find a way onto
 the upper ledges, and follow the ice bridges until you see a color switch. Hit
 it by throwing a Bomb down onto it to lower the blue blocks. Fall down to the
 north, and open the chest that's now available for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #13: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Isle of Frost
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: In the Temple of Ice, head to B1. Get a small key from the small
 southeastern section (pull the lever nearby with the Grappling Hook, then pull
 the tongue statue as far as it can go to melt the ice temporarily so you can
 get the key) and use it to unlock the locked door in the northeast. Inside the
 room is this Gem inside a chest.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #14: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After clearing the Temple of Ice, boot the game up a real day later
 to get a letter from Aroo in the Postbox. Packaged with the letter is this 
 Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #15: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Isle of Frost
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: North of Linebeck's ship is a ledge you can climb up on. North of
 that is a chest. Use the Grappling Hook on the chest to get pulled over there,
 and open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #16: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of Ruins
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After the island has been drained of water, make your way to Max's
 Temple until you reach a boulder on a raised ledge where you can push it south
 or east. Push it east after you line it up with the tiles to break a boulder,
 and head up that path to find a chest. Open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #17: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of Ruins
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After the island has been drained of water, make your way to the
 cave on the north side of the island, as if you were going back to Doylan's
 Temple. Inside that cave, open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #18: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Maze Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: Start the maze and make your way to the east where a part of it is
 seemingly closed off from the rest. There's a chest inside that area. Bomb its
 south wall to blast it away, and open the chest for this.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #19: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Maze Island
Equipment Needed: Bow (Bombs are helpful)

How to get: Win the Beginner difficulty maze to get this. You need the Bow for
 one part of the maze. Bombs just help with shortcuts.

------------------------
Wisdom Gem #20: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs, Bombchus

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, head to floor B2. Bomb the wall at
 the northwestern area, then send a Bombchu to hit the switch past the Bombchu
 hole to make a large chest appear. Hurry to it and open it for this Gem.

\_____________________________________
Courage Gems       /                  \
-------------------

------------------------
Courage Gem #1: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Spirit Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Right where you dock, there's a cave surrounded by a bunch of 
 grass. Right of all that grass is a treasure chest. Open it for this gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #2: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: none

How to get: On the southeastern side of the island is a little area filled with
 Miniblins. It's above the where you first use the wind to help jump across 
 gaps. Use a bomb flower to blast open the cracked wall down here and enter the
 cave. Inside is a chest that contains this Gem, along with other things of
 interest.

------------------------
Courage Gem #3: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the Temple of Wind, go to floor B1. Within the central large 
 room is a ledge on its right that has a line of wind gusts coming out of the
 floor. Without having any of them blocked, have the wind carry you north to a
 chest. Open it for this.

------------------------
Courage Gem #4: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: In the Temple of Courage, in the room just before the boss (past 
 the boss door, obviously) go behind the stairs that lead to the boss to find a 
 cracked wall. Blast it open with a bomb and head inside the hidden room to 
 find a chest that contains this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #5: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any sea
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Get boarded by a pirate ship (not Jolene's) for the first time. 
 Fend them off and Linebeck will give this to you.

------------------------
Courage Gem #6: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Boomerang, Bombs (maybe Bow)

How to get: Find the weak wall on the very north side of Mercay Island. If you
 can't find it, bomb the cracked wall near the Temple of the Ocean King, and 
 shoot the eye switch inside. Follow it outside. Here, draw a line on your map
 that connects the entrance to that cave you just went through with the Temple,
 and find the statue up here. Strike it, then rotate it so that its laser is
 parallel with the line you drew. Where the laser points to is where the weak
 wall is. Bomb that, head inside, and find a switch south of the bridge. Hit it
 with the Boomerang to make a chest containing this Gem to appear.

------------------------
Courage Gem #7: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, head to floor B8. Place the round
 crystal (found in B7) and the triangle crystal (found in B9) at their 
 respective places to make a chest appear over the gap on the north side. Get
 on the ledge north of the chest and simply walk along the gap to the chest. 
 Open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #8: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Dee Ess Island
Equipment Needed: Bow

How to get: Drop into the "top screen" of the island and fight off some Eye
 Brutes. Once they're gone, a chest will appear. Open it for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #9: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Dee Ess Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Drop into the "touch screen" of the island and use the Shovel to
 dig in the very lower-left corner to find this.

------------------------
Courage Gem #10: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Boot up the game a real day later after clearing the Goron Temple,
 and you will have a letter from Gongoron in the mail. This Gem is packaged 
 with the mail.

------------------------
Courage Gem #11: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: On the ledge with the Goron who wanted you to take down the Yellow
 ChuChus, look to the southwest to see a rock on a ledge. Get over there with
 the Grappling Hook, and open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #12: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Isle of Ember
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: There is a small islet on the north side of the island. You can get
 onto it by Grappling the chest on the islet. Open that chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #13: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: West of the Temple of Courage is a small islet with a chest and a
 pole. Nearby the temple is another pole. Use the Grappling Hook to create a
 tightrope between the two poles, and cross it. Open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #14: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Uncharted Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: Enter the Golden Chief's cave on the island, and look right to spot
 a pole. Create a tightrope from that pole to a pole on a ledge northeast of
 here, then walk across. Open the chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #15: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook

How to get: On the eastern side of the island, create a Grappling Hook 
 tightrope from Salvatore to the larger islet to the north. Open the right 
 chest for this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #16: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of the Dead
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: In the cave near where you dock, Bomb the northern walls to find a
 weak wall. Head inside and you will see a Rupoor maze. Head through it 
 carefully to reach the end, where the payload is! This Gem is in one of the
 chests.

------------------------
Courage Gem #17: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of Ruins
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Once the water has drained from the island, explore the eastern 
 ground around Doylan's Temple to find a chest. Open it to get this Gem.

------------------------
Courage Gem #18: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of Ruins
Equipment Needed: Hammer

How to get: In Mutoh's Temple, go to floor B2. On the southwest edge of the
 floor, open the chest around the corner in the small hall to get this Gem. 
 First time getting there, you need the Hammer.

------------------------
Courage Gem #19: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Any sea, Masked Ship
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: When the DS clock is set between 10:00 PM to 12:00 AM on weekdays,
 or between 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM on weekends, the Masked Ship will have a high
 chance of appearing at Sea. If you're at Sea when the time comes, dock at an
 island and head back out. The Masked Ship has this Gem for sale for 500 
 Rupees.

------------------------
Courage Gem #20: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook, Bow

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B1. At the center
 entrance to it, create a tightrope along the poles to your left, get on it,
 and shoot the eye switch to the north. A large chest appears temporarily. Head
 there and open it for this!
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                               Treasure Maps                               |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Like Wind Waker, this game has Treasure Charts that, when gotten, reveal sunken
treasure within the Great Sea in the form of an X on the Sea Chart. I will put
checkmark boxes beside each chart (there are 31 in all) just in case you want 
to print this out.

------------------------
Treasure Map #1: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Cannon Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: While venturing through the island, there's a path that leads into
 the small forest. Take that and open the chest for this map.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, southwest of Molida Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #2: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Dig in front of the palm tree that's behind the second house to
 find a secret cave. Drop down and open the chest for this map.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, northeast of Mercay Island
Prize: One minute for Phantom Hourglass

------------------------
Treasure Map #3: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Dig in front of the tree that's near the cave near Oshus's house.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, southeast of Isle of Gust
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #4: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Isle of Ember
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Dig the cracked spots in the ground of Astrid's house's basement to
 find this.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, southwest of Isle of Gust
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #5: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Isle of Ember
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: There's a lone patch of grass on the east side of the mountain, the
 same level that the Temple of Fire's entrance is located. Use the Shovel to
 dig that grass up to find this. (Hint: To be able to salvage this map's 
 treasure, you will need to have access to the Northeastern Sea.)

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, southeast of Bannan Island
Prize: One minute for Phantom Hourglass

------------------------
Treasure Map #6: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the main cave of the Isle of Gust (the one south of the temple)
 kill all the Miniblins in the big square room to make a chest appear aside 
 from the already existing one. Open that new chest for this map.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, south of Uncharted Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #7: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Isle of Gust
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: In the big northern area with the windmills and Sandworms, get to
 the southeast end of that area to find a chest. Open it for this map.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, southeast of Mercay Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #8: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: In front of The Wayfarer's house is a sign. Dig just to the left of
 the sign to find this.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, northwest of Molida Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #9: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Zauz's Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: There's a stone tablet on the north side of the island that tells
 you to do this: Mark down on your map the four lone stone tiles. Connect the
 eastern ones together with a drawn line, and do the same for the western ones.
 Continue to draw those lines southward all the way, and you'll notice that the
 two lines intersect. Use the Shovel to dig around the area where the lines 
 intersect to find this Map. For further reference, it's just south of the dirt
 path.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, north of Molida Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #10: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Uncharted Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: From the boat, walk north until you see a Gossip Stone with a small
 pool of water behind it. This is the island's "eye." (The island is shaped 
 like a whale.) Dig in front of this Gossip Stone to get this Map.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, west of Bannan Island
Prize: Treasure/Rupees

------------------------
Treasure Map #11: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: After going through the Temple of the Ocean King after the Temple 
 of Wind is cleared, the man in green on the dock in Mercay's port town may
 call out to you. Talk to him and say that "yes" you do have a Salvage Arm 
 (regardless of if you actually have one) and he will offer to sell you this 
 Map for 50 Rupees.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, southwest of Cannon Island
Prize: One minute for Phantom Hourglass

------------------------
Treasure Map #12: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Bow

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, head to floor B6. From the B5 
 entrance to this floor, head left to find a gap on your north. Shoot the eye
 switch across that gap with an arrow to make a large chest appear on the 
 northeast side of the floor. Head over there and open the chest for this Map.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, north of Isle of Gust
Prize: One minute for Phantom Hourglass

------------------------
Treasure Map #13: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Traveler's Ship
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Board the Traveler's Ship on the Northeastern Sea and kill all the
 enemies. The Man of Smiles will appear. Talk to him until he offers a gift,
 and choose the mysterious thing. You'll get the Hero's New Clothes (for a
 trading quest) and this Treasure Map, which is the normal thing, actually.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, west of Isle of Ruins rocky barrier
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #14: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel, Bow

How to get: Around the middle of the island are Yellow ChuChus on an 
 unreachable ledge. Just north of that ledge is a child Goron that wants you to
 take care of them. Get up on the nearby raised ledge by digging up the wind
 gust hole, then snipe the Yellow ChuChus with the Bow to get this from the 
 child.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, southwest of the middle line of rocks
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #15: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: In the Goron Temple, go to the north side of floor 1F. The switch
 in the quicksand makes a chest appear for a very short time on the highest
 northeast ledge. To get to it, throw a bomb at the switch from above, the 
 easiest way to do it being on the bridge. Open that chest in time to get this
 Map.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, far northeast of Dee Ess Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #16: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Goron Island
Equipment Needed: Bombchus

How to get: In the maze area of the island, there's a switch that's past a 
 small hole. Use a Bombchu to reach that switch and make a chest appear at the
 northeast part of the island. Head there quickly and open it for this.

Treasure location: Southwestern Sea, south of Cannon Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #17: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Isle of Frost
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Surrounding the Anouki Estates are four small islets. Dig in the
 center of the southwestern one to find this one.

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, west of Uncharted Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #18: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Harrow Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Play the Digging Game and you may get this as a random prize.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, northwest of Goron Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #19: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Harrow Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Play the Digging Game and you may get this as a random prize.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, west of Goron Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #20: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Harrow Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Play the Digging Game and you may get this as a random prize.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, southwest of the Isle of Ruins
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #21: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southeastern Sea, Harrow Island
Equipment Needed: Shovel

How to get: Play the Digging Game and you may get this as a random prize.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, southeast of the Isle of the Dead
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #22: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: All four Sea Charts

How to get: Get all four Sea Charts, then visit Freedle on the northeast islet
 from the island. He'll give you this.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, north of Dee Ess Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #23: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: Sometime after the Ghost Ship "dungeon" has been completed, talking
 to the little girl in the red dress by the dock of Molida Island will get you
 this Map.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, east of Harrow Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #24: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northwestern Sea, Bannan Island
Equipment Needed: Grappling Hook, Shovel

How to get: On the east side of the island, create a Grappling Hook tightrope
 from here to the larger of the two islets to the north, and cross it. Use the
 Shovel to dig between the two chests to get this Map.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, south of Harrow Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #25: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of the Dead
Equipment Needed: Bombs

How to get: By the dock, is the explorer's cave. Inside, bomb the northern 
 walls near the west exit to find a weak wall blasted away. Enter. Navigate the
 maze of Rupoors to find chests. This is in one of the chests.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, northwest of Isle of Ruins
Prize: Treasure/Rupees

------------------------
Treasure Map #26: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Isle of the Dead
Equipment Needed: None

How to get: On the high east ledge where you have to shoot the switch to the
 west to open the graveyard, open the chest up here for this Map.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, far west of Maze Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #27: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Northeastern Sea, Maze Island
Equipment Needed: Bow

How to get: Win the Normal difficulty maze to get this. Bow is required for a
 lot of the things in the maze.

Treasure location: Northeastern sea, east of Maze Island
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #28: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Bombchus

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B4. Collect the small
 key, and use Bombchus to open up the northwest corner. Open the locked door 
 and head downstairs. Here, hit the switch after digging up the wind gust hole
 to disable a wind gust machine blocking a large chest. Open that chest for 
 this Map.

Treasure location: Southeastern Sea, northwest of Isle of Frost
Prize: One minute for Phantom Hourglass

------------------------
Treasure Map #29: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Hammer

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B10. On the southwest
 corner is a rusted switch. Hammer it and a large chest will appear. Go to open
 it for this Map.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, south of Isle of Ruins
Prize: Ship Part

------------------------
Treasure Map #30: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Mercay Island
Equipment Needed: Hammer

How to get: In the Temple of the Ocean King, go to floor B12 by way of B11's
 right entrance. (If it's not open, activate the switches on each of the four
 raised ledges.) In here, hit the switch, sling yourself over the enclosed 
 room, and head to the large chest that appeared quickly for this Map.

Treasure location: Northeastern Sea, far south of Isle of the Dead
Prize: Rupees/Treasure

------------------------
Treasure Map #31: [ ]
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Location: Southwestern Sea, Molida Island
Equipment Needed: Bow, Shovel

How to get: On Molida Island are some small islets on the southeast of the 
 island. To reach them, get onto the cliff beside Romanos's house first of all,
 and look east to see a barrel. Shoot the barrel with an Arrow to break it,
 revealing a Cucco. Grapple it to you, then grab it. Use it to fly to the small
 islets. One of them has a dark cracked spot. Dig there for this Map!

Treasure location: Northwestern Sea, east of Bannan Island
Prize: Ship Part
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                 Ship Parts                                |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ship parts...Collect enough of them, and you will be able to customize the ship
you use in the game using the Shipyard at Mercay Island. It's really just 
something to change up your ship. An added feature of this though is that the
ship's durability (health) will increase if you put parts of the same set on
the ship. Here's a hint on those treasure chests: The ship part you get is 
random, but it's always the same type. Like... a chest will have a Stone 
Chimney. Another time, it might have an Elegant Chimney. It will always have a 
chimney ship part. Only on one file though, and this applies to the treasure 
chests that reset, which are mainly in the Temple of the Ocean King.

The ship parts (and treasure) can be appraised and sold at a special shop in
Mercay Island. The prices for any ship part is random, so what may be "trash"
on your game is "treasure" on another person's game, or vice versa. This is the
beauty of the trading system in the game, also featured on Mercay Island. 
However, I don't get too in-depth with the system on this guide, nor with any
online component of the game, so check other guides for more information.

\_____________________________________
List by Type       /                  \
-------------------

------------------------
Prow:
¯¯¯¯
Passable Prow
Bell Prow
Drill Prow
Mermaid Prow
Log Prow
Demon Prow
Tropical Prow
Tourist Prow
Golden Prow

------------------------
Anchor:
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Normal Anchor
Bell Anchor
Iron Anchor
Ancient Anchor
Swim Ring
Sickle Anchor
Shell Anchor
Weighty Anchor
Gem Anchor

------------------------
Hull:
¯¯¯¯
Standard Hull
Bright Hull
Iron Hull
Stone Hull
Vintage Hull
Demon Ship
Tropical Ship
Dignified Ship
Golden Hull

------------------------
Cannon:
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Eddo's Cannon
Artistic Cannon
Strong Cannon
Ancient Cannon
Meager Cannon
Fear Cannon
Seapony Cannon
Red Cannon
Golden Cannon

------------------------
Handrail:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Simple Handrail
Arch Handrail
Chain Handrail
Pillar Handrail
Worn Handrail
Spike Handrail
Wood Handrail
Utility Handrail
Golden Handrail

------------------------
Bridge:
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Steady Bridge
Restful Cabin
Conning Tower
Peaceful Bridge
Barrel Shack
Demon Prison
Shell Apartment
Practical Bridge
Golden Bridge

------------------------
Chimney:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Normal Chimney
Elegant Chimney
Parasol Chimney
Stone Chimney
Strange Chimney
Demon Chimney
Horn Chimney
Tall Chimney
Golden Chimney

------------------------
Wheel:
¯¯¯¯¯
Normal Wheel
Paddling Wheel
Battle Wheel
Rock Wheel
Simple Wheel
Insect Wheel
Shell Wheel
Golden Wheel

\_____________________________________
List by Set        /                  \
-------------------
Each set gives you more hearts for your ship. The more your equipped ship parts
have in common with each other, the more hearts you get. If you complete a set,
you get up to 7 hearts for your ship. However, if you manage to gather all 
Golden Ship Parts and set them on your ship, you'll have a grand total of 8 
hearts. Obviously the Golden Parts are pretty valuable.

------------------------
Standard Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Passable Prow
Normal Anchor
Standard Hull
Eddo's Cannon
Simple Handrail
Steady Bridge
Normal Chimney
Normal Wheel

------------------------
Bright Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Bell Prow
Bell Anchor
Bright Hull
Artistic Cannon
Arch Handrail
Restful Cabin
Elegant Chimney
Paddling Wheel

------------------------
Iron Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Drill Prow
Iron Anchor
Iron Hull
Iron Hull
Strong Cannon
Conning Tower
Parasol Chimney
Battle Wheel

------------------------
Stone Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Mermaid Prow
Ancient Anchor
Stone Hull
Ancient Cannon
Pillar Handrail
Peaceful Bridge
Stone Chimney
Rock Wheel

------------------------
Vintage Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Log Prow
Swim Ring
Vintage Hull
Meager Cannon
Worn Handrail
Barrel Shack
Strange Chimney
Simple Wheel

------------------------
Demon Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Demon Prow
Sickle Anchor
Demon Ship
Fear Cannon
Spike Handrail
Demon Bridge
Demon Chimney
Insect Wheel

------------------------
Tropical Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Tropical Prow
Shell Anchor
Tropical Ship
Seapony Cannon
Wood Handrail
Shell Apartment
Horn Chimney
Shell Wheel

------------------------
Dignified Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Tourist Prow
Weighty Anchor
Dignified Ship
Red Cannon
Utility Handrail
Practical Bridge
Tall Chimney
Red Wheel

------------------------
Golden Set:
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Golden Prow
Gem Anchor
Golden Hull
Golden Cannon
Golden Handrail
Golden Bridge
Golden Chimney
Golden Wheel
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                 Inventory                                 |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
As usual, I will list the items you get in the game. They're quite varied. 
Uh... not much to say, really.

\_____________________________________
Normal Items       /                  \
-------------------
This details all the equippable items you can acquire.

------------------------
Boomerang
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A curved, ordained stick that always seems to return to you. Can
 hit distant switches and stun enemies. To use it, either tap the object or
 enemy with the Boomerang out, or draw a line through multiple objects.
Gotten: From the Temple of Fire.

------------------------
Bombs
¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Crude but effective explosives. Tap the equipped item button to
 take one out, and place it beside you by tapping near Link, or throw it by
 tapping far from Link. The good thing about these bombs is that their fuses 
 don't go off until you throw it, so take as much time as you need to adjust 
 your aim.
Gotten: From the Temple of Wind.

------------------------
Bow
¯¯¯
Description: A device designed to launch pointy projectiles. To shoot, just tap
 in any direction from Link. You can keep an arrow nocked by holding the stylus
 onto the touch screen until you let go.
Gotten: From the Temple of Courage.

------------------------
Bombchus
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Mobile bombs shaped like mice. First introduced in Ocarina of 
 Time, these actually follow a path that you trace on the map once you take one
 out. They are of limited range, so take note of that.
Gotten: From the Goron Temple.

------------------------
Grappling Hook
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A rope with a hook attached to it. Using this, you can pull small
 things toward you and pull you towards large things. It can also be connected
 between two poles to be used as a tightrope or slingshot.
Gotten: From the Temple of Ice.

------------------------
Hammer
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The most overpowered weapon in the game, surprisingly. When 
 equipped, Ciela carries the Hammer. Tap any place in the screen to hammer 
 there in Link's vicinity. Hold a direction long enough and the Hammer will 
 grow. When released, the impact will be stronger and have a wider shock 
 radius.
Gotten: From Mutoh's Temple.

------------------------
Shovel
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A simple shovel. Used to dig up patches of dirt or fill in small
 holes.
Gotten: In Molida Island, in the large cave. It's in a room behind a cracked
 bombable wall.

\_____________________________________
Collection         /                  \
-------------------
This is basically your Quest Status screen that details the key items you 
collected. Almost every Zelda game seems to have one. The items here will be
ordered left to right, first on the top screen, then the bottom screen. Also,
this will show the items for the boat (aside from ship parts) that you get that
are otherwise not shown.

------------------------
Phantom Hourglass
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The sacred item that protects you from life-draining curses for as
 long as the sand that sits inside. The Sand of Hours increases as each boss is
 defeated and certain Treasure Map treasures are salvaged at sea, to a total of
 25 minutes.
Gotten: After defeating Blaaz at the Temple of Fire, return to the Temple of 
 the Ocean King and you will be prompted to take this.

------------------------
Oshus's Sword
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Oshus's prized sword that you stole....what? It was necessary! 
 Anyway, this will be your main weapon for most of the game.
Gotten: Beginning of the game, attempt to take the north road after meeting 
 Oshus and the earthquake happened, then go back to Oshus. Talk to him, exit,
 and enter the cave nearby. Put in the proper code ("7") on the sign to open 
 the door, and grab the sword.

------------------------
Phantom Sword
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The sacred sword that can slay Bellum and its minions, the 
 Phantoms.
Gotten: Gather the three pure metals, have Zauz form them into the blade, then
 return to Oshus to truly wield this powerful sword.

------------------------
Wooden Shield
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A basic shield that protects you from minor attacks...and it's
 really the only shield in the game. It's not necessary, but it does make 
 things slightly easier.
Gotten: Can be bought at a store, as early as the port town of Mercay Island.

------------------------
Crimsonine
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: One of three pure metals needed to forge the Phantom Sword. This 
 red metal was guarded by Dongorongo, guardian of the Goron Temple.
Gotten: Clear the Goron Temple.

------------------------
Azurine
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: One of three pure metals needed to forge the Phantom Sword. This
 blue metal was guarded by Gleeok, guardian of the Temple of Ice.
Gotten: Clear the Temple of Ice.

------------------------
Aquanine
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: One of three pure metals needed to forge the Phantom Sword. This
 green metal was guarded by King Mutoh, at his own temple.
Gotten: Clear Mutoh's Temple.

------------------------
Sword Blade
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The Phantom Sword's blade forged by Zauz after giving him the 
 three pure metals. It needs a hilt before it can be fully complete.
Gotten: Get the three pure metals, give them to Zauz, do one last battle with
 Jolene the pirate, then head back to Zauz to get this.

------------------------
Temple of the Ocean King Record
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: At the place of all the quest items for getting the Phantom Sword,
 this tells you the current record you pulled during your last raid through the
 Temple of the Ocean King. It's possible, but extremely hard to pull off zero
 seconds on it!
Gotten: Acquire the Phantom Sword through the above quest items.

------------------------

**NOTE: The items below are capacity upgrades.**

------------------------
Bomb Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A basic bomb bag that came with the Bombs you found at the Temple
 of Wind. This bag lets you carry a total of 10.
Gotten: ...At the Temple of Wind along with the Bombs.

------------------------
Big Bomb Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A larger bomb bag that allows you to carry 20 Bombs.
Gotten: On Bannan Island, traverse the cave so that you end up on the east 
 side. Talk to Salvatore and play the Cannon Game. Beat the record of 2500 
 points to get this, no matter which treasure chest you pick.

------------------------
Biggest Bomb Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The largest bomb bag available. It allows you to carry 30 Bombs.
Gotten: From Beedle at any one of his shops for 1000 Rupees. The purchase also
 gives you 10 points to your Customer Card.

------------------------
Quiver
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A basic quiver that came with the Bow you found at the Temple of
 Courage. This quiver lets you carry a total of 20 Arrows.
Gotten: At the Temple of Courage along with the Bow.

------------------------
Big Quiver
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A larger quiver that allows you to carry 30 Arrows.
Gotten: On Molida Island. After clearing the Temple of Courage, Romanos may 
 have an archery game open. Exceed 1700 points to get this prize.

------------------------
Biggest Quiver
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The largest quiver available. It allows you to carry 50 Arrows.
Gotten: On any island shop. It's sold for 1000 Rupees once you have the Bow.

------------------------
Bombchu Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A basic bomb for Bombchus. It lets you carry 10 Bombchus.
Gotten: With the Bombchus found at Goron Temple.

------------------------
Big Bombchu Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A larger bag for Bombchus. Allows you to carry 20 Bombchus.
Gotten: On Dee Ess Island after clearing the Temple of Ice. Clear the Goron
 Game with a record of under 35 seconds to get this.

------------------------
Biggest Bombchu Bag
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The largest Bombchu Bag available. It lets you carry 30 Bombchus.
Gotten: On any island shop. After purchasing the Quiver upgrade from the shop,
 this is available for 1000 Rupees once you have the Bombchus.

------------------------

**End of capacity upgrades**

------------------------
Spirit Chart
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: This shows which of the three Spirits you have obtained. Having 
 all three (Power, Wisdom, Courage) is a sign of true strength, and also of
 plot development.
Gotten: Each spirit is gotten within the first three temples of the game.

------------------------
Spirit Gem Chart
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Right beside the above chart is this one, which shows you how many
 of each Spirit Gem you have collected. There are 20 each, and 10 of them 
 upgrades one of the above fairies when taken to a special island.
Gotten: The Spirit Gems are gotten in various places. Just see the Spirit Gem
 section.

------------------------
Sun Key
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A key with its head in the shape of a sun. It can be used to open
 the way to the Temple of Courage on Molida Island!
Gotten: Once you have the Salvage Arm, an emblem should be on the map that you
 got from the Temple of the Ocean King. Head there and use the Salvage Arm to
 get this Key.

------------------------
Ghost Key
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A key that lets you reach further places in the Ghost Ship to find
 Tetra.
Gotten: As a reward for beating the Cubus Sisters on the Ghost Ship.

------------------------
King's Key
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A key that revives the ancient Cobble Kingdom. It's necessary to
 find the Aquanine!
Gotten: Get from the third knight, Doylan, for surviving his temple's traps and
 obstacles on the Isle of Ruins.

------------------------
Regal Necklace
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A treasure from the Cobble Kingdom. It lets you access the Isle of
 Ruins in an attempt to find King Mutoh.
Gotten: For solving the massive puzzle on the Isle of the Dead.

------------------------

**NOTE: The items below are the items for the major trading quest in the 
game.**

------------------------
Hero's New Clothes
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Special clothes a hero once worn...they feel rather light though.
Gotten: Board the Traveler's Ship in Northeastern Sea and kill the enemies 
 inside, then ask for the mysterious thing from The Man of Smiles after talking 
 to him enough times.

------------------------
Telescope
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A telescope used to see far-off things. Wait...oh, it's a 
 kaliedoscope!
Gotten: Give Nyeve (the Traveler's Ship in Northwestern Sea) the Hero's New
 Clothes.

------------------------
Guard Notebook
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A leather book that someone lost. Whoever it belongs to must 
 really miss it!
Gotten: Give the Ho-Ho that doesn't have a telescope (the Traveler's Ship in
 Southeastern Sea) the Telescope from above to get this.

------------------------
Wood Heart
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: No, it's not really a piece of wood shaped like a heart...it's
 actually a very fine eatable! Yum!
Gotten: Give Nyave (the Traveler's Ship in Southwestern Sea) the Guard Notebook
 to get this.

------------------------
Swordsman's Scroll
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A scroll that teaches you the ways of performing the Great Spin
 Attack. Spin attack three times in succession to perform it. Don't forget that
 you can move around during it!
Gotten: Give the Old Wayfarer (one of the Traveler's Ships in Southeastern Sea)
 the Wood Heart, then head back to his house in Bannan Island to get this from
 a large chest. Your reward for completing the trading quest!

------------------------

**End of trading quest items**

------------------------
Freebie Card
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A coupon from Beedle. Once you have it in possession, you can use
 it to buy an item for free! Make good use of it and get something expensive,
 like a Golden Ship Part! Cannot be used in Masked Beedle stores.
Gotten: Get 20 shop points at Beedle shops to acquire Silver Membership. You
 will get this in the mail shortly afterwards. I believe you also get 10% off
 all purchases with this membership.

------------------------
Complimentary Card
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A card from Beedle. Once you have it in possession, you get to use 
 it at a Beedle shop. Once used, Beedle compliments you...that's it. Pretty
 useless.
Gotten: Get 50 shop points at Beedle shops to acquire Gold Membership, where 
 you can get 20% off all purchases! You will get this in the mail shortly 
 afterwards.

------------------------
Compliment Card
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A card from Beedle. Once you have it in possession, you may use it
 at a Beedle Shop. Once used, you have to compliment Beedle by saying something
 into the DS mic. You get nothing, so it's another useless item.
Gotten: Get 100 shop points at Beedle shops to acquire Platinum Membership, 
 where you can get 30% off all purchases! You will get this in the mail shortly
 afterwards.

------------------------
Prize Postcard
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A special postcard that, when put in a mailbox, the sender will
 recieve special prizes over the mail at times, such as Treasure and Ship 
 Parts. (Hint: You're supposed to lose in order to get the prizes. Winning gets
 you nothing, ironically.)
Gotten: After getting the Hero's New Clothes from the Man of Smiles on the
 Traveler's Ship of Northeastern Sea, board the ship again later on and clear
 off the enemies. Talk to him 'til you get this.

------------------------
Jolene's Letter
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A letter by Jolene written for her sister, Joanne. You got this
 letter by accident, so you'll have to hand-deliver it to Joanne on Bannan 
 Island.
Gotten: After encountering Jolene the first time, you get this in the mail.

------------------------
Treasure Maps
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Just tells you how many Treasure Maps you've gotten. Unlike Wind
 Waker, these aren't numbered officially. There are 31 in all, can you find
 them all and salvage the treasures they locate?
Gotten: The Maps are gotten in various places. Just see the Treasure Maps 
 section.

------------------------
Cyclone Slate
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: With this, just draw a symbol on it and you will warp to whatever
 place in the Great Sea that the symbol corresponds to. To learn these symbols,
 shoot down Golden Frogs that you may come across using the ship's cannon, and
 they will show you the symbols. Draw them on the Sea Chart so you don't forget
 them! There are six Golden Frogs in all. *NOTE: You can't learn the symbols
 until you get the Cyclone Slate.*
Gotten: On the Northwest Sea's Uncharted Island, solve the puzzle of which 
 order of the Gossip Stones that you need to hit, and the cave at the middle of
 the island will be opened. Head inside and you will eventually meet the Golden
 Chief, Cylos. He'll give you this.

------------------------
Salvage Arm
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: This allows you to salvage deep-sea treasure, usually with the
 Treasure Maps that you find throughout the game. Once you get above some 
 treasure, press the Salvage icon in the Menu screen and you will play a little
 mini-game where you control the Salvage Arm. Linebeck tells you the controls 
 The Salvage Arm has health, and can only be repaired at Mercay's shipyard. The 
 more damage it has, the more you have to pay to fix it. If it's completely 
 destroyed, I believe you have to buy a new one from Eddo at Cannon Island, so 
 that's a no-no.
Gotten: Once the Temple of Wind is cleared, head through the Temple of the 
 Ocean King to have something on the sea chart mark something important buried
 under the sea. Head to Cannon Island and buy this from Eddo at a price that
 varies depending on how loud you are. (If you're good at whistling, just use
 that.)

------------------------
Fishing Rod
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: This overseas-only item allows you to fish on the sea where 
 shadows of fish are. Just sail onto the shadows and pick "Fish" from the menu!
 For fishing controls, check the Walkthrough under section "Courageous 
 Salvaging". (It's marked by asterisks. [*])
Gotten: Presumably when you've gotten the Cyclone Slate and Salvage Arm, head 
 to Bannan Island and talk to the Wayfarer to learn of a mermaid. Clear all the
 enemies from the island and the mermaid may appear. Hit her with the Boomerang
 then talk to the Wayfarer, then Linebeck, then the Wayfarer again. He'll give
 you this. When you catch a Loovar and come back to him, he'll give you a Big
 Catch Lure with the Rod so that you can catch bigger fish.

------------------------
Fishing Journal
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A journal on the Collection screen (left arrow when brought up)
 that becomes available when you get the Fishing Rod. This shows the types of
 fish you caught, how many of each type you caught, and the heaviest of that
 type that you caught. It also tells you how many fish in total that you 
 caught. The different fish types are...Skippyjack, Toona, Loovar, Rusty 
 Swordfish, and Neptoona.
Gotten: When you get the Fishing Rod.

\_____________________________________
Treasure           /                  \
-------------------
Known as "Spoils" in Wind Waker, Treasure returns as simple items that can be
sold for more money (Rupees). Their sale price differs with each new game file
created.

------------------------
Pink Coral
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Coral, polished to a shine. It's an object to be admired!

------------------------
Pearl Necklace
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Pure white pearls, strung together into a stunning necklace.

------------------------
Dark Pearl Loop
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Rare dark pearls, strung into a jaw-dropping necklace.

------------------------
Zora Scale
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: It's said that a Zora dropped this rare and sparkling scale!

------------------------
Goron Amber
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: This tasty Goron treat is valuable because it contains a bug!

------------------------
Ruto Crown
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Some say this regal crown was worn by a princess of Zora.

------------------------
Helmaroc Plume
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: This flamboyant feather was droppe by a Helmaroc bird.

------------------------
Regal Ring
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A princely ring handed down among royal generations.

\_____________________________________
Common Pick-ups    /                  \
-------------------
These are minor items that drop from slashed grass, destroyed boulders and 
barrels, and defeated enemies.

------------------------
Rupees
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The game's currency. The color of the Rupee determines how 
 valuable it is. Since there are no wallet upgrades in the game, the maximum 
 Rupees you can carry is 9999.
Green = 1
Blue = 5
Red = 20
Big Green = 100
Big Red = 200
Big Gold = 300

------------------------
Rupoor
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: These items look like gray Rupees, but don't collect them! As the
 name suggests, these things make you poor by collecting them, so you lose the
 amount of Rupees it shows. Small ones make you lose 10, while large ones make
 you lose 50. Ouch.

------------------------
Recovery Heart
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: One heart recovers...well...one heart of your health back. These 
 seem quite common within pots.

------------------------
Ship Recovery Heart
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Enemies of the Great Sea usually drop this. You can't technically
 pick them up like other goodies dropped whilst on the sea, but these are 
 different. They are colored green and restore a heart of the ship's damage 
 meter.

------------------------
Bombs
¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A simple pick-up to refill bombs. They usually come in packs of
 three.

------------------------
Arrows
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A simple pick-up to refill arrows. They usually come in packs of
 five.

------------------------
Bombchus
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A simple pick-up to refill Bombchus. They usually come in packs of
 three.

\_____________________________________
Dungeon Items      /                  \
-------------------
Items only found in dungeons or caves. In a weird turn of events, this game
seems to be the only Zelda that does not feature the Dungeon Map item and the
Compass item! As such, this usually-short-section will be even shorter.

------------------------
Small Key
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: One Small Key allows you to unlock a single locked door. For the 
 most part, they are abundant in the dungeons/temples, but they can also appear 
 in random caves.

------------------------
Force Gem
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A golden triangle. Yeah...it's not the Triforce. Found only in a
 couple of floors in the Temple of the Ocean King, you have to take three Force
 Gems to a Triforce-shaped pedestal in order to continue.

------------------------
Shape Crystals
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: Certain dungeons have you putting crystals of certain shapes onto
 pedestals of the same shape in order to continue. There are three shapes; 
 square, triangle, circle.

------------------------
Boss Key
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The big key that leads to the boss! Once you grab it, you'll have 
 to physically carry it around instead of it being in hammerspace or something, 
 meaning some added challenge to reach the boss.

\_____________________________________
Bottled Items      /                  \
-------------------
Empty Bottles aren't in this game, but there are items that come pre-packaged 
in bottles that have one use in this game. They're really just potions, but 
what the heck, why not include them.

------------------------
Red Potion
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A healthy potion that, when drank, restores six hearts! Most 
 stores sell this potion for a mere 80 Rupees.

------------------------
Purple Potion
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: A revival medicine. It fills eight hearts when used, but if you
 have one of these and you lose all your health, you will be revived and 
 restore eight hearts. Pretty much the Bottled Fairy of most other Zelda games.

------------------------
Yellow Potion
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Description: The rarest and most expensive of all potions, this one restores 
 all hearts when drank. A free Yellow Potion can be found on the Ghost Ship...
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                  Enemies                                  |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a list of enemies in the game. Sometimes you have to wonder how they
came up with the names of the enemies... These are listed in alphabetical 
order.

------------------------
Armos Statue
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A statue that comes alive when Link approaches. They hop towards Link to 
attempt to poke him with the spikes at their base. The only way to "kill" them
is to blast them with Bombs. Afterwards, they can be pushed around and used as
things to weigh switches and other things down.

------------------------
Battleship
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
An enemy pirate ship armed with a cannon. They usually come in groups, one 
being the main ship controlled by Miniblins, the other smaller ships being back
up for the main. Be cautious, if the main ship is successful in sailing right
beside your ship, the Miniblins will board, and you'll have to take them down.
An added note about the main Battleship though. If it's downed, it always drops
treasure to be salvaged. As such, these main Battleships don't really appear
until you have the Salvage Arm.

------------------------
Beamos
¯¯¯¯¯¯
A statue with a green eye. The eye surveys the room by circling its statue. If
it spots Link, it will shoot a stready laser stream at him. The Beamos statue
itself is indestructible, but the eye can be shot with an arrow to incapacitate
it.

------------------------
Bee
¯¯¯
A harmful flying insect that can sting without warning. They are mainly found
around hives, and usually on Cannon Island. For the most part, if you don't get
near their hives or walk right in their flight path, they will leave you alone.
If they do swarm you though, a spin attack can kill them.

------------------------
Bellyfish
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A purple jellyfish that shoots out of the sea when in your boat, then slowly
sinks back down to the sea without attacking. When it's hit with a cannon bomb,
a sound resembling a small bell (hence the name I chose for it, since it's 
unnamed) emits from it, and you gain a Rupee. Hit it enough times and it will
eventually split into two. Hit them some more and one will split again. Up to
three Bellyfish can float around at a time. This is a great way to gain Rupees
at sea.

------------------------
Bubble
¯¯¯¯¯¯
Bubbles are floating, flaming, animated skulls. There are two types of Bubbles
in this game: Red and Ice. The Red Bubble simply damages you and can only be
defeated by stunning them first before striking, or with an arrow. Blue Bubbles
can freeze you for a few seconds, but they can simply be struck with the sword
to be defeated.

------------------------
ChuChu
¯¯¯¯¯¯
A jelly-like blob of an enemy. They appear just like they do in Wind Waker, and
come in four different colors! Red ChuChus are very easy and simple, they can
be downed with one strike. Yellow ChuChus have electric properties and surround
themselves in electricity every so often. Just strike when they're vulnerable.
Green ChuChus revert to a simple puddle when Link approaches, making it 
difficult to kill them. Just treat them like Yellow Chuchus. Blue ChuChus 
always surround themselves in electricity and are the most durable of ChuChus.
You'll have to kill these from a distance with arrows or something. Some Red
ChuChus hide under rocks to protect themselves. These Rock ChuChus need to be
hit with a bomb first to break their protective headgear, then slashed to kill.

------------------------
Eye Brute
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
These Hinox-like monsters (maybe they are Hinox?) throw punches and bombs. They
have a single eye which is their weak point. Fire an arrow at their eye to stun
them, then slash them. They have a lot of stamina, so it may take a couple of
attempts without the help of an upgraded Spirit of Power...

------------------------
Eye Plant
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Again, don't know if this is the proper name (I don't think an official enemy
bestiary has been released for Phantom Hourglass yet.) but this enemy is 
basically a giant head with an eye that appears from the sea when on the ship.
Two shots from the cannon kills them. These enemies are annoying because they
usually appear right in the ship's path, and must be killed immediately while
moving, since just stopping gives them a stationary target to fire their 
projectiles at you.

------------------------
Eye Snake
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
One-eyed enemies that slither around. Not much to say about these, they just 
seem to be larger versions of the Rope enemy, with similar movements and a 
longer reach.

------------------------
Flying Fish
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Not sure of the proper name for this, but it's an orange-ish enemy that pops 
out of the Great Sea at times. It flies around your ship before finally ramming
into it. Like other Great Sea enemies, these don't appear until you have the
cannon, which is great, since the cannon is your only form of defense on sea.

------------------------
Gyorg
¯¯¯¯¯
An enemy shark with a hard head. These sharks swim ahead of you when boating,
and when you stop, they circle you. After a while, they attempt to strike you
by ramming into you. Stop them by shooting them as they jump out of the water.
Multiple Gyorgs can surround you, so be careful.

------------------------
Hardhat Beetle
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A beetle with a seemingly unbreakable carapace. It's usually found on high
ledges, seeking solely to knock you off. If you strike it, it gets pushed back.
The best thing to do is to just ignore it...at least until you have the 
Hammer...

------------------------
Jolene
¯¯¯¯¯¯
A hardened Gerudo (maybe?) pirate. She sails around the Great Sea, and seems to
make her debut sometime after the Temple of Courage. When you see her ship, she
will attempt to chase after you while firing torpedos. Just do well-timed jumps
to avoid the torpedos. Since her ship is a bit faster than yours, you'll have 
to sail to another sector of the Great Sea to shake her off. If you don't, she
may eventually board your ship. If that happens, to fight her off, just either
avoid her or slash your sword at her. The latter seems to be more efficient, as
though she'll block, she'll do her charge strike quicker. Move out of the way
when she prepares the charge strike, and strike her back quickly. Eventually,
after she takes enough damage, one of the times you strike with your sword, 
both your swords will clash. Rub the stylus on the touch screen rapidly to 
break her grip and win the battle.

------------------------
Keese
¯¯¯¯¯
The simple bat enemy. They fly around in a somewhat erratic pattern, and can
fly right into most of the time. Well-timed sword slashes can take them down.
In certain places of the game though, there are Fire Keese. They can't be 
killed with the sword, so you must use a projectile such as an arrow or the 
Boomerang. Finally, there are Ice Keese. They freeze Link upon contact, and 
must be escaped by rubbing the stylus on the screen. They can be killed with a
simple sword slash.

------------------------
Like Like
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Quite the common enemy, they appear in lots of Zelda games. They are gelatinous
tube-like blobs with their mouth opening always facing straight upwards. They
move around in a revolting manner and they always pulsate disgustingly. Like
Likes love shields, so if Link gets near, they will lean forward and attempt to
suck Link in. Rub the stylus on the touch screen to escape, and if they end up
taking your shield, you'll have to buy a new one at a store, if you were too
slow at killing them before they digest it. An easy way to beat them is to
throw a Bomb into their mouths when they try to suck you in. How'd these 
creatures get this name? From the old Hylian proverb: "Shield-eaters and world 
leaders have many likes alike."

A special breed of Like Like exist in this game. They are Rupee Likes. They
disguise themselves as Rupees on the ground, and when you try to pick it up,
they pop out of the ground and attempt to eat away your Rupees. Rub them off.
How many Rupees are taken is determined by what color the fake Rupee is that is
attached to it.

------------------------
Miniblin
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Small imp-like creatures that can be downed with one or two slashes. They use
their pitchforks as stabbing weapons, and retreat from Link if they're alone
and being attacked, waiting for other Miniblins to come help. Some Miniblins
chose to be pirates, and man enemy Battleships. You'd better be careful, else
they'll board your ship!

------------------------
Mini Cyclone
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Though not technically an enemy, it acts like one. This only damages the ship
if you run into it, but can be dispatched with two shots of the cannon. They
even drop goodies like Rupees or ship hearts when "defeated."

------------------------
Moldorm
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A centipede-like creature that slithers around, ready to bite you. Its weak 
point is the end of its tail, which is oddly enough red-colored. Not much to 
say about this enemy, though they seem to be dungeon-specific. You first 
encounter them at the Temple of Courage. They're easiest with arrows though.

------------------------
Octorok
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Octoroks return to their land-based function as in The Legend of Zelda for the
NES, crawling along the ground and occasionally stopping to fire rocks. The
more recent Octoroks do make an appearance however on the Great Sea. These 
Ocean Octoroks sometimes pop out of the water and attempt to fire bombs at your
ship. Finally, while salvaging treasure at sea, mechanical explosive mines 
shaped like an Octorok can get in the way. Avoid these Octomines as much as 
possible.

------------------------
Patra
¯¯¯¯¯
Not the official name, but these eyeball monsters sure do look like Patras. 
They dwell in the air above the seas, and when you're sailing, a group of them
may appear. They slowly fly down, and you can hear them through their 
distinctive flapping noise. The last one of the group is a red Patra, and 
always drops a Rupee prize when downed.

------------------------
Phantom
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
An enemy guard that is found only within the Temple of the Ocean King. For the
most part, these are the temple's only enemies, aside from the Phantom Eyes and
Wizzrobes. Phantoms cannot be killed unless you have the Phantom Sword, so 
stealth is required to get past them. They can be stunned with arrows however.
There are three different kinds of Phantoms. There's the normal blue ones; 
there's the red Swift Phantoms, which are frighteningly faster than Link; and
the yellow Warp Phantoms, which, while they move slowly, warp to Link's 
location if he's been spotted in the room. Getting hit by a Phantom costs you
a whole 30 seconds on your Phantom Hourglass, and I imagine you likely get 
killed instantly if you have no minutes on your Hourglass. (Haven't tried it)

------------------------
Phantom Eye
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A floating eyeball monster that patrols certain floors of the Temple of the 
Ocean King. They can spot you from all angles, but they can be defeated through
normal means, unlike Phantoms. To do so, stun them with a hit from the 
Boomerang, then quickly slash it once to kill it. These Phantom Eyes can be
trouble though, as if you're spotted, the Phantoms on the floor will pinpoint
your location. Get to a safe zone quickly if this happens. If you're too slow
in finding one, the Phantom Eye will try to hold you down. Quickly rub it off
with the stylus and get to a safe zone.

------------------------
Poe
¯¯¯
Poes are ghosts that...primarily dwell on the Ghost Ship. I don't see them
anywhere else. These ghosts have long tails and look drastically different from
traditional Poes. They will constantly turn invisible, and thus invincible, if
Link is near. To kill them easily, hit them with the Boomerang or with an 
arrow.

------------------------
Pols Voice
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A yellow blob with eyes, whiskers, and bunny ears. They are fairly large 
compared to Link, and attack by jumping up and swallowing him whole using the
mouth on their underbellies. For the most part, they are invulnerable. However,
produce a loud noise (yelling, whistling at the DS, snapping your fingers) and
the Pols Voice will cower. From there, a simple sword strike will defeat it.

------------------------
Rat
¯¯¯
Rats are fairly annoying enemies. They are small and purple-ish and skitter
around in weird patterns. They never seem to move in diagonal directions 
though. Some Rats contain small keys, and must be outsmarted in order to steal
their key and continue.

------------------------
Reapling
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A giant enemy patrol that looks a little like the traditional Grim Reaper. 
Scythe and everything! These are basically the Phantoms of the Ghost Ship, 
except they can go through walls. Unlike Phantoms though, if they're hit with
anything at their backs, they get stunned temporarily. Above all else though,
don't let the Cubus Sisters let them know of your presence!

------------------------
River Zora
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A Zora Warrior enemy. This is a large humanoid fish that can breathe fire, and
also attacks with a sword. It also has a shield to protect it from frontal 
attacks. The easiest way to defeat this enemy is to use the Boomerang to strike
its back and stun it, then go to its back and slash until it's dead. They 
aren't very common enemies, and usually guard something important.

------------------------
Rope
¯¯¯¯
Basically a purple snake. It crawls around in four strict directions, and bites 
Link if he's too close. They usually come in groups. Not much I can say about
these things, but they are usually in dungeons.

------------------------
Sandworm
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A large worm that lives in the sands of Isle of Gust and within the Temple of
Wind. They come up to where they hear sound, and launch up to eat Link. If Link
gets caught, rub the stylus on the enemy to get off of them. They also come up
if they hear a bomb, so throw a bomb on the sand and they will come up and
swallow it, later getting blown up from the inside. When you come to the sands
of a Sandworm, tread lightly to avoid becoming a snack.

------------------------
Sea Trap
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A crude but effective spike trap held up by wooden buoys. You can shoot cannon
bombs at the wooden buoys to sink the trap, but it's easier to just jump it.
These can be found around the Great Sea.

------------------------
Shell Spinners
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A turtle enemy with green shells. They crawl around and spin their shells at
you whenever they spot you. Sound similar to a certain Mario enemy? I bet. At
any rate, these turtle enemies cannot be defeated unless they're flipped over
by the Hammer. So once you have the weapon, strike the ground near them to flip
them over, and slash away. Or simply hit them with the Hammer again.

------------------------
Skulltula
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Yep, the Skulltulas from OoT are back, but they are primarily found on the 
Ghost Ship. They quickly dangle down to floor level with their webs when Link
is near, then climb back up their webs. An arrow can easily take care of them.
These enemies are quite the nuisance when escorting the Cubus Sisters, as the
sisters just hate spiders.

------------------------
Slime
¯¯¯¯¯
Returning from A Link to the Past, these jelly-like creatures resemble Zols and
Gels from the older 2D Zeldas. Like a Zol, there are large Slimes that hop 
towards Link as a form of attack, and split into two smaller Slimes when hit.
Like a Gel from Link's Awakening, the small Slimes will attempt to latch onto
Link to impede his movement. Simply rub them off with the stylus to get them 
off.

------------------------
Stag Beetle
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This enemy is basically a beetle with a weird mask on its face. This bull-like
mask is indestructible, and they can't be killed from the front, only the back.
However, once you have the Grappling Hook, you can use it to easily snatch the
mask away and make them vulnerable.

------------------------
Stalfos
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
An animated skeleton. Sometimes they have swords, sometimes they don't. The
unarmed Stalfos throw bones at you, and jump away when you try to kill them.
Simply corner them and slash until they die, or snipe them with Arrows. They
seem to mainly reside on the islands of the Northeastern Sea.

------------------------
Takkuri
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A bird. A very greedy bird. It perches on fenceposts and the tops of trees, and
flies toward Link when he's in range. If it hits Link, Link spills his dough.
His money. His Rupees. Don't let that blasted bird do that, as it'll snatch 
those dropped Rupees right from ya!

------------------------
Tektite
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
A four-legged, one-eyed arachnid. They jump around and only seem to thrive on
volcanos. Blue Tektites are small, don't jump very far, and go down very 
quickly. Red Tektites are the stronger variety, being larger, jumping farther
and more frequently, and take more hits to kill.

------------------------
Winder
¯¯¯¯¯¯
A series of electrically-charged...balls. They travel along walls and cannot be
defeated. They seem to primarily be found in dungeons. Your best bet is to just
avoid them as best as you can.

------------------------
Wizzrobe
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
An enemy that haunts you and follows you around. These are quite different from
traditional Wizzrobes, and are only found within the Temple of the Ocean King.
They appear invisible at first, but will appear and slash you with their 
scythes, cutting off some time from your Phantom Hourglass. They can be killed
however. Just slash them or hit them with the Boomerang when they're visible.
The only way to track them down efficiently is to look at the map on the top
screen. They appear as skulls.

------------------------
Yook
¯¯¯¯
Creatures that live on the Isle of Gust and the Temple of Ice. These monsters
wield wooden clubs, are covered with hair, and also attack by inhaling lots of
air, then blowing icy cold wind at you. How to kill them? Simple. Throw a Bomb
into their mouths when they are inhaling to stun them, then slash away. See? It
is so easy, a caveman could do it.

...What?
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                  Bosses                                   |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
A list of bosses in the game! Listed in order, of course. So...yeah. This 
includes the otherwise un-named bosses that you encounter in the Great Sea.

------------------------
BOSS OF TEMPLE OF FIRE: Blaaz, Master of Fire
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss seems threatening, but is not really that much of an issue. He will
first appear in his normal form, then split into three smaller versions of 
himself. Your objective is to throw the Boomerang at each of them with one 
throw to combine him back to normal. However, there has to be a specific order
in which to target them. How? Look at the top screen. See the horns on the 
three guys? The single-horned one has to be targeted first with the Boomerang,
then the two-horned, then the three-horned. Simple. Be quick with this though,
as they will surround Link and attempt to throw fireballs at him. Once Blaaz is
combined into normal, let him have it with furious sword strikes. Once he's
damaged enough, he'll make flaming boulders drop on the arena. Just be cautious
and keep slashing him. At one point, he'll start warping around frantically. 
You can get hits on him if you Boomerang him to stun him.

After a bit, he may split up again. Just do the same thing on him as before to
bring him back to normal, and slash him until he's dead.

------------------------
BOSS OF TEMPLE OF WIND: Cyclok, Stirrer of Winds
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss looks very much like an Octorok that rides a cyclone of wind. In 
fact, its design may be based off of the statue that guards Gale Isle in Wind
Waker. At any rate, Cyclok has a total of two attacks. He will either dive bomb
down at you (walk away to avoid), or send small cyclones down to damage you. 
The way to damage Cyclok is to watch the floor. The shadow tells you where 
Cyclok is. Now, there are three points on the ground where a small cyclone 
stirs up. Go to that cyclone, and wait for Cyclok to get above that. Throw a
bomb into the cyclone and it should fly up and hit Cyclok, knocking him down.
Get to him and slash him until he gets up again.

Note that when sending bombs to Cyclok, the bomb itself doesn't have to hit 
him, as long as he's in range of the bomb's blast, he'll still get knocked 
down. It usually takes about four or five attempts of the same strategy before
he finally dies.

------------------------
BOSS OF GREAT SEA: Giant Eye Plant
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss is basically an oversized version of the Eye Plant enemies. You 
encounter it twice, once when getting to Molida Island for the Temple of 
Courage, and the other at Bannan Island when trying to get the Swordsman's 
Scroll. The strategy is the same for both fights. Make a long back-and-forth 
path on one side of the creature to keep moving, and constantly shoot at the 
spike balls it fires to break them. Its weak point is the eye, so shoot it when 
it opens up. Eventually it will die.

------------------------
BOSS OF TEMPLE OF COURAGE: Crayk, Bane of Courage
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Now this is a bit of a unique boss. This giant enemy crab is invisible, so 
you'll have to do a little bit before you attack its weakpoint for massive 
damage. Crayk's viewpoint is on the top screen, so wherever it's facing, 
you'll see. If Link is getting larger on that top screen, that means you need 
to get out of wherever you're standing, or it'll grab you and squeeze the life
out of you. If that happens, rub the stylus on the touch screen to shake off.
Your objective is to shoot an arrow at Crayk when it's charging at you. This
will turn it visible. Start slashing the purple spots below its shell. If all
are popped, Crayk's shell will break open.

Begin phase two. Crayk's weakpoint is now exposed! To gain easy access to it,
shoot Crayk in the eye with an arrow to stun it, then go behind Crayk and slash
the weakpoint, which is the tail. If you run out of arrows, the little crabs
that crawl around almost always drop arrows for you if defeated. Eventually,
Crayk will crumble.

------------------------
BOSS OF GHOST SHIP: The Diabolical Cubus Sisters
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss is actually fairly simple, but requires vigilance. Three of the Cubus
will fire constant laser streams in front of them, limiting your movement. The
fourth Cubus will fire one of two projectiles. If it's a solid energy 
projectile, slash it. If it's a special projectile with four energy balls in 
it, you can't slash it, so avoid it. When that projectile hits the wall behind
you, it will split into four smaller projectiles northward, in an attempt to
hit you.

Anyway, once the regular energy projectile is slashed, it reflects back to the
Cubus who fired it. She will then either volley it over to one of her sisters
or back at you. Keep doing this until the projectile finally hits either you
or one of them. It takes two of these energy projectiles to kill each Cubus
Sister. Once three of them are defeated, the last one will fire three kinds of
energy projectiles, one of them being the solid one. Just play a little ping
pong until she finally gets hit. Kill her to win! Of course. But where's Tetra?

------------------------
BOSS 2 OF GREAT SEA: SkyWhale
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss "guards" the way to Goron Island. During the fight, you have no 
control of your ship whatsoever, not even a jump feature, so any ram attacks 
the boss may do is near impossible to avoid. (If you shoot it while it's 
trying to ram you, it may retreat, but it's kinda hard to accomplish.) 
Thankfully though, the Patras and electric balls the boss fires out have a high
chance of giving you Ship Hearts. Your objective to kill this boss is to damage
all six of its eyes. Each eye requires two hits to completely damage. Overall,
that's pretty much all I have to explain for the boss.

------------------------
BOSS OF GORON TEMPLE: Dongorongo, Armored Lizard
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
You will be stranded on a small ledge with a quicksand pit seperating you from
the rest of the room. Dongorongo will appear on that side. How to take care of
this boss then? Have no fear, Gongoron is here! He's at the side where the boss
is, so he will help you out. Of course, you have to switch between Link and 
Gongoron. You will automatically control Gongoron, so avoid the boss's triple
fireball attack and kill the Eye Snakes. Watch the top screen too, the Eye 
Snakes may go after Link. If so, Ciela will let you know, so switch to Link and
take care of the enemies. Once the boss starts his ramming attack, dodge him,
then start attacking (tap the boss) until the boss tips over.

Switch to Link and use a Bombchu to crawl right in Dongorongo's mouth, damaging
him. Switch back to Gongoron and repeat the same process twice more, and the
boss will just lay on the ground, dead. The door to the pure metal will open, 
and a bridge will emerge from the quicksand. Gongoron will go on ahead. Go 
across the bridge, and it will sink back down into the quicksand...and 
Dongorongo will get up! Ah, this guy's smart! He was playing dead! Time for 
round 2.

This time, Dongorongo has a special weakpoint on his back. We need to figure
out how to get him knocked over on his side. He has a new attack though, a 
flamethrower attack. It lasts about 10 seconds, and has a big start-up where he
inhales a lot of air. At this point, you throw a Bomb into his mouth. He will
topple over, so head over to his weakpoint and slash it. Repeat until dead. 
Note that Eye Snakes will still attempt to mess you up, so be vigilant.

------------------------
BOSS OF TEMPLE OF ICE: Gleeok, Two-Headed Dragon
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Been a while since we saw a Gleeok, hasn't it? At any rate, at first, the heads
attack by spewing fireballs of different colors. If the red head spews a 
fireball, create a tightrope connecting the top left pole and the bottom right 
pole. This will make the fireball bounce to the blue head and damage its 
helmet. If the blue head spews a blue fireball, create a tightrope connecting 
the top right pole with the bottom left pole. This will bounce the fireball to 
the red head and damage its helmet. Also, if you create a tightrope too soon, 
one of the heads will go and try to bite you, which will coincidentally break 
the tightrope as well.

Occasionally, the heads will suddenly sink down into the water, creating a wave
of water that will sweep the platform you're on. To avoid getting damaged by
the wave, stand on one of the poles, then get back down onto the water when the
wave passes, as ice chunks will attempt to knock you off the pole. Keep dodging
them until the heads come back up. Eventually, both heads' helmets should break
off after about four hits each. Once that happens, a new phase begins.

The heads will come down and bite away the two northern poles, leaving only two
poles left to deal with. Now, the heads will come one at a time to try to bite
you. Avoid those attacks. The head will then attempt to fire a big attack. The
blue head creates ice on the ground that may freeze you, while the red head
creates fire to try to burn you. During this charge up, the heads will have 
their hoop-like tongue out. Use the Grappling Hook to connect the tongue with
a nearby pole, and the head will slam onto the floor, getting dazed. At this
point, you simply slash the head. It may take a couple of tries on each head
before the battle is actually finished.

------------------------
BOSS OF MUTOH'S TEMPLE: Eox, Ancient Stone Soldier
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
This boss really towers above Link...quite big. Its attacks are pretty much 
firing arrows at you, and slamming its fist down to hit you. I recommend having
the Spirit of Wisdom equipped for better defense, since you don't really use
your sword for the boss right now. However, this boss has quite a number of red 
spots popping out of its body. What you have to do, is fling yourself into the 
air using the see-saws so that the boss's weakpoints can be available at the 
touch screen, and start pounding those weakpoints like crazy, its body slowly 
crumbling away. In order to hit the last ones (back of the head, arms, butt),
you have to get behind it. Best way to do it is while it's firing arrows at 
you. When it's looking around for you, that's your chance.

Once its whole body is gone, leaving just its wooden frame, Eox's actual weak
point appears on top of its head. First though, you have to weaken its wooden
frame so that only its head remains. Do the same thing as before. Fling 
yourself into the air, and hit its new red weak spots very quickly so that each
one turns blue. If you're not quick enough, they will turn red again. If 
successful, the body frame will crumble, its head falling onto the floor.

Now, the fight is back to just one screen. The boss will hop around now, 
occasionally firing arrows. Your objective is to...you guessed it. Fling 
yourself onto the boss's head and start slashing that blue weakpoint. Best to
have the Spirit of Power equipped now. Just keep doing this until Eox finally
dies.

-----------
BOSS OF TEMPLE OF THE OCEAN KING: Bellum, Evil Phantom
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
At first, Bellum will sink into the pool of dark water in the center. Its main
eye pointing upward, it occasionally spits out dark gooey enemies that 
strangely resemble Inglets in Metroid Prime 2, if you've played that game 
before. Don't worry, these are more of a boon to you than a bane, as they can
drop hearts when defeated. At any rate, your objective is to first get rid of
all the dark goo splotches on Bellum's body by using your Grappling Hook. Once
you've gotten rid of most of them, you'll be able to latch onto the body itself
and pull Bellum towards you, allowing you to slash repeatedly to damage it. It
may switch positions on you, so just move to him and keep slashing. If you 
didn't get it the first time, Bellum will have dark splotches on him again and
you will have to repeat it until this phase is over with.

Bellum will emerge from the water, and float just below the next level of the
floor with his tentacles keeping him up. Find the staircase and go up. This 
time, Bellum attacks by raising one of his tentacles and attempting to slam you
down. Occasionally those dark Inglet-like enemies drip off from the ceiling, so
free health. What you have to do here is switch to the Bow and shoot down the
eyes on the tentacles until they all close and appear purple. Doing so, Bellum
will drop back down into the dark water pool. Head down there quickly and 
repeat the first phase over again to damage him some more. Only this time he
spits out three Darklet (gonna call them that) enemies at a time instead of 
one. Once that's done, phase two will begin all over again, with him suspended
just below the second level. The only thing that's changed when you get back up
is Darklets blocking your path, and when you're up there, some of the 
tentacles' eyes close temporarily, preventing you from shooting them. Either
way, do the same thing as you did in the second phase. Another thing Bellum
might do is rise up and smash down all his tentacles down onto your floor. To
avoid it, just stand behind one of the pillars. Once all eyes have been sniped,
Bellum will raise himself another level.

Go up the staircase. This is basically a repeat of the second phase once again,
except Bellum summons the Darklets and the eyes close themselves much more
frequently. That and the tentacles also attack more frequently. So it's just a
bit harder version of phase two. Once all the eyes are shot, a scene occurs.
Bellum falls and spits out a glowing orb. Ciela approaches the orb...it shines,
and she feels weird. Oshus's image appears above Link and Ciela, and he tells
Ciela that the orb was another fragment of Ciela's power. Not only is she the
Spirit of Courage, she's also the Spirit of Time! Awesome! Head downstairs all
the way to the bottom, where Bellum is waiting. The third phase begins!

The staircase behind you crumbles off...it's a fight to the death now! Ciela
says that she'll prepare something called "Phantom Spheres." What these do is
let you use the Phantom Hourglass's full powers by stopping time! What you do,
is when Ciela summons a Phantom Sphere and gives it to you, use it by pressing
the button on the bottom. Four curved lines will appear on the screen, as if 
the four corners to a framed artwork. Draw a figure-eight (the shape of an 
hourglass) within that frame at a fast pace. If fast enough, the whole place 
will grey out except for Bellum and Link, and Bellum will be trapped briefly.
Before using this Phantom Sphere though, wait until Bellum is floating around.
Once you do it (for first-timers, it may take multiple tries...just don't get
discouraged) head over to Bellum's main eye and slash away! The best thing to
do is if you have the Spirit of Power equipped (level 2, assuming you followed
the guide all the way) and using the powerful Great Spin attack. Once repeated
enough times, Bellum will fall into the pool of dark water...the fight is 
finished!

-----------
BOSS: Possessed Ghost Ship
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Your objective is to shoot at the dark splotches on the ship and blast them 
off. They will occasionally fire purple orbs at you. Shoot those to gain ship
hearts when you need them. This is actually the only real time where the right
ship parts can help you, as a complete ship part "set" equipped will give you
more ship hearts to work with. If you don't have the right parts, you can pick
Save and Quit and choose to work on getting more ship parts, but it's doable
with even the standard four hearts of Linebeck's original ship. There's nothing
I can really say about the battle. Just beware that it can take a while. 
Remember that you may also have to shoot down the eyes that sprout up from the
Ghost Ship's deck as well. After a while, the Ghost Ship will get destroyed.

-----------
FINAL BOSS: Phantom Knight, Possessed Linebeck
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Bellum has now possessed Linebeck, and is shaped in the form of a gallant 
knight. Actually it seems like a glorified and bigger version of the Phantom
enemy. The Phantom Knight will always face you, and will attack with sword 
slashes. Ciela tells you that Bellum's weakpoint is at the beast's back, and
will give you a Phantom Sphere. Work your magic and move to behind the 
Knight...there's no weak point. Confused, Ciela tries something and moves 
behind the Knight, and finds out that Bellum opens his eye every once in a 
while, and that's his weakpoint. The top screen changes to show this, but Ciela
gets captured in a tentacle, so she can't summon a Phantom Sphere.

What now then? Well, time for a sword duel. Avoid sword slashes from the 
Phantom Knight, and wait until he's open. Start slashing repeatedly until you
two clash swords. Rub the stylus until the Phantom Knight bends backwards as if
stunned. Slash him once and he kneels down, releasing his grip on Ciela long 
enough for her to spawn a Phantom Sphere. Now, prepare to stop time, and watch 
the top screen. When Bellum's eye is open, stop time immediately then rush to 
the back and slash like crazy. As before, this is much easier if done with the 
level 2 Spirit of Power equipped and using the Great Spin attack. Don't be 
afraid to use a potion here if you have one. Repeat until he's dead. Keep in
mind that the Phantom Knight may use a spin attack of his own. It's very hard
to dodge, but you can clank with it without getting damaged by timing your own
spin attack just right. You can do it, I know you can!
  _                                                                         _
 / |                                                                       | \
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
 |                                  Credits                                  |
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nintendo - For making a great franchise.
You - For reading this.
Jak - For helping me on clarification in one of the walkthrough sections.
Devon - For pointing out a loophole in the Legal Notices, so I fixed it.
*insert any other people that may help me out through emails and stuff*

**************
See you on my next Zelda guide! Check out the guides I've made so far, 
including the Wind Waker map I helped make on GameFAQs! It's Crono's.