*****************************************************************************

                      Yoshi's Island DS FAQ/Walkthrough
                             For the Nintendo DS
                       Version 1.0 (Created 1/11/2007)
                               By Devin Morgan

      This file is Copyright (c)2007 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved.

*****************************************************************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Story
4. Controls
5. Overview
6. Walkthrough
7. Mini-Games
8. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
9. Copyright Notice
10. Contact Information

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.0 (1/11/07): The first, complete version of this FAQ.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

After a decade since the original SNES game, we finally have a new Yoshi's 
Island adventure for the Nintendo DS. It is NOT a port of the original, 
instead you get a brand new adventure with the typical Yoshi's Island 
gameplay elements. This time around, you can make use of five different 
babies, each with their own special abilities, throughout the course of the 
game. Lengthwise, this may be a somewhat shorter game, but the challenge is 
definitely high up, especially with all the different possibilities and 
things to collect in each stage. If you liked the first Yoshi's Island and 
are aware this is not a straight port of the original, you must get this 
game. It is a great platformer with plenty of challenge to keep you playing 
it for quite some time!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Story  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

The sun shines bright on Yoshi's Island, home to all Yoshis. Yoshi is 
enjoying the beautiful day with a leisurely stroll. Suddenly, out of nowhere, 
some babies drop out of the sky! Miraculously, the babies appear to be just 
fine. One of the babies looks very familiar to Yoshi...

"Now where did those brats go?!"

"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAK! Incompetent FOOLS!"

Kamek the evil Magikoopa returns to his castle, with his toadies following. 
Kamek's plan is revealed: he's kidnapping babies from all around the world!

The Yoshis hold a meeting to decide what to do with the babies who fell from 
the sky. Baby Mario looks forlorn and confused. There were more babies, and 
they have all been kidnapped! Baby Mario can't save them by himself!

Once again, the Yoshi clan decides to save the day. This time, the stork is 
coming with them too. A new journey begins. Can the Yoshis and babies triumph 
over Kamek and save Baby Luigi?

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

NOTE: The controls listed below are based on the default control scheme; feel
      free to use a different setup if you so desire.

Control Pad: Move the cursor, move Yoshi, make eggs (press Down with enemy in
             mouth), ground pound (press Down after jumping)

B: Jump (hold to flutter)

Y: Eat or spit out an enemy, shoot fireballs (with Baby Bowser only)

A: Bring up crosshairs for egg aiming (press again to shoot)

X: Lock the aiming cursor in a specific direction (press again to unlock)

L: Same as X

R: Same as A

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Characters
----------

Baby Mario: The main baby in the game, whom you will be using most often.
            With him, you will be able to hit M blocks, as well as outlines
            of them. Having Baby Mario on your back will allow you to run
            really fast, which can be quite useful in some spots. When you
            shoot eggs with him, they will bounce off the walls a couple
            times, allowing you to hit hard-to-reach targets. As the egg
            turns yellow and red from the bouncing, you can use your tongue
            to reclaim it.

Baby Peach: You will meet the young princess several levels into the game.
            She will carry an umbrella, which will allow her to fly in the
            wind with ease. Baby Peach is the only character who can fly in
            the wind (only when it's blowing, of course), which is the only
            way to reach some areas of the game.

Baby DK: This is the younger version of the legendary ape who started it all,
         whom you meet at the start of World 2. His ability enables you to
         climb vines and swing on ropes hanging from above. When you throw
         eggs with Baby DK in tow, they will become rather explosive,
         allowing you to kill many enemies instantly. These explosive eggs
         will let you break certain cracked blocks as well. Also, if you try
         to pound a stake, the added weight will pound it all the way down in
         one shot.

Baby Wario: This greedy baby will come along in the middle of World 3, almost
            by chance. He carries a magnet, which will attract coins and
            other metallic objects when you get close enough to them. You can
            also pull metal blocks if you face away from them and walk away,
            as well as metal platforms by jumping below them. He only stays
            with you for a couple of worlds before running off as a result of
            his greed, but will rejoin you for the final stage.

Baby Bowser: Finally, the younger version of the evil King Bowser will cross
             paths with you in the middle of World 4. He will join your group
             for a short time, during which you aren't sure if he's a friend
             or foe (naturally). Baby Bowser's ability enables you to shoot
             fireballs by pressing Y, which means you cannot eat enemies and
             make eggs with him in tow. Your only way to get eggs is by
             standing near an egg flower. The fireballs he shoots can be used
             to melt ice blocks and light torches on the walls so you can
             better see your surroundings.


Stage Gameplay/Collectibles
---------------------------

In each stage, there will be a few sets of collectible items to be found. 
These collectibles consist of stars (30 total), red coins (20 total), and 
flowers (5 total). You start off each stage with 10 stars. However, if you 
are attacked by an enemy, your baby will fly off in a bubble and you will 
begin to lose stars. If you don't recover the baby by the time you reach zero 
stars, you lose a life. Once you recover the baby, you will regain stars 
(assuming you had less than 10), topping off at 10. Collecting more stars 
will act as a timer extension should you be attacked and lose the baby 
temporarily.

There are 20 red coins scattered through each level. They are disguised as 
regular gold coins, but when you collect them, they make a different sound. 
Keep in mind that you can also collect red coins (or any coins for that 
matter) by shooting eggs at them.

In addition to the stars and coins, there are five flowers to be found in 
each stage. If you collect all five, you gain an extra life. At the end of 
the stage, where you jump through the ring, flowers (which invoke the bonus 
stage) will appear on the ring, increasing your chances to get a bonus round. 
Like the coins, you can also shoot eggs to collect the flowers.

There are also large gold coins known as character coins in each level (one 
per level). You can only collect the character coin while carrying the proper 
baby on Yoshi's back. If you don't have the correct baby with you, the coin 
will appear as a round outline. Once you grab the coin, get to the end of the 
stage to keep it permanently. For some stages, you won't have access to the 
correct baby in order to collect the coin until later; simply come back later 
in the game to retrieve it.

At the end of every non-boss stage, you will come to a Goal Ring which you 
jump through. The Goal Ring itself will be filled with however many Flowers 
you collected through the course of the level; the remaining spaces will be 
empty slots. As a bonus, a ball will spin around the ring, and if it stops on 
a Flower, you will go to a bonus mini-game for a chance to win extra lives. 
If you hit an empty slot, you will still go on to the next level without 
getting to play a bonus game.


Scoring
-------

At the end of each level, your score will be tallied based on how many of the 
collectibles you obtained. The highest score you can have is 100. The points 
breakdown is as follows: 30 stars (30 points), 20 red coins (20 points), 5 
flowers (50 points; 10 per flower). You can always return to previously 
completed levels to improve upon your score if you so desire.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

NOTE: For this walkthrough, I will break up each stage into six sections.
      Five of the sections will detail collecting each Flower and anything in
      between, then the sixth section will lead from the final flower to the
      end of the level or the boss, depending on which stage it is. Also,
      please note that there will be certain Character Coins you will need to
      return later on to collect, so don't expect to collect everything in
      your very first time through a stage.

======================================
Intro: Welcome Back to Yoshi's Island!
======================================

In this beginner's stage, you will be given some information about the stars 
and the counter. head to the right and collect some coins, and eat the Shy 
Guy to make an egg. Hit the purple spotted block to enlarge it, then jump 
onto the ledge and onto the right ledge from the block. Jump to the right and 
grab some coins, then jump and flutter (hold B while jumping) to the higher 
ledge ahead. Bounce on the balls pointing upward (the larger the ball, the 
higher you will bounce) to reach the top area, then go right to exit.


======================
World 1-1: Ba-dum BUM!
======================

Flower 1
--------

Begin by going right, turning the enemies you encounter into eggs. Jump to 
collect the first Flower and the four coins surrounding it.

Flower 2
--------

Continue going right and you will see a winged cloud floating above the 
platform. Shoot an egg at it to make stairs appear. Go up the stairs and head 
left to collect the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

From where you grabbed the previous Flower, continue left and jump to the 
next platform in the air. Collect the three red coins (3), then drop to the 
ground and continue going to the right. Shoot the hanging piranha plant with 
an egg to kill it, then collect a red coin (4) and go down the pipe. Hit the 
red switch, then run along the ledges as you make your way downward, 
collecting all the coins. Then, bounce your way upward to exit this room.

Back outside, go left and collect another red coin (5), then jump from the 
brown ledge to the upper-left platform. Shoot the winged cloud to get 5 
stars, then flutter to the right, grabbing the red coin (6) at the end of the 
coin line. Ride the platforms as they move in a circular pattern, grabbing 
three red coins (9) as you go around. Once you get them all, drop down to the 
lower-left area to reach the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Jump back onto the moving platforms, then jump onto the upper-right ledge at 
the peak. If you go down the hill into the corner, you can reveal a hidden 
winged cloud, which will yield 5 stars if you shoot an egg at it. Otherwise, 
flutter in the air to grab the coins, especially the red coin (10) at the 
end. Up ahead, you will find the fourth Flower in the air, floating above a 
pipe which spits out an infinite number of Shy Guys (make eggs out of them if 
you need to).

Flower 5
--------

From this point, go right and defeat the flower enemy, then shoot the winged 
cloud to make a sunflower grow. Jump upward on its leaves, then ride the 
platforms as they go around to collect four more red coins (14). Shoot the 
winged cloud to the left to make stairs appear. Go up them and collect three 
red coins (17), then shoot the winged cloud above to reveal the final Flower. 
There is also a hidden winged cloud if you walk along the lowest point of 
this platform, which contains 5 stars if you need them. Also, you can collect 
a 1-up from the Shy Guy flying to the left.

Goal Ring
---------

Head right and go back down the stairs, then flutter to the right ledge. Jump 
through the Middle Ring, which not only gives you 10 stars but acts as a 
checkpoint should you die in a level. From there, run along the path to the 
right until you reach a pipe with an arrow pointing downward on it. Go down 
that pipe and collect the Character Coin with Baby Mario (he's the only baby 
you have at this point so this shouldn't be a problem).

Once you have the coin, jump back up the ledges and exit the pipe room. Go 
right and avoid the falling Shy Guys, while jumping to collect the remaining 
three red coins (20) hidden among the regular ones). Shoot the winged cloud 
if you need stars, otherwise continue to the Goal Ring.


============================
World 1-2: Hit the M Blocks!
============================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head right and you'll see some red M blocks. They will only be 
visible when you have Baby Mario. Hit them to get some coins, then jump onto 
the blocks and collect the first red coin (1) above them. Drop down to the 
ground and continue right, hitting three more M blocks, one of which 
containing a seed that will sprout a sunflower. Collect the coins to the 
right and you will find a red coin (2), then jump onto the ledge and hop up 
the leaves of the flower.

At the top, jump onto the left platform and look upward to see a Shy Guy 
carrying a red coin. Shoot it down with an egg to collect the coin (3), then 
jump to grab the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Go right and jump onto the ledge on the right side of the flower. Hit the M 
block and two stars will jump out. Also, collect the coins in the air; one of 
them is a red coin (4). Next, drop to the lower area and continue right. 
Shoot the winged cloud in the air to get 5 stars, then stand just to the 
right of the hint block. Looking on the top screen, you'll see a bunch of 
coins overhead. Shoot an egg straight up at them to collect them all, 
including a red coin at the top (5).

Continue to the right and you will reach a pipe and two eggs you can collect. 
Above you, on the top screen, there are more coins to be collected. Shoot an 
egg at them, and you will be able to obtain the red coin hiding amongst them 
(6). After that, go down the pipe to reach the next room.

In the underground room, head right and drop downward along the mushroom 
platforms, collecting the coins above each, including the two red coins (8). 
At the bottom, walk to the right and collect more coins and a red coin (9) 
among them. Above the second group of mushroom platforms, you'll see the 
flower on the top screen. Aim and shoot an egg upward to collect the second 
Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue to the right and hit the M block to make a ball come out. Bounce on 
it to reach the upper area, and collect the Character Coin to the left 
(you'll need to have Baby Peach for this; use the Stork Sign in this room if 
you have her available, otherwise wait until later). On the right side, you 
can trigger a hidden winged cloud containing 5 stars. Drop to the lower area 
and continue right, jumping on the next series of platforms and defeating the 
plant enemies. Above you is a Shy Guy holding a red coin; shoot it down to 
collect the coin (10).

At the far right area, hit the M blocks to reveal another ball to bounce on. 
Jump through the Middle Ring checkpoint, then bounce to the upper area. Jump 
to collect all the coins in the air, including the three red coins (13) in 
the mix. Go right and jump to collect the Key floating in the air, then head 
back to the left and unlock the door. You will get to play a mini-game of 
sorts for a chance to gain extra lives. After you're done, jump over the gap 
and head right to the end, then bounce out of this room.

Out here, hit the M block to sprout a sunflower. Jump up its leaves to reach 
the upper ledge, then aim upward and shoot the winged cloud to make stairs 
appear. Go up the stairs and collect the coins, one of which being a red coin 
(14), then jump into the pipe above. Hit the red switch, then quickly run and 
jump your way to the rightmost area (you have to be fast to make it up the 
platforms). At the end, you will be able to collect the Flower.

Flower 4
--------

After you collect the flower, go back left and down the pipe to exit the 
room. Drop to the ground and head right, jumping on the barrier enemies to 
clear them (you can also shoot eggs at them). Collect the two red coins (16) 
along the path, then grab the fourth Flower in the alcove behind the tallest 
barrier enemy.

Flower 5
--------

Jump to the upper ledge and continue to the right, where you will find 
platforms moving in a circular pattern. Ride the larger circle of platforms 
all the way around, collecting all the coins and the last four red coins (20) 
along the way. At the top of the ride, aim upward and shoot the winged cloud 
to reveal a flower. Shoot another egg upward to collect it.

Goal Ring
---------

From the moving platforms, simply go right and jump into the Goal Ring to 
complete this stage.


=============================
World 1-3: Mario's Fleet Feet
=============================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, make your way to the right, jumping up and down the ledges as 
you encounter them. If you go far enough to the right, a giant spiked ball 
enemy will fall from above to chase you along the path. You must run to avoid 
getting hit and inevitably dying from it. As you run, be sure to collect all 
the coins; there are seven red coins (7) hidden among them. You'll usually 
have to jump quickly to catch the red ones. At the end, flutter to collect 
the Flower, then go through the bumpers and pass through the Middle Ring 
checkpoint. After that, run into the second area ahead.

Flower 2
--------

In this room, make eggs out of the Shy Guys that spawn endlessly from the 
pipe, then shoot through the yellow wall to the right. Go through the opening 
and aim upward to shoot down a ball you can bounce on. Bounce to the upper 
ledge, then jump to the left platform where you can hit a few M blocks to 
obtain four stars if you want.

From here, head to the right and shoot down the piranha plant enemy. Make 
eggs out of the next several enemies you encounter, then jump up a couple of 
ledges and you will see a diagonal line of coins in the air. Line up with the 
coins and shoot an egg at the spot on the wall the arrow is pointing at. With 
luck, you will collect two red coins (9) and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue to the right and shoot eggs throw the yellow walls to create 
passages through it. Shoot your way to the upper-left area, where you can 
follow the path to a line of four coins, one of which is a red coin (10). In 
the bottom-right area, there is an egg box you can hit if you need more eggs. 
Run up the hill and push the boulder to the right, killing the enemies in the 
way. When you reach the flat portion, jump and flutter to grab the coins in 
the air, as well as two red coins (12). Aim upward and shoot the winged cloud 
to get 5 stars, then jump to the right ledge and enter the next area.

Here, go right and hit the first red switch to make a couple ledges appear. 
Quickly jump up them to the next platform, then hit the next switch to make 
another long path of M blocks appear. Run all the way to the right along this 
path (ignore the arrow signs pointing the other way for now). At the far 
right, jump to the ledge above you to grab the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

After you have the flower, flutter to the left and pass through the bumpers. 
Then, jump up a series of ledges and hit the next red switch. Head to the 
left, jumping from ledge to ledge (jump over the barrier enemies in your 
way). Head up and to the right through another set of bumpers, and you'll be 
able to hit yet another switch. Run to the right, jumping over the gaps and 
enemies, and you will reach a point where you can either go up or down. Jump 
to the upper ledge and collect the coins on it; three of them are red coins 
(15).

If you run out of time, simply head back to the left and hit the switch 
again. This time, take the lower path of M blocks to the end. Go up the hill 
at the end, then follow the arrows into the next section of the level. There, 
go right and ground pound the stake to get a red coin (16). Also, break the 
wooden box to receive some stars. Go up the hill to the right and pound 
another stake to get a red coin (17). Then, jump to the left ledge and follow 
the line of coins to another stake. Collect the red coin above the stake (18) 
and pound it down to reveal a winged cloud. Shoot it to make blocks rise up, 
allowing you to access the pipe.

Go up the pipe to reach a bonus area of sorts. Jump into the kangaroo's pouch 
and it'll constantly hop in the air, allowing you to collect coins along the 
way. About halfway through the area, you can jump to grab the fourth Flower; 
you can't miss it.

Flower 5
--------

At the end of the coin path, disembark from the kangaroo and go down the pipe 
to exit the area. When you land, hit the egg block if you need to, otherwise 
ground pound through the wooden box and the yellow wall below it. Go right 
and jump through the ledge above you, then collect all the coins in the air, 
including the red coin (19) directly above the stake. Pound the stake to get 
the final red coin (20). After that, ground pound the cracked block to 
destroy it, then go down and collect the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Go through the bumpers and jump to the ledge above you once again. Head to 
the right and you will see the wind blowing upward. If you have Baby Peach, 
you can fly in the breeze to collect the Character Coin. Otherwise, continue 
right and jump into the Goal Ring to end the stage.


=======================================
World 1-4: Castle of the Big Burt Bros.
=======================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head to the right and hit the yellow egg blocks to receive two 
yellow eggs. Shoot down the buckets hanging in the air for some coins, then 
continue to some ledges you can jump on. Jump to collect the coins above both 
sets of ledges, including four red coins (4). Shoot the winged cloud ahead 
and hit the red switch that appears to make some platforms appear. Jump up 
the first couple of platforms, then hop along the rotating ledges to reach 
the next red platform. Quickly jump to the right to reach a safe platform, 
then pound the stake to obtain the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

With the first flower, go left and drop to the lower area. Go right and 
collect the coins in the air, two of them being red coins (6). Then, go 
through the door to reach the second room. In there, hit the egg block to the 
right to refill your supply. Then, continue to the right and you will see 
spiked columns rotating around the next several platforms. Make your way past 
when it's safe, collecting all the coins along the way. You should be able to 
procure four more red coins here (10).

Jump through the Middle Ring to the right, then drop to the right side and 
collect the coin under the platform; it's another red coin (11). Above you, 
there are some ledges you can jump onto. Make your way upward and to the 
left, jumping to avoid the spiked pillars as you progress. When you get to 
the far left, you will find some coins and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

From here, hop back to the right across the platforms. Flutter over to the 
right and you will be able to nab the Character Coin with Baby Mario in tow. 
Drop to the lower area and head right until you reach the wheel of green 
ledges. Hop on the ledges and the entire system will start to roll towards 
the side you landed on. Make your way to the right across the lava pit by 
hopping on the ledges to rotate the wheel. Along the way, grab all the coins 
since five of them are red coins (15). At the end, jump from the green ledges 
to the stationary ledge in the air to the right. Look upward and shoot an egg 
at the spot where the arrows are pointing. It will ricochet, allowing you to 
grab the third Flower in the process.

Flower 4
--------

After you have the third flower, drop down to the ledge below and go through 
the door to the next room. In the room ahead, go right until you reach the 
egg block. Jump onto the purple platform that moves up and down, and ride it 
upward. Hit the yellow and red egg blocks to get some eggs, then jump to the 
left side. Collect the four coins, which includes two red coins (17). In the 
area to the left, you will have to deal with two small Burt Bros. Defeat them 
by ground pounding them, or shooting eggs (eggs will get you stars). After 
you clear the way, grab the fourth Flower in the back corner.

Flower 5
--------

Ride the green platform upward, then go right and drop to the green egg block 
below. Replenish your egg supply, then drop onto the yellow platform and ride 
it to the left. Collect the red coin (18) and a couple other coins, then jump 
back to the ledge above. As you jump to the purple platform that moves left 
and right, collect the coins in the air which will give you the final two red 
coins (20).

From the purple platform, jump to the platform with the arrow sign on it. 
Jump onto the next purple platform, then onto a green one above it. When the 
green platform moves to the left, jump onto the next green platform that 
moves up and down. Ride it upward, then jump onto the upper ledge and break 
the wooden box to get a Key. Get back down to the horizontally-moving 
platform, and look upward. You will see three winged clouds; shoot the 
rightmost one and it will make stairs appear. Go up the stairs and enter the 
left door.

In this room, make eggs out of the enemies on the ledges, then shoot the eggs 
at the piranha plants. Kill all the plants and the final Flower will appear 
in the middle of the room. Collect it, then go through the door in the lower 
right area to exit.

Boss Battle
-----------

Back in the previous room, go left and drop straight down to the area below. 
Now, go right and unlock the door with your Key to enter the room. Go right 
through the second Middle Ring, then hit the egg block to fill up. When 
you're ready, go through the red door and walk to the right to meet the Big 
Burt Bros.

To defeat them, your best bet is to duck in one of the alcoves at either end 
of the room, so that you don't risk getting hit by either of them. Shoot an 
egg at either of them to damage them both (they both turn yellow for a few 
moments when hit). If you need more eggs, there is a flower in the center 
area which constantly spits out eggs, so be careful if you need to reach it. 
Do this several times until they deflate entirely, giving you the victory.


============================
World 1-5: Catch the Breeze!
============================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, run to the right and collect a few regular coins. When you 
come to a pipe, go down it to reach the room below. There, you will find the 
first Flower in the bottom area. Collect it, then jump back out of here.

Flower 2
--------

Back outside again, jump to the right ledge and flutter in the air to collect 
some more coins. If you drop to the lower area, you can go right and reveal a 
hidden winged cloud containing 5 stars. To the right, you will see the first 
Stork Stop. Stand in front of it and the sign will turn red, and the stork 
will appear. Hit the pouch that the stork carries and you can switch babies 
at these stops. Switch to Baby Peach, then flutter into the wind gust to the 
right, and you will fly upward (this is Baby Peach's special ability, so 
remember this for the future).

Make your way up through two wind gusts, collecting all the regular coins and 
five red coins (5) on the way up. At the top, walk right into the next area. 
There, go right and jump through the Middle Ring to set a checkpoint. 
Continue right and make eggs out of a couple Shy Guys, then flutter upward in 
the wind. When you land on the ledges high above, jump to the right and grab 
all the coins. There will be two red coins (7) among them, plus you can find 
the second Flower up here as well.

Flower 3
--------

Drop off the right side of the platform you're on and continue going right. 
At the next wind gust, fly upward to the high ledges. Eat the Shy Guys as you 
make your way upward, then collect the two red coins (9) within the bunch, as 
well as the third Flower to the left.

Flower 4
--------

After you obtain the next flower, go right and defeat the piranha plant with 
an egg shot. Follow the coin trail as it drops you onto a thin ledge. Shoot 
the winged cloud above you to get an extra life, then drop downward. Hit the 
winged cloud you find there to receive 5 stars. Defeat the piranha plant to 
the right and follow the path heading up the hill. You will find another gust 
of wind blowing diagonally upward. If you go into the room to the right 
first, you can fly above the wind-generating flower to reveal a hidden winged 
cloud containing 5 more stars.

Go back to the diagonally-blowing wind gust and fly upward with it. Along the 
way up, you'll see a ledge to the right with two coins on it. Collect the 
coins and walk into the alcove to the right to reveal a hidden winged cloud. 
Shoot it to find the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you grab the flower, ride the wind gust to the top area, collecting 
three red coins in the process (12). Fly upward with the wind gust, then 
flutter your way to the left, where you will find a few donut platforms. Hop 
across them to reach a hidden platform. Grab the coins, including two red 
coins (14) and the Character Coin (which you can collect as Baby Peach). 
Also, shoot the winged cloud overhead to get 5 more stars if you need them.

Once you're done over here, hop back across the donut platforms and continue 
to the right. Go all the way right and drop down to the lower area, then 
continue right some more. Defeat the piranha plant on the ceiling and make 
eggs out of the Shy Guys. To the right, you will find some flowers blowing 
tall wind gusts above them. Fly upward in the first gust to get a red coin 
(15), and land on the upper-left ledge.

Up there, collect a couple more coins and a red coin (16). Head right and 
flutter upward through all three of the wind gusts, collecting all the coins 
on the way up. There are lines of coins towards the top of each gust, as well 
as between the gusts; two red coins can be had by collecting the coins within 
the gusts themselves (18). Fly in the rightmost gust and you will see a room 
you can flutter into to the right. Defeat the piranha plant and Shy Guys, and 
jump across the small ledges to reach the far right perch. Collect the last 
two red coins there (20), and shoot the winged cloud to get more stars.

Go back into the wind gust and flutter upward in it until you reach the very 
top. Land on the left ledge and collect the final Flower there.

Goal Ring
---------

From where you grabbed the last flower, simply go right and flutter over the 
tall wind gust. Land on the right side of it and jump into the Goal Ring up 
ahead to clear this stage.


=======================================
World 1-6: Glide Guys Take to the Skies
=======================================

NOTE: It would be a good idea to start off this stage with Baby Peach. If you
      did not, run all the way right from the start and you will come to a
      Stork Stop where you can switch. The walkthrough for this stage assumes
      you begin with Baby Peach.

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and flutter upward in the first wind gust. If you 
want, aim upward and shoot the high winged cloud to get five stars. Activate 
the Stork Stop on the upper ledge and switch to Baby Mario, then jump over 
the gap to the right ledge. Hit the M block to make a sunflower grow out of 
it. Jump up its leaves and flutter onto the left ledge, where you can collect 
a red coin (1) and the Character Coin.

Drop back down to the Stork Stop and switch back to Baby Peach, then flutter 
to the top of the wind gust on the right. Jump onto the high ledge to the 
left and shoot the winged cloud overhead to gain an extra life. Then, flutter 
to the right over the wind gust to the other side. Follow the coin trail as 
it leads back to the area below, then shoot an egg at the piranha plant 
sitting atop a pipe. Then, go down the pipe into the room below. Down there, 
go right along the bottom area and shoot the Shy Guy holding a visible red 
coin (2) at the far end, then go up the pipe to exit.

Back outside, jump and flutter to the left to collect all the coins in the 
air, including two more red coins (4). Then, head right and you will see 
several Shy Guys floating in the wind. Fly upward in the gusts yourself and 
collect the first Flower overhead.

Flower 2
--------

Continue to the right and shoot the winged cloud you see. It will activate 
the flower below, causing a wind gust to blow upward. Flutter upward in the 
wind and you will reveal a hidden winged cloud; shoot it down to get five 
more stars. Land on the upper-right ledge and shoot the barrier enemy with an 
egg so you can get past. When the flower ahead starts turning again, float 
upward in its gusts, collecting the coins on the way up to score another red 
coin (5).

Wait for the gust to start up again, then float to the high ledge on the left 
side. There are two winged clouds there to be shot down; one will yield coins 
and the other will have a Flower.

Flower 3
--------

After you have the second flower, run back up the steep hill and flutter over 
the gap to the right platform. Head to the right and hit the egg box if you 
need eggs, which you most likely will. In the area ahead, there are several 
pitcher and batter enemies which will intercept any eggs you shoot at them. 
To kill them, you have to jump on their heads three times each and dodge any 
eggs they may toss at you. There are several winged clouds above you, two of 
which will give you stars. Also, shoot the Shy Guy carrying a red coin (6) 
overhead. The final winged cloud to the right will have the Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Continue to the right from here and defeat the pitcher enemy. Shoot the 
winged cloud to activate the left flower if you want, otherwise fly upward in 
the tall wind gusts of the right flower to reach the following area. There, 
jump through the Middle Ring and head right to the Helicopter bubble. Touch 
it to morph into a Helicopter for a short period of time (As a quick note 
about when you morph, there is a Yoshi block at the end of the path you must 
hit to end the sequence. Also, you can add time to your morph by passing 
through any additional bubbles along the way. If you run out of time, you 
will go back to where you started.)

There is a red coin to be found on the ledge directly below where you start 
off (7). After you grab it, head upward towards the top of the area and 
continue to the right. There are six more red coins (13) that can be obtained 
by floating around and collecting coins in the upper-right sector of this 
room. You will also find the fourth Flower there, too.

Flower 5
--------

When you make it to the far right area of the room, hit the Yoshi block to 
revert back to normal. Then, go down the pipe to reach the next area. There, 
go right and hit the egg box to fill up, then jump onto the green platform. 
Shoot the gear above it to move the platform along its track, allowing you to 
collect the coins, including three red coins (16) on the way. At the end, 
jump onto the right ledge and you will see another platform above with a 
Paratroopa floating above it. Jump onto that platform and collect the fifth 
and final Flower there.

Goal Ring
---------

Drop down to the ledge below and continue right past the Stork Stop. When you 
reach the diagonally blowing wind gust, fly upward with it, collecting two 
red coins (18) on the way. When you land, go left and shoot a winged cloud to 
get five stars if you need them. Otherwise, flutter in the air to be blown to 
the right with the next gust. Once you land, you will see another diagonal 
wind gust. Fly along it to collect the last two red coins (20). If you want, 
drop to the lower area and hit the red switch to collect a slew of regular 
coins in the air. Otherwise, fly with the wind gust to the upper-right ledge 
and hop through the Goal Ring.


=================================================
World 1-7: Baby Mario and Baby Peach: Dynamic Duo
=================================================

Flower 1
--------

Start by going to the Stork Stop and switching to Baby Mario if you don't 
already have him. Jump onto the M blocks and then to the upper ledge, and 
make eggs out of the flower enemies. Jump to the ledges above and collect the 
two red coins (2) floating in the air. Then, flutter to the high ledge to the 
right and shoot the winged cloud to get five stars. Go back down and continue 
right, then jump from the next couple of M blocks to reach the high ledge. 
Jump from the M blocks above the arrow sign to reach the left ledge. Use the 
Stork Stop to switch to Baby Peach.

Since the pit of M blocks have vanished, go right and drop down to collect 
the first Flower. Then, hit the red switch and fly upward in the wind before 
it stops again, and land on the upper-right ledge.

Flower 2
--------

After you land, go right and collect all the coins, jumping to grab the three 
red coins (5) on the way. Follow the path as it goes down and to the left, 
then switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop. Hit the red switch to make a 
long path appear, then quickly run along it. Hop across the gaps to the next 
platforms before they all vanish and you have to start over. Along the way, 
collect the coins, including two red coins (7).

Once you make it to the end, go down the pipe with an arrow on it. In that 
room, you can collect a Super Star, which will allow you to run along as a 
caped Baby Mario for a brief period. You can collect additional Super Stars 
in this form to extend the amount of time you get to use the powers. Grab the 
first star and jump to the right ledge, then run along the walls and ceiling, 
grabbing the next star along the way. After the dip in the path on the 
ceiling, glide to the left and collect the Flower in midair. Once you have 
it, drop down to the ground and exit via the pipe when the power wears out.

Flower 3
--------

Once you exit the room, go right and defeat the piranha plant, then go into 
the next area. There, hit the egg box and head all the way right. Jump onto 
the M blocks and hit the purple egg block to enlarge it. Jump from it to the 
Stork Stop on the ledge above, and switch to Baby Peach. Drop to the lower 
area and head left by the egg box, then go down the now accessible pipe. Down 
there, collect the third Flower, then exit.

Flower 4
--------

Now, head right and pass through the Middle Ring to set the checkpoint. Hop 
across the pipes, then switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop. Go left a 
little and hit the outlines of the M blocks above to make them turn solid. 
Jump onto each newly formed ledge and hit all the outlines to form steps 
leading to the flower. Switch back to Baby Peach at the Stork Stop, then hop 
up these ledges and fly in the wind with the flower. Fly to the right, 
collecting the entire line of coins, including three red coins (10) among 
them. When you reach the right side, fly upward with the next flower to reach 
a new area.

Here, go right into the wall to reveal a new set of passages. Use your tongue 
to knock the spiked enemy into the small pit behind it (this is to be safe), 
and continue all the way right. Ignore the left-pointing arrow sign for now 
and you will come to some vines. Drop to the lower area and go left to reveal 
two winged clouds containing 1-ups. Go right and aim upward with an egg to 
collect the fourth Flower. If you have Baby DK, switch to him and climb the 
rightmost vine to reach a hidden room where the Character Coin is located.

Flower 5
--------

Head to the left and bounce on the ball to reach the high ledge again, then 
go into the wall. Jump onto the upper path and follow it to the left. When 
you reach the Stork Stop, ignore it for now, and jump into a hidden opening 
directly to the left. Collect the coins as you drop to an area below, then go 
right. Collect a regular coin and a red coin (11) in the alcove, then fly to 
the ledge above in the wind.

Backtrack by going right, then up and left, until you reach the Stork Stop 
again. Switch to Baby Mario and the M blocks will appear. Jump up to the 
first small ledge in the air, then jump into a hidden opening in the left 
wall to collect two red coins (13). Go back right and jump up all the ledges 
comprised of M blocks. Go through the right wall and pass through the 
bumpers, then morph into a Mole Tank by touching the bubble.

As the Mole Tank, go up the wall and start plowing through the yellow walls 
to the right. When you reach the section where there are many coins scattered 
around, collect them all; three of them are red coins (16). Plow through to 
the opening at the right side and hit the Yoshi block to switch back to 
normal. Go right and drop down to a pipe, then go through to the next room.

When you emerge, go left into a hidden room in the wall. Shoot an egg at the 
green Arrow Cloud in the air, and the egg will be launched around a narrow 
passage, eventually claiming the fifth Flower for you.

Goal Ring
---------

Head to the right and jump across to the platform with an arrow sign on it. 
Drop down and jump into the right side of the platform to reveal a hidden 
alcove containing a red coin (17). Get back onto the platform by the sign, 
and jump into the right wall. Jump to the upper-right ledge and defeat the 
Shy Guy, then shoot the winged cloud to sprout a sunflower. Hop up its leaves 
and go right to the outside portion. Jump to the moving green platform and 
aim upward, then shoot the Shy Guy to claim a red coin (18). Flutter your way 
downward as you fall, collecting the Key that also floats around (if you miss 
it, land on the ledge below and shoot an egg at it).

Fall to the very bottom of this room and go left into the wall. Switch to 
Baby Peach, and shoot an egg at the Arrow Cloud, causing the egg to fall into 
the large red flower. It will shoot out five stars if you need them. After 
that, hit the egg block to resupply, then go back right. Defeat the Shy Guy 
on the ledge, then jump to it and use your tongue to knock the spiked enemy 
off its perch.

Jump from that block onto the red switch, which will cause the wind to blow 
upward. Fly all the way up to the green platform, and jump into the right 
wall. Unlock the door in that room and you will enter a mini-game where you 
will gain extra lives based on how many enemies you make eggs out of within 
30 seconds. After you complete it, go back left and drop down to the bottom 
area. Then, go right into another hidden opening. Knock the spiked enemy into 
its pit, and bounce on the ball ahead to reach the higher platform.

Collect the red coin among the regular ones (19) in the air, then go left. 
Hop up the ledges to reach the upper area, and eat all the Shy Guys to make 
more eggs. After that, go right and continue to the outside portion once 
more. As soon as you are outside, look above you and shoot the flying Shy Guy 
to collect the final red coin (20). Be quick, since it will fly away if you 
take too long, causing you to miss out on the coin. Once you have it, go 
right and jump into the Goal Ring to complete the stage.


=====================================
World 1-8: Gilbert the Gooey's Castle
=====================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and make eggs out of the blob enemies that hang and 
swing from the ceiling. Shoot the winged cloud you see to get five stars. 
When you reachthe green platform moving on its track, jump onto it. Aim 
upward and shoot eggs at the three Shy Guys to get the red coins (3) they are 
holding. Jump to the right ledge and make an egg out of the blob. Avoid the 
spiked column rotating around the platform ahead, and jump to collect the 
coins, particularly the red coin (4) at the top. Go right and jump over the 
two spiked columns, collecting the first Flower above that platform.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the flower, go right and pass the pipe for now. You will reach 
what seems to be a dead end. However, you can shoot an egg at the brown block 
at the bottom portion of the wall to make the wall fall out. Then, jump into 
the open area to get four red coins (8) and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

With the second flower, go back left and head down the pipe. In the next 
room, go right and jump onto the first moving platform. Eat the blob above 
you, and collect the two red coins (10) as you move up and down. Jump to the 
rotating platforms and you will be able to grab three more red coins (13) in 
the air. As you continue to the right, make eggs out of the two blobs hanging 
above and jump to grab the two red coins (15) below them. Go right and ride 
the next set of rotating platforms, jumping to collect the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Next, go right and down the steps to reach the Middle Ring. Pass through it 
and jump to the right ledge, then shoot the winged cloud to make more steps 
appear. Hit the egg block to refill your supply, then go up the steps and 
switch to Baby Peach if you don't already have her. Fly upward in the wind 
gust to the right of the egg block, and land on the ledges above. Shoot the 
winged cloud and grab the Key that falls, then go right and drop to the lower 
ledge. Jump to the left to reveal a hidden winged cloud; shoot it to get five 
stars.

Head right and shoot eggs up at the coins on both sides of the rotating 
spiked columns to receive four red coins (19). Continue to the right and you 
will see an arrow pointing upward on the wall. Stand directly below it and 
shoot an egg upward at the winged cloud to get an extra life. Then, drop down 
the ledges to the lower area and make eggs out of the Shy Guys to the right. 
Jump above the pipe to get the final red coin as well (20). Go down the pipe 
and collect the fourth Flower at the bottom of the room, then exit.

Flower 5
--------

Head to the left and shoot the giant lava monster with an egg to make it 
retreat temporarily. Look above the first platform and shoot the winged cloud 
to reveal the fifth Flower; launch another egg at it to collect it.

Boss Battle
-----------

After you grab the final flower above, jump across the platforms to the left. 
Before you unlock the top door, enter the open room on the lower ledge (make 
sure you have Baby Peach; if not, go up the steps to the left and use the 
Stork Stop). In there, you will see four wall chunks above you being held up 
by brown blocks. Begin by shooting the first block from the left, and jump 
onto the block that falls. From what's left, shoot the middle block and jump 
to it. Once you're on the taller wall piece, shoot down the remaining two, 
then jump from them to reach the Character Coin in the upper-right corner as 
Baby Peach.

After you receive the coin, exit this room. Now, jump through the steps and 
unlock the door above you. In that room, go right and make eggs out of all 
the swinging blob enemies above. Shoot the winged cloud in the middle area to 
get five stars if you need them. Continue to the right and jump through the 
Middle Ring. Also, it would be a good idea to switch to Baby Mario for the 
battle ahead. When you're ready, open the red door and meet Gilbert the 
Gooey.

The giant boss has a lot of smaller blobs hanging from its body, which you 
can eat and make eggs from. Stick to the small platforms on either side of 
the room and eat the smaller blobs as the giant boss moves up and down 
several times. It will then swing back and forth; you can avoid this by 
staying on the higher platforms on the sides. When the giant boss retreats to 
the ceiling, it will be safe for you to switch sides to eat more blobs when 
it comes back down. You can also shoot eggs at the blobs to knock them off. 
The battle ends when you clear all the smaller blobs from the larger body.


=======================================
Secret Stage 1: Welcome to Yoshi Tower!
=======================================

Flower 1
--------

In this tall tower, you will have to be quick since the lava will be steadily 
rising below, and if you're not quick enough, you will die. Also, please note 
that there are no Middle Rings, so the only way for you to obtain stars is to 
shoot down winged clouds and collect as many as you can. Make your way back 
and forth, jumping to the upper ledges when possible. After you pass the 
Stork Stop, switch to Baby Peach, then hop across the ledges to the left. If 
you want, shoot the left winged cloud to get five stars. Hit the checkered 
block and ride that platform upward, then go right. Ground pound through the 
dirt and collect two red coins (2), then go right and flutter to grab the 
first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Go back left and jump to the upper ledge, then continue upward. On the next 
platform, you will have to deal with a thief running around. Lure him to the 
right, then jump to the upper ledge. Grab the two red coins (4) and head left 
to the green Flip Block. Hit it, then jump on the thief three times to defeat 
it. Jump onto the first green platform and hit the red Flip Block, then jump 
to the red platform and hit the green Flip Block. Jump to the right green 
platform and hit the red Flip Block, then jump to the upper thin ledge.

From here, hop your way up the right ledges to the upper platform. Ride the 
red platform upward, quickly jumping to the purple platform before you hit 
the spikes. When you reach it, jump to the middle green platform and 
continue. Jump into an opening in the left wall and fly in the wind gust to 
collect two red coins (6) and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Land on the high ledges on either side of the enclosure, then jump to the 
platform above. Make your way upward by jumping on the Bullet Bill cannons, 
making eggs out of the Bullet Bills that are shot out. To the left, there is 
an opening in the wall where you can shoot an egg to get two red coins (8). 
At the top of the area, you can jump to collect two more red coins (10) 
before the cannon to the left shoots a Bullet Bill unexpectedly. Head to the 
right and bounce on a Bullet Bill to flutter high enough to reach the ledge 
above.

Up here, look above to see a rubber ball hanging from a balloon. Shoot an egg 
to knock it down, then bounce to the upper platform while avoiding the fire 
pillars. On the high platform, go left and jump to grab the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Back in the middle area, head upward by jumping on the timer platforms. The 
single platforms on the sides each have two red coins above them, four total 
(14). Further up, the path will split to the left and right. If you take the 
right path, you will have to deal with Spear Guys and piranha plants. At the 
top of the right path, you can shoot an egg into a narrow alcove to the right 
and collect two more red coins (16). The left path has walking spiky enemies 
and piranha plants. Make your way above this part, then make eggs out of the 
Shy Guys that hop out of the pipe.

Shoot eggs through the spikes on either side of the enclosure to break open a 
hole. Pass through and jump to the upper ledge, then go right. Hop onto the 
pipes above and go left, jumping to avoid the fake flower that will drop from 
above. Jump over the gap, then collect the fourth Flower overhead.

Flower 5
--------

Make your way left to the highest pipe, then jump and flutter to the high 
ledge to the right, grabbing a red coin in the air (17). Above you, eat the 
bird head enemies, then hop your way upward on tiny ledges. Avoid the spiked 
pillar in the middle as you jump towards the right side of the room. There 
are two red coins (19) on the right side. At the top, shoot the winged clouds 
in the upper corners to get stars. Then, jump from a flying bird's back to 
reach the ledge above.

Shoot the winged cloud above (if you need an egg, there is one to the left 
you can take) and a red switch will fall. Hit it and stairs will appear, so 
head up them to reach a series of yellow platforms. Hop onto them and eat the 
Snifit on the right ledge, then jump to collect the last Flower above it.

Goal Ring
---------

Jump onto the next set of yellow platforms and eat the Snifit there as well. 
Then, jump to the right ledge and go through the door to exit. Outside, shoot 
the Shy Guy that swoops down carrying the final red coin to take it (20). 
Then, jump through the Goal Ring to complete this stage.


===============================================
Extra Stage 1: Return of the Moving Chomp Rock!
===============================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go left and roll the Chomp Rock to the left, killing the Shy 
Guys and piranha plants along the way. Be careful of the larger plants which 
shoot spiked balls in the air to attack. When you reach the first stake, 
pound it down and continue moving the rock to the left. As a note, if you 
need to push it to the left but can't fit on the rock's right side, you can 
stand atop the Chomp Rock on the left or right side to make it start moving 
again.

Roll the rock off the ledge to the left and then to the right on the lower 
path. When you end up getting blocked by two stakes, pound them both down and 
continue rolling the Chomp Rock onward. When it drops again, push it to the 
left to defeat all the spiked enemies. After the rock drops to the next tier 
below, you can either push it to the left or right. Walk to the right without 
pushing the rock, and shoot eggs at the piranha plants to defeat them. 
Collect a red coin among the bunch to the right (1), then pound the stakes to 
get another one (2).

Now, go back to the Chomp Rock and roll it to the left. Roll it up the hill, 
defeating the enemies along the way. At the top, pound the stake and drop to 
the lower ledge where the cannon is shooting Bullet Bills. Make eggs out of 
the bullets, then flutter to grab three red coins (5) to the right of the 
cannon. Shoot the winged cloud above to build the rest of the platform above, 
allowing you to push the rock onward.

Push it to the left and up the hill, then jump from the rock to the ledges 
above. Shoot an egg at one spiked enemy to knock it back, killing the others. 
Be sure to jump and collect two red coins (7) above the enemies here. When 
you're done, drop off the platform to the right and continue pushing the rock 
to the left. After the rock drops off this path, it will be hit back and 
forth by the batter enemies. Defeat the enemies to stop this, starting with 
the one on the left, then leave the rock alone.

Go right and drop down the pit, then flutter onto the lower ledge to the 
left. Collect the coins and defeat the pitcher enemies (ground pound them), 
and refill your egg supply via the flower in the center of the room. Do a 
ground pound to clear the leaves off the giant flower on the ledge, then jump 
to grab the red coin (8) behind it. Avoid the fake flower to the left when it 
drops off to roll at you. There is a hidden winged cloud in the left alcove, 
which you can shoot to get five stars.

After this, jump up the ledges to the left and continue pushing the rock to 
the left (you may have to go back to the right and retrieve the rock). Push 
the rock all the way to the left until it falls to the area below. Roll the 
Chomp Rock to the left so you can jump onto the small ledge above it. Avoid 
the piranha plant that will drop from the ceiling, and collect the first 
Flower in the left alcove.

Flower 2
--------

Get back down to the rock when it's safe (shoot an egg to trigger the plant 
if you need to), and push it to the left some more. When you reach the stake, 
pound it down, but leave the rock at the edge for now. Head to the left and 
flutter in the air as the hill takes a steep turn, then jump from the 
Paratroopa to the ledge where the Stork Stop is. Switch to Baby DK, then go 
back up the hill to the right. Hit the red switch, then quickly jump onto the 
red ledge and push the rock to the left. Push it as far as you can, but when 
the timer starts to run out, jump onto it and flutter to the rope swinging 
above.

Hang from the rope and swing to the left, jumping onto the left ledge. Ground 
pound the stakes, then dash through the opening to avoid the fake flower 
trap. Jump to collect the real Flower above you.

Flower 3
--------

After you have the flower, go back right and jump to the rope again. Swing to 
the right and jump/flutter to grab two red coins (10). Now, go down the hill 
to the left and jump over the gap to the ledge where the door is. Shoot eggs 
above the gap and you will reveal a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it again to 
make a flower appear. Shoot another egg or use one of the nearby Koopa 
Troopas to collect it.

Flower 4
--------

After you grab this tricky flower, go through the door into the next room. In 
there, go right and jump to the upper path, and follow it to the Middle Ring 
checkpoint. Then, push the new Chomp Rock to the left until it drops to the 
lower area. Push the rock to the right until it drops again, then run up the 
hill and pound the stake at the top. Now, push the rock up the hill while 
avoiding the rotating fire pole.

Continue pushing the rock up the hill until it's directly below the red 
switch on a ledge above. Then, use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Mario. 
Jump from the rock to the red switch and hit it, then push the rock all the 
way to the right along the red platforms. When you reach the safe grassy 
ledge, leave the rock here and jump to the red switch above. Now, quickly go 
left and drop down to the lower red ledges. At the bottom, go right and 
flutter to obtain two red coins (12), then go left and flutter to reach the 
next Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you grab the flower, quickly run to the right and return to where you 
left the Chomp Rock before the switch deactivates. Now, jump from the rock to 
hit the switch again, and push the rock all the way to the right. When you 
reach the edge of the next platform, jump from the rock to reach the red 
switch on a high ledge to the right. Activate the switch, then pound the tall 
stake on the left side three times so it's level to the red path. When the 
switch deactivates, hit it again and roll the rock onto the first stake.

With the rock resting atop the first lowered stake, repeat the same process 
with the right stake. With both stakes leveled, hit the switch again and push 
the rock all the way to the right. Roll the rock so that it drops into a 
small ditch, pressing a floor switch which will cover up the spike pits ahead 
for you. Before you continue, go back to the left and flutter to each stake, 
then pound them down to get two red coins (14). Now, head to the right and 
jump across several red platforms while avoiding the enemies in the air. From 
the top platform, jump to a ledge where you will find the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

For this next part, flutter onto the Chomp Rock on the spikes. Move the rock 
to the right by moving slowly to the left while standing on the right side of 
it. Roll your way to the right across two spike pits, jumping to avoid the 
spiked balls being shot at you from piranha plants on the ceiling. As you 
roll over the second spike pit, collect two red coins (16) by jumping to grab 
the coins. At the right end, jump onto the higher red ledge, then onto the 
ledge above it. Grab a red coin here (17), then shoot an egg to the line of 
coins to the left so you can collect one more red coin (18).

Now, flutter to the right along the line of coins pointing downward, and you 
will collect the last two red coins (20). Flutter your way to the final 
platform, then go right and hop through the Goal Ring to end this tough 
stage.


====================================
World 2-1: Baby DK, the Jungle King!
====================================

Flower 1
--------

You will start off this new world with Baby DK in tow. His abilities will 
allow you to climb on vines and swing from ropes. You will also be able to 
use a powerful dash attack to break through walls and clear enemies (press 
Down + Y). Anyway, from the start, go right and jump onto the vines. Climb up 
them and head to the right, collecting the first three red coins (3) along 
the way. Make eggs out of the other monkeys climbing around as well. Drop 
down to the lower area and go right to the hint box, then aim an egg directly 
upward to reach the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Continue to the right and jump towards the swinging rope. You'll 
automatically grab onto it; you can let go by pressing B. Swing to the right, 
jumping to the next ledge. Repeat this for the second rope, and you will come 
to some more vines. Shoot eggs at the piranha plants and collect a bunch of 
coins, including two red coins (5). At the top, go right and defeat another 
piranha plant.

Make eggs out of the green spiked balls floating above, and grab the Key when 
you see it. Go left and climb the single vine to the ceiling, then climb left 
along the ceiling to reach a bunch of coins and a locked door. Unlock the 
door and you can play a target shooting game to gain extra lives. After that, 
climb back to the right along the ceiling vines. Go all the way to the right 
while ceiling, grabbing two red coins (7) along the way. At the end, climb 
the long vine to reach the next area above.

In the next area, go through the Middle Ring and jump to the rope. To gain 
momentum, you will have to hold Left/Right when the swinging slows down (for 
example, when you swing to the right, just before you stop swinging, hold 
Left to gain momentum so you can swing faster in the other direction). Do 
this to grab a bunch of coins and the second Flower on the right side.

Flower 3
--------

After gaining enough momentum, swing to the right side and jump to the vine 
hanging from the ceiling. Climb up it to find three red coins (10). Drop to 
the ground and continue right, jumping from the rope ahead to a ledge with an 
arrow sign on it. Hop to the second ledge to the right, then grab onto the 
vines. Climb to the right and shoot an egg through the walls surrounding the 
third Flower below and to the right of you.

Flower 4
--------

Now that you have the next flower, climb upward along the vines. When you hit 
the ceiling, climb along it to the left. Hit the egg block to replenish your 
egg supply, then climb to the ledge above. Aim upward and shoot through the 
soft walls to retrieve the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Head to the right and shoot the piranha plant on the ceiling. Jump to collect 
all the coins, including two red coins (12), then go right and drop to the 
lower ledge. Fall to the ground below and follow the arrows pointing to the 
right, and you will reach the next area. Over there, use your dash (Down + Y) 
to clear the barrier enemies, then jump to the first rope swinging back and 
forth. As you swing to the left, jump to grab the vine hanging above you. 
Jump and flutter in midair to grab two red coins (14).

If you have access to Baby Peach, get back onto the vine and climb to the 
right along the ceiling, then use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Peach. Fly 
upward with the wind gust and run all the way to the left to receive the 
Character Coin. You won't be able to do this on your first time through this 
level, but you can come back later and take care of it.

Drop to the first rope again and swing to the right, then jump to the second 
rope. Swing to the right and jump onto a new platform. Collect three red 
coins (17) on the platform, then go right and start swinging from the longer 
rope. As you gain momentum and swing back and forth, climb up the rope a 
little bit so you can grab the final three red coins (20) as you swing. Hang 
from the bottom of the rope and swing to the right so you can grab the final 
Flower, too.

Goal Ring
---------

After you grab the final flower, jump to the right platform. Then, simply run 
to the right and jump into the Goal Ring to clear this stage.


================================
World 2-2: Underground Mysteries
================================

Flower 1
--------

Start off this level by going down the pipe in front of you. When you land in 
the cave below, jump to avoid the rolling Chomp Rock, then jump onto the 
right platform to grab the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Go down the hill to the bottom, then use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK 
if you don't already have him. Head to the right and climb up the vines, then 
dash through the wall to the left. Continue to the left and dash through the 
walls and enemies, and jump to obtain a red coin (1). Go right and jump to 
the upper ledge, then dash your way through to the far right. Ground pound 
through the dirt below, grabbing another red coin (2) on the way. When you 
land, go left and shoot the winged cloud above you to receive five stars.

Ground pound through the floor below you, taking another red coin (3), then 
go right into the next room. In there, go right and dash through the dirt 
between platforms, while avoiding the piranha plants below. At the far right, 
ground pound to an area far below, and morph into the Mole Tank. Make your 
way upward through the maze, following all the passages to the various coin 
deposits. There are five red coins (8) to be found here. At the top, hit the 
Yoshi block to revert back to normal. Then, go into the room to the right.

In here, go right and jump to the ledge in the air. Jump onto the platform 
where the locked door is and pound the stake to get another red coin (9). 
Drop down to the lower-right ledge and pound the stakes to reveal a hidden 
winged cloud. Shoot it with an egg to get the Key, then go back to the locked 
door and enter the room to play a mini-game for extra lives. After you're 
done, drop down to the bottom of the room and walk through the Middle Ring 
checkpoint.

Next, go right and jump to the ledges above, and use the Stork Stop to switch 
to Baby Peach. With her, jump to the upper ledge and use the flower's wind 
gust to fly all the way upward, grabbing two red coins (11) at the peak. Land 
on the ledge to the left and go up the hill, then shoot eggs through the gray 
dirt block to the left. You will reveal a hidden winged cloud; shoot it again 
to find the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Head to the right and jump to the Stork Stop platform. Switch to Baby DK, 
then go right and jump to the right platform. Shoot the winged cloud to make 
the rest of the bridge appear, then go left and drop down to a lower ledge on 
the right side. Jump onto the rope that's hanging on the track, and you will 
slide down the path. At the end, jump onto the vine and climb down to collect 
the Character Coin. Climb up to the ceiling and move to the right, where you 
will find the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From where you found the flower, climb up the vine and jump to the ledge 
above. Head up the stairs to the left and return to the Stork Stop. Switch to 
Baby Mario, then go all the way right and ride the green platform downward. 
At the bottom, go right and hit the upper line of M blocks. The rightmost 
block will reveal a seed, which will grow into a tall sunflower. Jump up its 
leaves to the high ledge. There, push the wooden box to the right and jump 
from it to reach the top platform. Grab two red coins (13) among the bunch, 
as well as the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Now, drop to the ledge directly below and ground pound the box to receive 
five stars. Go left and drop to the lower area, and continue heading right 
along the path. When you reach the soft dirt portion with four coins in the 
middle, ground pound through the middle to reveal another hidden winged 
cloud. Shoot it with an egg to get five more stars. After that, go right to 
the end and jump through the pipe in the ceiling to exit.

Back outside, ride the rotating platforms while avoiding the seedlings which 
will grow into small plant enemies if they hit the ground. Shoot the winged 
cloud to the right to get some more stars, then jump to the upper ledge. Look 
on the top screen and you will see a Shy Guy flying high above with a red 
coin in tow. Shoot it with an egg to get the red coin (14). Continue to the 
right and you will see Shy Guys on stilts walking along several rows of 
platforms. Defeat them, then pound the stake and go right to collect four red 
coins (18).

Shoot an egg through the dirt to the right and collect the Key, then head 
back to the left and unlock the door to play a mini-game for a chance at an 
extra life. After that, go right past the Shy Guys on stilts and shoot the 
winged cloud overhead to get more stars. Up ahead, you will see a Shy Guy 
swoop down with a red coin; shoot it to get the coin (19). Farther to the 
right, use a ground pound to break a cracked block, then pound the stake to 
collect the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

From where the get the last flower, go right and collect two coins, one of 
which is the final red coin (20). Now, jump to the upper ledge and head right 
to the Goal Ring to exit the stage.


===============================
World 2-3: Windblown Wilderness
===============================

Flower 1
--------

When you start this stage, you will see platforms with numbers on them. The 
number signifies how many times you can jump onto said platform until it 
disappears (the timer decrements when you jump off the platform, not while 
you stand on it). Go right and follow the long path of 1-step platforms, then 
jump to the ledge with the Stork Stop. Switch to Baby Peach, then fly upward 
with the wind gust to the ledge above.

If you need eggs, go down the pipe to the right and defeat the Shy Guys at 
the bottom. Then, jump to the right across several 2-step platforms. When you 
reach the far right, stand there and shoot the winged cloud above twice to 
receive the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the flower, stay against the right wall and drop into the pit 
below. Towards the bottom, you will find four coins, two of them being red 
coins (2). As soon as you grab them, start to flutter upward (with Baby 
Peach, you will be able to fly in the breeze with no problem). When you reach 
the ledge above, jump up the platforms to the top, then head right into the 
next area.

There, go through the Middle Ring to set the checkpoint, then continue all 
the way right to the Stork Stop. Jump and flutter across the next series of 
2-step platforms to reach the safe platform above (the one with arrows 
pointing to the right). For now, disregard the arrows and continue making 
your way upward by jumping from platform to platform, or flying with the wind 
gusts. As you fly upward in the third wind gust, you will grab two red coins 
(4) and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Land on the ledge above where the flower was, and jump up the steps to the 
left. Make eggs out of the Shy Guys, then aim directly upward and shoot the 
high winged cloud to make a red switch fall. Hit it, then fly through the two 
diagonally-blowing wind gusts to retrieve Baby Peach's Character Coin above. 
Once you have that, drop to the platform below and follow the arrows into the 
right area.

In the next area, go right and jump through the Middle Ring, then pass 
through the bumpers. Go right and jump your way upward along the 1-step 
platforms. At the top, follow the line of platforms to the right, collecting 
three red coins (7) and the third Flower at the end.

Flower 4
--------

Drop to the platform directly below where you grabbed the flower. Flutter to 
the right to avoid the enemy below, then follow the arrows into the right 
area. Go right and hop your way upward along the regular platforms. When you 
reach the red switch, go right and you will see two flowers blowing wind 
upward. Float in the rightmost wind gust and you will be able to reach the 
fourth Flower in an alcove above.

Flower 5
--------

Land on the ground below and fly upward with the wind gusts of the left 
flower. When you land on the higher ledge, continue upward with the next 
gust, following the coin line to collect four red coins (11). When you land 
above, hit the egg block to the left and replenish your supply. Then, jump 
onto the donut platforms and collect three more red coins (14). Avoid the 
bomb hanging from a balloon above, and shoot eggs at the wooden box floating 
around. Three eggs will knock the box down, which you can ground pound to 
grab five stars if needed. When you're ready, go into the right area.

There, go right and fly upward in the first wind gust along the coin line. 
Make your way upward through this area, collecting all the coin lines to 
obtain six red coins (20), as well as the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

At the top of this area, you will see a ledge with a cloud floating above it. 
You can ride this cloud by jumping on it, so ride it to the right with the 
wind. The Goal Ring will be right in front of you at this point.


===============================================
World 2-4: Hector the Reflector's Haunted House
===============================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, follow the path of coins to the right, making eggs out of the 
ghost Shy Guys along the way. When you see the first arrow on the wall 
pointing upward, jump to obtain the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Continuing onward, collect the coins that are along the entire path. One of 
them is a red coin (1). Avoid the ghost piranha plant that flies back and 
forth ahead, and shoot the winged cloud to make a bridge appear. Go across 
it, jumping to collect the coins when it's safe, and you will find three red 
coins (4) in the mix. Go up the stairs to the right, and drop down at the top 
of the path. Shoot eggs at the brown blocks to the left to break them, then 
collect three red coins (7) and the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Once you have the second flower, go through the door to the right. In the 
next room, jump through the Middle Ring to set a checkpoint. In here, you 
will see round rotating platforms with arrows on them, which when you jump on 
them will move in the direction the arrow is facing. Before you jump onto 
this one, look up and shoot the upper-right winged cloud to get five stars. 
Now, follow the coin path as you ride the platform upward (to change 
direction, simply flutter above it so that the platform can rotate a bit).

Along the way to the top, you will be able to grab six red coins (13). Also, 
make your way over to the upper-left area, where the third Flower is.

Flower 4
--------

With the rotating platform, ride it directly upward through the opening. At 
the top, jump onto the left ledge and use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby 
DK. Enter the room to the left and climb the chain to the upper ledge, then 
dash through the block and collect the Character Coin. Now, climb back down 
the chain and return to the previous room. Back there, go right and drop to 
the very bottom of the room, then go into the pipe to the right.

In here, go right and make eggs out of the floating chairs and flower vases 
that try to attack you. There are a couple of openings in the ceiling with 
winged clouds at the top of them (look at the top screen). The first alcove's 
cloud contains five stars, and the second one contains the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, go right and shoot an egg at the winged cloud in 
the third tall alcove to receive the Key. Now, go back through the pipe to 
exit this room. Ride the rotating platform to the upper-right area, following 
the arrows on the wall. Jump onto the upper-right ledge and go up the stairs, 
stopping in the right alcove to reveal a hidden winged cloud containing five 
more stars. Then, go to the top of the stairs and unlock the door to reach a  
new area.

In the new room, go through the Middle Ring, then look up at the Arrow Cloud. 
Shoot an egg at it, and it will be launched through the passages, collecting 
two red coins (15), as well as knocking the ghost Shy Guy into a winged 
cloud, netting you an extra life. After that, go right onto a bunch of green 
platforms, which will rise up when you step onto them. Jump to collect four 
red coins (19) in the air, then go right and shoot eggs at the ghost piranha 
plants to defeat them. Go right and ride the platforms upward, then defeat a 
couple more piranha plants as you make your way to the left.

When you reach the pipe that spawns ghost Shy Guys, make eggs out of them. 
Then, stand to the right of the pipe and shoot an egg directly upward to 
collect the line of coins, as well as the final red coin (20). Now, use the 
Stork Stop and switch to Baby Mario, then go onto the thin platform above the 
lava to the left. Shoot an egg at the left wall at an angle so that it hits 
the Arrow Cloud behind the other wall. This will send the egg around, hitting 
the winged cloud above you, which will form stairs leading upward. Go up the 
stairs and defeat the ghost piranha plants, then shoot an egg at the final 
Flower above.

Boss Battle
-----------

Once you have the last flower, go through the door to the left. In the room 
you arrive in, go right and hop up some ledges while avoiding/eating the 
flying chairs and vases. Go left and up, then all the way to the right 
through the chaos. When everything stops moving, jump through the final 
Middle Ring and head through the red door to meet Hector the Reflector.

This battle is unique since the bottom screen will act as a mirror, while the 
actual battle takes place on the top screen. This is useful since when the 
boss disappears, you will be able to see where it is by looking at the mirror 
on the bottom screen. As for the actual fight, Hector the Reflector will 
vanish on the top screen before moving towards you. Watch the mirror and 
avoid him, then shoot an egg at his location to cause damage.

Each time you hit Hector, he will crack one of the corners of the bottom 
mirror. After you attack, a chair or table will drop into the room and will 
fly towards you; make an egg out of those items. After five hits, all four 
corners, as well as the center of the mirror, will be broken, making it 
somewhat more difficult to track the boss. At this point, it will only take 
one more egg shot to beat it.


=================
World 2-5: Boing!
=================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go right and hit the egg block to refill your supply. Defeat 
the flower enemies and head right to a pink ball on the floor you can bounce 
on. Jump on it to collect the coins in the air; among them are two red coins 
(2). Also, be sure to shoot an egg upward to hit the first Flower above.

Flower 2
--------

Go right and you will see some rotating platforms. Before you ride them, drop 
to the platform below and pound the stake to get a red coin (3). Then, jump 
back to the left ledge and hop across the rotating platforms. Go right until 
you reach the yellow platforms; jump on them, then quickly jump to collect 
the coins above them to find another red coin (4). Drop to the ground below 
these platforms and shoot the winged cloud to receive five stars.

Make eggs out of the Shy Guys, then go right past the pink balls. Collect the 
coins in the corner, one of them hiding a red coin (5). Then, bounce your way 
upward to the higher ledge. Up there, shoot the winged cloud to cause the 
flower to start blowing wind. Use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Peach, 
then fly in the wind to the upper area. On the high platform, go right and 
through a pipe to a new room.

When you emerge, go right and do a ground pound to knock the leaves off the 
flower enemy on the perch above. Then, shoot eggs at the leftmost winged 
cloud above to retrieve the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Shoot the rightmost winged cloud above to receive five stars, then make your 
way downward. Pound the stake to find a red coin (6), then collect the coins 
in the bottom-right corner to get another one (7). Now, go back up and 
through the pipe to exit the room. Go left and drop off the ledge, then 
flutter to the right ledge. This time, follow the arrow signs leading into 
the right area.

There, go right and you will see a bull trying to charge in your direction. 
When it hits the stake, drop onto the platform behind it and run to the 
right, collecting the coins, one of which is a red coin (8). The bull will 
charge after you, so jump to the platform above and the bull will fall into 
the pit. Head back to the left and pound the stake to get a red coin (9), 
then jump to the upper ledge and continue right.

Hop up a couple of smaller ledges above, then ground pound to knock the 
leaves off the flower. Jump to the right and avoid the falling bomb, and jump 
to collect the Key floating above. Shoot an egg at the brown block in the 
upper-right corner of the ceiling to make a Stork Stop appear. Switch to Baby 
Mario, then head left and drop to the lower area, where M blocks have 
appeared. Go right along the new path to reach the Character Coin.

Now, go left and jump up the ledges to reach the upper area. Then, go up the 
hill to the left, making eggs out of the Shy Guys on the way. At the top, 
unlock the door and play a mini-game in that room. Once that is done, jump up 
the ledges to the right of the door and pound the stake at the top. Jump onto 
the yellow platforms to avoid the bull on the ground, then make your way to 
the right past the stakes and Shy Guys. When you reach the third stake, pound 
it down when the bull isn't about to hit it, and you will receive a red coin 
(10). From here, go right into the next area.

In the new area, go through the Middle Ring and pound the stake to get 
another red coin (11). Jump to the right ledge and use the Stork Stop to 
switch to Baby Peach. Continue going right while avoiding the bull, and you 
will see a tall stake with the flower above it. Use the bouncy ball below to 
fly onto the stake, where you can grab the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Avoid the falling bombs and pound the stake all the way down. When you reveal 
the hidden winged cloud, shoot it and a red switch will appear. Hit it and 
fly upward with the timed wind gust, and land on the upper-left ledge. Avoid 
the thief enemy, jumping to avoid it, and go up the pipe to the left. In this 
windy room, jump onto the green platform which will start speeding to the 
right. Hop over the wall shortly after the ride begins, and continue all the 
way to the right. When you come up to the platform at the end, jump onto it 
to receive the fourth Flower. Then, drop through the bumpers and go down the 
pipe to exit.

Flower 5
--------

When you land, go right and flutter over the tall stake. When you reach the 
yellow rotating platforms, drop to the ground below and head right to collect 
a red coin (12). Avoid the thief and hop back up the yellow platforms to 
reach the higher ledge. Continue to the right, pounding the ground to clear 
the flower enemy ahead. Hop across the gap and bounce your way to the upper 
area. There, look up and shoot the winged cloud to get five stars.

From here, go right and you will see the bull and the thief again. Lure them 
to the left, then drop to the ground to the right of them. Collect the three 
red coins (15), then hop over the stake and enter the right area. In the new 
area, go right and switch to Baby Peach at the Stork Stop if you don't 
already have her. Before you start bouncing, jump over the first ball and 
drop into an alcove below. Shoot the winged cloud to get the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Now that you have the last flower, make your way upward by flying in the wind 
and using the bouncy pads on the walls. Be sure to collect all the coins on 
the way up as well; towards the top, you will find the last five red coins 
(20). Once you reach the top, flutter to the right ledge and jump through the 
Goal Ring to end this level.


==========================
World 2-6: Donuts and Eggs
==========================

Flower 1
--------

When you start, the stage will be scrolling to the right, so you will have to 
be quick to get everything here. From the start, go right until you reach the 
rotating platforms. Ride them around to get two red coins (2). Go across the 
long donut platform, then jump to the lower donut platform to the right. 
Collect the regular coins and the red coin (3) in the corner, then jump to 
the upper ledges as the screen scrolls upward. Above you is a Shy Guy holding 
a red coin. If you don't have eggs, get some from the egg block and shoot 
down the coin (4).

To the right, there will be some green rotating platforms on a track. Hop on 
the rightmost ones to roll down the track, collecting two red coins (6) along 
the way. Jump onto the donut platform when you come to it, then onto the 
right ledge. Shoot the piranha plant with an egg and quickly wander into its 
alcove to reveal a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it to get five stars. As the 
screen scrolls upward, make your way up the ledges while following the 
arrows. When you reach the piranha plant on the ceiling, shoot it with an 
egg, then launch another one to grab the Flower next to it.

Flower 2
--------

Jump onto the upper-right ledges as the screen continues scrolling upward. 
The screen will move slightly to the left, revealing a winged cloud. Shoot it 
to get the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

When they come into view, jump onto the three donut platforms above. Jump 
onto the regular platform above them, then shoot eggs upward at the third 
Flower, as well as three red coins (9) surrounding it.

Flower 4
--------

Follow the path leading to the left as the screen moves, and jump through the 
Middle Ring. Up ahead, you will see a Shy Guy in the air holding a red coin; 
shoot an egg at it to get the coin (10). As the screen scrolls downward and 
to the left, hit the egg block to refill your supply. Jump onto the hanging 
green platform and shoot eggs at the wheel on the track to move along it. At 
the end of the track, jump onto the next ledge and hit the egg block some 
more.

Hop onto the next hanging platform, but don't go too quickly up the track. 
Wait for the screen to scroll a bit to the left, and you will see a flower 
below the track. Move along the track little by little, then when you see the 
flower appear onscreen, shoot an egg to get the fourth Flower before it 
becomes out of range.

Flower 5
--------

Once you have the fourth flower, shoot the wheel to ride the track to the 
end, then jump onto the left ledge. Use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby 
Mario, then hit the M blocks to get a yellow egg. Shoot an egg at the piranha 
plant to the left, and recover the Character Coin behind it. Now, head upward 
along the donut platforms and ride the rotating platforms around to collect 
coins, including four red coins (14).

Hit the M block ahead to get a red egg, then when you see the flower enemy, 
defeat it and jump into its alcove to reveal a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it 
to get five stars. Up ahead, jump onto the green platform on the track and 
aim an egg directly upward. Throw it to collect all the coins, including four 
more red coins (18). Further along, hit the egg block to get more eggs again, 
then jump onto the rotating platforms. Look to the right to find the last 
flower; shoot an egg to collect it.

Goal Ring
---------

Jump from the rotating platforms onto the upper-right ledge, and hit the M 
blocks there. To the right, jump onto some donut blocks and then onto a 
series of moving platforms. When you reach the purple platform that moves up 
and down, shoot an egg directly above it to get a red coin (19). Then, 
quickly jump onto the red platform moving left and right, and shoot an egg to 
the left to get the final red coin (20). With that done, jump onto the final 
platform and through the Goal Ring to complete the stage.


==========================
World 2-7: Yoshi on Stilts
==========================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, first go left and use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. 
Then, head right until you see a brown block hanging from the ceiling. Throw 
an egg at it to cause the wall above to collapse, revealing a vine. Hit the 
egg block to replenish your supply, but before you climb up there, make your 
way to the far right area on the ground level. When you come to a waterfall, 
wait until the water stops falling before quickly passing by. Also, try not 
to stay in the water for too long, since a fish will try and eat you whole. 
At the far right end, just past the final waterfall, jump to the vines and 
then across the waterfall when it stops to collect two red coins (2).

Once you have the coins, head back to the far left where the egg block is. 
Now, jump to the vine above and climb to the next one. When the water stops 
falling, flutter to the rope and swing to the right on it. Jump to the vine, 
and then to another rope when it's safe. Swing on the second rope until the 
right waterfall stops, then jump and flutter to collect the first Flower. 
After you grab it, land on the ledge to the right and enter that room.

Flower 2
--------

In the cavernous room, go right and drop to the area below. Bounce your way 
to the upper area and head right. You will see a winged cloud and a fan 
flower in the ground below you. Throw an egg at the ground next to the winged 
cloud; the explosion caused by the eggs with Baby DK will hit the cloud, 
which will start the wind gusts up. Go back left and down, and use the Stork 
Stop to switch to Baby Peach. Then, toss an egg at the block to the right and 
collect the second Flower there.

Flower 3
--------

To the left of the ball is another block you can destroy with an egg. Enter 
that small alcove and jump to reveal a winged cloud; shoot it to get a Key. 
Next, bounce on the ball to reach the high ledge, and head right. Flutter in 
the wind to reach the higher ledge, and unlock the door up there. In the room 
you appear in, hop across the donut platforms to the right. Fly in the wind 
gust at the far right to reach the top area, then go left. Jump to collect 
the coins, including two red coins (4), then stand on the donut platforms to 
reach the Character Coin under them. Once you have it, exit the room.

Back out here, go left and down, then head to the right. Drop down to the 
lower area and jump through the Middle Ring, then use eggs to defeat the Shy 
Guys on stilts to the left. Jump to the right ledge and follow the path 
upward to another Stork Stop. Switch to Baby Mario, then switch the view so 
that you control the bottom screen; that way you can keep an eye on what's 
above you. Head to the right, jumping to collect all the coins along the way. 
There are four red coins to be had (8), as well as the Flower; just be 
careful of the piranha plants that will swoop down to eat you!

Flower 4
--------

Once you collect everything you wanted to, hop up the ledges to the right 
while avoiding the last hanging plant. Then, go through the bumpers and head 
into the next area to the right. In here, defeat the Shy Guys on stilts by 
jumping on them or using eggs. Head all the way to the right and use the 
Stork Stop to switch back to Baby DK, then go left to where the first 
swinging rope is. Look above it to see a Key floating on a balloon; shoot it 
with an egg to catch the Key.

Now, swing to the right by jumping from rope to rope. When you reach the 
platform with the egg block, hit it to get more eggs, then look upward. Shoot 
the winged cloud to lower another rope, then hang from it and swing back and 
forth to build momentum. When you swing as far left as you can, jump to grab 
the coins and climb onto the vine above. Climb up the vine to the ceiling, 
then move along the ceiling to grab two red coins (10). Drop to the ledge 
below to get the Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, feel free to use the Key to enter the locked room. 
Inside, you can play a target shooting game to get a couple extra lives. When 
you are done in here, drop down the pit to the lower area. Then, go right and 
swing from the ropes to reach the egg block again. When you get to that 
platform, wait for the Shy Guy on stilts to walk to the right, then throw an 
egg to destroy it. Now, flutter to the upper ledge on the right side. Follow 
the path right and down to collect five red coins (15).

When you land below, use the Middle Ring to the left before going down the 
pipe to the right. In the dimly-lit room you arrive in, hop onto the stilts 
to the right and start walking across the lava. If you want, you can jump to 
collect coins along the way. Ignore the piranha plant on the ceiling, but 
make sure you jump to collect the coins to the right of it; both of them are 
red coins (17). Jump off the stilts at the end, and bounce to the upper area, 
where you will find even taller stilts to use.

Continue walking to the right using the tall stilts, jumping to collect coins 
and eggs along the way. When you reach the next piranha plant, you will have 
to clear it. To do this, quickly jump straight up and toss an egg at it. If 
you did it quickly enough, you will hit the plant, defeating it. Continue to 
the right and jump on the Shy Guy to knock him away. One of the coins above 
you is a red coin (18), so be sure to grab it. At the end, go up the pipe to 
exit the cave.

Back outside, wait for the fish to jump out of the water, then eat them. Jump 
to the first ledge to the right, then jump to grab the final Flower above.

Goal Ring
---------

After you have the flower, continue to the right, eating the rest of the fish 
as they leap out of the water. When you jump to the final ledge, grab the 
coins in the air since two of them are red coins (20). Then, simply jump into 
the Goal Ring and you will be done here.


====================================
World 2-8: Big Bungee Piranha's Lair
====================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and jump across a couple of pipes. Make eggs out of 
the Shy Guys that jump from the middle pipe. When you're ready, go down the 
last pipe to the right. In the room below, go down and right to a Switch 
Block. Hit it to open the way ahead of you. Head right and hit the next one 
to rotate the block above the water. Jump to the upper-right ledge from 
there, but before you continue, jump to the upper-left ledge and go left. 
Collect all the coins as you go left and drop down; three red coins (3) are 
in the mix. Go back right and up, then continue right to the next segment.

There will be red and green Switch Blocks here. Hit both of them once, then 
go through the passage to drop into the water. Float to the left and you will 
find two more red coins (5). Jump back out and hit only the green Switch 
Block, then take the upper path to a new room. In there, go right and hit the 
egg block to fill up, then hit the first red Switch Block. Pass through the 
opening and continue to the green Switch Block further ahead. Hit it three 
times, then jump to the upper ledge. Throw eggs to kill the crab enemy, then 
enter the passage to the right. When you enter the room, jump to avoid the 
fake flower as you grab the real one overhead.

Flower 2
--------

Head back to the left after you grab this first flower. This time, jump to 
the upper-left ledge. Eat the enemies flying overhead to make eggs, then jump 
to collect three red coins (8). Head left and drop down at the end, then when 
you land, hit the red Switch Block to the left. Now, head right and hit the 
green Switch Block three times. Take the lower path this time and continue to 
the right. As you approach the fake flower hanging above, jump to avoid 
getting hit when it rolls toward you.

When you reach the slope, head down to the lower-left room. Make eggs out of 
the Lakitu enemies in the walls, and shoot eggs at the piranha plant to 
defeat it (it will only take one hit with Baby DK, whereas it will take three 
hits with other babies). Once it's clear, jump to the left side and collect 
two red coins (10). Then, go left as far as you can, then aim an egg directly 
upward and shoot to get the Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Once you have the flower, head back right across the watery area. Then, go 
all the way up the slope to the top. There, make eggs out of some more Lakitu 
enemies that come out of the walls, and throw eggs to defeat the piranha 
plants. Shoot an egg at the green Switch Block above, then drop into the 
water and hit the red Switch Block twice. Go through the passage above and 
continue right to an outside area.

Out here, go right and jump into the water below. Defeat the Shy Guy, then 
jump into the water as you move to the left, allowing you to pass under the 
wall. When you emerge, defeat another Shy Guy and collect two coins, one of 
which is a red coin (11). Get back to the other side and head right across 
three pipes. Swim to a ledge further to the right, then shoot an egg at the 
block on the ceiling to make the wall above it collapse.

As soon as you shoot it, jump into the water so that the wall pushes you 
under. Move to the right to pass under the wall, then surface at the other 
side and defeat a Shy Guy. Hit the winged cloud for an extra life and collect 
the coins, including a red coin (12). Head through the bumpers to the left, 
then flutter to the left ledge and make your way upward and to the right. 
Jump over the rolling fake flower, then stand on the left side of the Chomp 
Rock ahead to roll it to the left. When you're able to squeeze in, push it to 
the left, then jump from it to reach the higher ledge. From there, enter the 
pipe to reach a new room.

In this room, collect eggs from the flower that spits them out, then shoot 
them at the bubble covering the pipe. The bubble will eat the eggs you throw 
at it until it finally explodes. Once that happens, go down into the room 
below. There, hop through the Middle Ring and run up the steep hill. Hit the 
egg block until you have six eggs, then jump from it to the high ledge. 
Follow it to the left, killing two crab enemies and collecting two red coins 
at the end (14).

Head back to the egg block and refill, then go directly to the left. Throw an 
egg to defeat the piranha plant, then jump to collect the regular coins and 
another red coin (15). Head right once again, but this time, follow the slope 
going downward. When you reach the yellow platforms, drop into that room and 
defeat the flying enemies, then collect the red coin (16) in the middle.

Continue down the hill to the left and hop onto the next ledge to the left. 
Avoid the hanging plant when it comes down and head left, jumping up the thin 
ledges so that you end up next to the regular piranha plant. Kill it, then 
trigger the hanging one to go down so you can collect the red coin (17) to 
the right. Once you have it, wait for the hanging plant to reset before 
dropping to the lower ledge and heading to the left. In there, defeat the 
piranha plants while avoiding their projectiles. Jump to collect two more red 
coins (19), then shoot an egg to grab the third Flower at the far left.

Flower 4
--------

Head back to the main slope and continue down it to the room below. Defeat 
the regular piranha plants by shooting eggs at them, then jump to trigger the 
hanging one to come down, and jump across its vine after it passes. Collect 
the fourth Flower when you jump across to the other side.

Flower 5
--------

Use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Mario. Also, hit the egg block to fill 
up your supply as you will need them. When you're ready, drop down to the 
area below and head left. Defeat the two crabs, then hit the M block at the 
end. Jump up the leaves of the sunflower that sprouts, then follow the upper 
path to the Character Coin at the end.

Head back to the part with the hanging piranha plant, then continue to the 
right along the lower path that the arrows are pointing at. Run down the 
slope to avoid the hanging plants, then swim across the water where the 
water-spitting fish is. Jump onto the upper-right ledge over the water and 
wait for the fish to start shooting water again, then jump with the stream as 
it pushes you upward. When you reach the ceiling, move to the left and you 
should be able to reach a hidden alcove with the final Flower inside.

Boss Battle
-----------

Once you have it (it may take a few tries, but you'll know what to do when 
you see it), continue to the right. Defeat the piranha plants, then go right 
and trigger the hanging one to come down. Get out of the way, then jump to 
collect the final red coin (20) as the plant retracts. Eat the smaller plant 
enemies if you need some eggs, then continue to the right. Jump through the 
last Middle Ring amd go through the red door when you're ready to meet the 
Big Bungee Piranha.

The giant plant boss is comprised of the piranha plant head, and two smaller 
vines that hang from the sides. The vines will lower themselves to try and 
take your baby away, causing you to lose points and waste time retrieving it. 
The boss will also spit out seedlings which will grow into plant enemies you 
can eat to make eggs. There is a Chomp Rock in the room you can roll around 
as well.

To fight this thing, push the rock around so that it's below the head. After 
a while, you will see/hear a target being made, which is when you should make 
sure the Chomp Rock is underneath the boss. When it swoops down, the boss 
head will hit the rock and retreat to the ceiling stunned. Shoot an egg at 
its dangling tongue to cause damage. As you progress, the time between when 
the target is created and when the boss drops down significantly decreases. 
Therefore, it would be better off if you just keep moving the rock underneath 
it at all times so you're always ready. Either way, it only takes three hits 
to knock this creature out.


===================================
Secret Stage 2: Yikes! Boiling Hot!
===================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and jump onto some tilting platforms. If you stand 
on the right edge of the platforms, you will be able to grab three red coins 
(3) below the right edge of each platform. When you reach the right end, jump 
onto the Arrow Wheel when it points upward. As you ride it upward, the lava 
will start to rise. When you get to the top of the lava waterfall, jump to 
the right ledge and continue to the right while avoiding the shots fired from 
the piranha plants.

Avoid a hanging piranha plant or shoot an egg at it, then jump onto some 
sinking blocks to cross the lava. After you cross the lava, jump onto the 
timer platforms and run to the right. When you spot the Flower below, hop so 
that the platform you're on vanishes, then collect the Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Jump to the upper platform and continue heading to the right. Jump across a 
couple of tilting platforms, then follow the arrows into the next room. Out 
here, bounce on the bats to reach the upper ledge. Go through the Middle Ring 
there and use the Stork Stop on the next ledge to get Baby Peach. Fly in the 
wind gusts to reach the upper area. Collect the coin closest to the piranha 
plant under the high ledge to the left to get a red coin (4). Also, the top 
left coin on the leftmost line of coins yields a red coin as well (5).

Land on the top ledge and collect another red coin (6), then flutter your way 
to the right. Pass through when the lava waterfalls stop temporarily, then 
when you have the option to go down, take it. Land on a ledge along the left 
side to grab another red coin (7), then fly to the right side and follow the 
line of coins downward. Grab a red coin (8) at the bottom and land on the 
ledge next to an egg flower which shoots green balls you can eat.

From here, fly to the left side and hit the red switch. Jump up the red 
platforms to collect the second Flower, then go back down before they 
disappear.

Flower 3
--------

Fly upward with the wind gusts to the top area, then head right. Pass another 
lava waterfall and float downward when you have the chance. On the left side, 
you can land on a ledge to grab yet another red coin (9). After that, jump to 
the right ledge and use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. Swing on the 
rope, then when you reach the right end, jump upward to reach another rope 
hanging from above. Climb up it, then jump to the left ledge to reach the 
third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Land on the ledge below the rope, then drop to the platform directly below 
it. Go right and climb upward along the vine. At the top, jump to the second 
vine and climb it to reach a red coin (10). Now, drop onto the right ledge 
and continue to the next area. There, go right and avoid the streams of lava 
being shot from the monsters below, and flutter across while avoding the 
spiked pillars. At the other side, jump to collect the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Jump to the next platform and hit the egg block to refill your supply. Look 
to the right and shoot the brown block so that the larger block can fall into 
the lava. Make your way across the lava by shooting down the blocks and 
hopping across the larger ones. Be careful when jumping to the fourth 
platform in the series, since a lava waterfall will come down. Flutter back 
to the previous block to avoid it, then when it's done, jump across. Jump to 
the rope and it will start sliding down the track. Climb upward on it to 
collect two red coins (12), then jump to the vine and continue going right.

In the next area, go through the Middle Ring and you will see a bunch of 
stakes ahead. Be careful not to get hit by the lava monsters as you jump 
across, collecting a red coin (13) along the way. At the other side of the 
wall, drop down to grab the last Flower, then quickly hop to a higher yellow 
platform.

Goal Ring
---------

From the yellow platforms, flutter to the next set of stakes to the right. 
Shoot eggs to defeat the piranha plant atop the wall, then grab a red coin 
from the stake to the right (14) and continue onward. Watch out for the lava 
stream being shot in the air, and collect two more red coins (16) along the 
way. On the safe platform to the right, use the Stork Stop to get Baby Mario.

Run to the right to collect two more red coins (18), then run back to the 
left. If the giant lava monster emerges, shoot an egg to make it retreat. At 
the left side, jump onto the M block platforms and head to the right. At the 
end, hit the single M block to sprout a sunflower. Jump up its leaves and 
shoot an egg into an alcove to the right to receive the final two red coins 
(20).

Now, jump to the top platform and go right to the Goal Ring. As always, jump 
through it to exit the stage.


===============================================
Extra Stage 2: Moving Statues, Standing Statues
===============================================

Flower 1
--------

In this level, the screen will be scrolling to the right once again, so you 
can't take too long here. Jump onto the platform on the track and it will 
move only while you are standing on it. Jump to collect the regular coins and 
three red coins (3) above the track as you move to the right. At the end, 
jump to the next ledge and grab the eggs sitting there. As the screen scrolls 
onward, avoid the tribal Shy Guys or eat them when they face away one of the 
egg at the Flower high above.

Flower 2
--------

On the track below, the platform is moving and will stop whenever you stand 
on it. So, flutter in the air to keep the platform moving as you avoid the 
fish that jump out of the water every now and then. Move to the right along 
the track, stopping briefly below two lines of coins above to shoot eggs 
upward, collecting two more red coins (5). At the end, bounce on the ball to 
reach the tree tops. Eat the Shy Guy when it faces away, then go right and 
bounce on the second ball. Land on the left ledge above and collect the 
second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue to the right and you will reach another moving platform on a track. 
Flutter in the air to keep it moving, landing on the platform when you need 
to. Jump over the tall spears and avoid the eggs being launched at you from 
below as you make your way along the track. When you reach the plant on the 
ceiling, do a ground pound to knock it out temporarily. At the end of the 
track, jump to the right ledge and follow the arrows into the next area.

There, jump through the Middle Ring, then ride the next platform along its 
track. Along the way, jump to avoid the spear and collect two red coins (7) 
above. When the track ends, jump onto the branches and grab some more coins, 
as well as another red coin (8). Jump to the upper branch and hit the egg 
block to fill up, then shoot the balloon with the ball to knock it onto the 
branch. Make sure you have all six eggs, then bounce to the high ledge. Shoot 
the stilts until the Shy Guy becomes visible, then hit the Shy Guy to clear 
the way.

Quickly jump to the ledge to the right of the spikes and wait for the screen 
to scroll to the right. As soon as you can, grab the third Flower, then 
quickly bounce to the high ledge and grab the leftmost coin; it is a red coin 
(9).

Flower 4
--------

Follow the line of coins to the right, then jump to the second tree top. From 
it, jump to the upper-left one to collect another red coin (10). Jump onto 
the platform on the next track and ride it along, jumping to avoid the tribal 
Shy Guys below. Once you reach the end of the track, jump onto the upper 
branch and collect all the coins, including two red coins (12). Go down to 
the ledge below and collect the fourth Flower above the track.

Flower 5
--------

Ride the freefalling platform downward, jumping to stop the drop and avoid 
getting hit by a spear. When you can, jump to the next couple of platforms on 
the tracks to the right. Once you get to the sinking platform with an arrow 
ball on it, bounce upward to reach the platform on the high track. Ride it to 
the right while avoiding the eggs being launched at you from the pitcher 
enemies below, as well as jumping over a spear. At the end of the track, jump 
to the right platform and enter the next area.

There, jump through the Middle Ring to set a new checkpoint. Then, flutter 
above the next platform to move it along the track. When you reach the point 
where there is another track below with a gray platform on it, drop onto it. 
Ride the second platform downward, collecting two red coins (14) on the way. 
When it moves back up, jump back to the first platform as it moves along, 
quickly defeating the Shy Guy in the air holding another red coin (15).

At the end of the track, jump to the ground below. Defeat the tribal Shy Guys 
as you head to the right. Hop on the tilting platform and stand on the stake 
to the right. Let the piranha plant above eat you (this is intentional), then 
quickly retrieve your baby at the high ledge and continue onward. Ground 
pound the wooden box to receive five stars, then hit the M blocks (assuming 
you have Baby Mario here) to get a couple of eggs back.

To the right, make your way along the next several portions of track by 
riding the platforms and jumping above them. Be sure to avoid the giant fish 
that will jump out of the water and try to swallow you whole. At the end of 
the first track, collect the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Continue along the tracks, collecting coins above each one. When you reach 
the fourth track segment, one of the coins above it is a red coin (16) so 
make sure to grab it. For the final part, you will have to jump across a 
series of freefalling platforms while avoiding two giant fish below. Flutter 
above each falling platform so that you can collect all three coins on each 
track. There is a red coin on each of the last four tracks (20), so be sure 
to collect them all. Be very careful since the fish tend to time their jumps 
with yours, so try not to miss a platform as a result.

When you make it to the end, jump through the Goal Ring and this stage will 
be finally over.


=======================
World 3-1: Up the Creek
=======================

Flower 1
--------

Start by jumping to the hill above, and run up to the Stork Stop at the top. 
Switch to Baby DK and head right, swinging back and forth on the first rope 
to gain momentum. Jump to the second rope, but climb toward the top of the 
rope. Wait for any enemies on the vine to drop off, then jump/flutter to the 
vine above. Climb up and jump onto the ledge above it to get a red coin (1). 
From there, go right across a couple of ledges, then drop to the ground below 
at the bottom of the hills. There are two stakes you can pound to get two red 
coins (3).

After you get the coins, climb the vines to reach the top platform, and head 
right. Flutter to the tall stake to the right and pound it all the way down. 
Shoot an egg at the hidden winged cloud that appears to get an extra life. Go 
right some more and jump across a bunch of tilting platforms. When you reach 
the third one, jump to the upper-left platform next. Make your way to the 
vine above, making eggs out of any enemies that appear. Jump around to 
collect coins, including a red coin (4), then climb to the platform above and 
head right.

When you reach the yellow platform, hop onto it, then quickly flutter to the 
first Flower in the air. Once you have it, ride the platform to grab some 
more coins. Once you land, go into the right area.

Flower 2
--------

In the second area, go right and jump up some branches to the Middle Ring. Up 
there, go right and eat any spiked balls on the rope, then jump onto the end 
of it. Swing to the left, then jump to the vine and climb up it. Climb along 
the ceiling to the right, grabbing all the regular coins and a single red 
coin (5), then drop down to grab the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

After you grab the flower, climb back up and head left again. Drop to the 
area below the vine and you will find the third Flower between the branches.

Flower 4
--------

Head to the right and collect an assortment of eggs around the flower. As you 
approach the fancy green one at the end, it will trigger a monster to emerge 
from the water. Shoot an egg to kill it, then jump to the right ledge. Jump 
to the platform with the arrow sign on it and you will see a rope swinging 
above. Before you jump to it, go right and drop to the branch below, where 
you can collect another red coin (6). Drop to the tree tops below and collect 
some eggs, and shoot the trap egg monster when it emerges. While it's 
stunned, go into the water and swim to the left to get a red coin (7).

Once you get that coin, jump to the branches above and then clear the spike 
balls from the rope before grabbing onto it. Swing to the second rope, then 
jump to the vines. Jump onto the rope on a track and hang from the bottom as 
it slides down the path, collecting regular coins and a red coin (8) on the 
way. At the end of the track, drop to the lower area and go left. Eat two of 
the crocodile enemies, and throw the third one into the tulip above to get 
five stars.

Next, hop onto the tilting platform and pound the stake on the left side to 
get another red coin (9). Now, head back to the right and continue going 
right along the water's surface, eating the fish along the way. When you 
reach a stake, pound it to get another red coin (10). To the left, there are 
a couple of blocks you can hit which will flatten out to form moving 
platforms. Hit both blocks and ride the platforms upward to a couple of 
tilting platforms. Hop across them and jump to the lower area at the end, 
totally avoiding the water monster below. Pound the stake and swim under the 
platform to get a red coin (11), then walk right to the next area.

Here, go right into the Middle Ring, then hop onto the raft to start your 
journey along the creek. Eat the fish that leap out along the way, but be 
careful of the large fish which may try to swallow you whole on occasion. 
Along the way, hop onto a platform above the water and grab a red coin from a 
Shy Guy floating overhead (12). Continue riding the raft along and you will 
reach a safe platform with an egg block. Replenish the supply and shoot a 
winged cloud to get five stars. Defeat the Shy Guy that swoops down to get a 
red coin (13). Also, look in the upper-right area and shoot an egg to get the 
next Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the red coin and the flower, continue along the raft ride to 
the second area. In the second part of the raft ride, you will fall down a 
waterfall. There will be several lines of coins, including four red coins 
(17), in this sequence: middle, right, left, right. You will also find the 
fifth Flower on the way down, on the right side.

Goal Ring
---------

When you reach the bottom of the waterfall, jump off the raft and go right to 
the next area. There, jump into the Middle Ring above you and head up the 
hill ahead. When you jump on the first platform with a coin on it, the screen 
will start scrolling upward. Make your way upward as well by jumping from 
ledge to ledge. When you reach a stake, pound it to get a red coin (18). From 
the platform with the Stork Stop on it (switch to Baby DK if you don't 
already have him), eat the spiked ball on the rope, then quickly climb the 
rope and jump to the high donut ledge.

Continue jumping your way upward until you reach a piranha plant on the right 
side. Shoot an egg at it, then jump onto the right ledge and collect a red 
coin (19). Then, quickly drop to the lower ledge and hop up the left 
platforms to continue. Collect the coins on the tilting platforms ahead, the 
rightmost one is the last red coin (20). Once you reach the top, bounce on 
the ball to reach the high hill. Go all the way right and drop into the water 
as soon as you can. Quickly flutter to the left to collect the Character Coin 
with Baby DK. Then, go right to the Goal Ring.


========================================
World 3-2: The Goonie Coast Isn't Clear!
========================================

Flower 1
--------

In this stage, the screen will be scrolling the right as well. Head down the 
starting hill to the water, then head right, making eggs out of the Shy Guys 
you encounter. After the first raft, shoot the Shy Guy flying overhead to get 
the first red coin (1). When you reach the third raft, jump to reveal a 
hidden winged cloud; shoot it to get five stars. Continue to the right until 
the screen starts scrolling upward. Use the Stork Stop to get Baby DK if you 
don't already have him, then start climbing the vine. Shoot an egg to the 
upper-right corner to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Climb the vine and jump onto the platform above it, then head right as the 
screen scrolls. Drop to the bottom platform and collect eggs that the flower 
spits out. Follow the low path going right until you can drop under a few 
donut platforms. Shoot an egg at the winged cloud to get the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

As soon as you grab the flower, you should see a wooden pole in the 
background with many small ledges along it. Jump to the very top and collect 
a red coin (2) atop it. Up ahead, hit the red switch and some red blocks will 
appear below. Drop onto them and collect the red coin (3) at the far right. 
Also, shoot the winged cloud to get another Flower before quickly jumping on 
the donut platforms and continuing onward.

Flower 4
--------

When the next several platforms appear, climb the vine and jump to the 
platform above it. Collect two red coins there (5), then go right to reach a 
Stork Stop. Switch to Baby Peach, then drop to the lower area and pound the 
two stakes all the way down to get two more red coins (7). Continue to the 
right and the screen will start scrolling downward slightly before continuing 
to the right. Drop to an alcove below the platform to reveal a hidden winged 
cloud containing five stars.

With Baby Peach, fly in the wind gusts as you move to the right, collecting 
all the coins. At the end of the coin path, you will find three red coins 
(10) and a Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you have the flower, drop to the platform below. Then, just continue 
right along the path to reach the second area. In the next area, go through 
the Middle Ring and continue to the right. On the raft, jump towards the flag 
and shoot an egg at the winged cloud that appears to get another five stars. 
Defeat the piranha plant ahead with another egg, then shoot the seagulls 
overhead and hop on the red switch. Fly upward with the wind gust to collect 
four more red coins (14). You can also land on the seagulls safely if you 
want.

Continue to the right and the screen will start moving upward again. Break 
the balloon holding the larger ball in the air, then bounce up to the high 
ledge. At the top, switch to Baby DK at the Stork Stop, and continue right 
with the screen. Climb the vine to the topmost part of the ship, then avoid 
the Bullet Bills and shoot the winged cloud to get a Key. Head right and drop 
to the bottom area, and break the wooden box to get five stars.

After that, continue to the Stork Stop and switch back to Baby Peach. Walk to 
the right and drop below the donut blocks to collect another red coin (15). 
Jump back up and continue to the right, ignoring the arrows on the pole 
pointing upward. When the screen dips downward, go right and drop to the area 
below. Collect the Character Coin with Baby Peach, as well as two red coins 
(17) in the air. Then, unlock the door with the key to enter a new room.

In the previously locked room, go left and jump across the gap. Go through 
the Middle Ring, then head through the open door. Outside, simply walk to the 
left and collect the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Jump to the ledge above when it's safe and the screen will start scrolling 
again. Make your way all the way to the right across the bridge, defeating 
Shy Guys and Bullet Bills along the way. When you reach the end of the ship, 
drop to the donut blocks and then to a solid platform below, all while 
avoiding the Bullet Bills and falling bombs. Hit the egg block to refill your 
supply, but be careful since a giant fish will constantly try to hit you by 
swimming and jumping in the air (you will get hit if you just walk along the 
platforms).

As the screen scrolls to the right, shoot the winged cloud to raise the next 
few platforms. Jump across them and collect the final three red coins (20), 
then jump to the rightmost ledge. Head up the hill and defeat a tower of Shy 
Guys, then jump through the Goal Ring to end this level.


==========================
World 3-3: Island of Peril
==========================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head left and make eggs out of the Shy Guys. Jump across all 
the tree tops, including the tallest one, collecting a bunch of regular coins 
and a red coin (1) at the top. Head onto the bridge and avoid the giant fish 
when it leaps out of the water. Shoot the winged cloud to make the green 
platform start moving. Jump onto it and shoot an egg at the line of coins to 
the left and you will get another red coin (2). Then, jump to the upper ledge 
and switch to Baby Mario with the Stork Stop. Then, hop aboard the giant 
ship.

Go left and jump up the ledges around the middle pole to reach the topmost 
platform. Collect the coins, as well as a red coin (3) to the right. Get a 
good running start, then run and jump/flutter to the far left, making sure to 
press and hold the button as soon as you stop fluttering. On the high ledge 
to the far left, collect another red coin (4). After that, go back right to 
the ship and you will see a spiked enemy standing atop a pole. Knock it off 
with your tongue, then jump to where it was standing to get another red coin 
(5). Drop to the main body of the ship and shoot the winged cloud to get five 
stars (if you need eggs, eat the Bullet Bills).

Next, continue to the left and you will come to a pipe. Swim in the water on 
both sides of the pipe and collect the coins, including two red coins (7). 
After that, go down the pipe to reach a new area. There, hit the hint block 
and you will find out that the entire level is a series of islands connected 
by pipes. So, go down the pipe to the left. In the area where you emerge, 
shoot the winged cloud above the island and another one will appear above the 
right raft. Jump onto the raft and shoot the new winged cloud, which will 
then reappear at a different location. Shoot all four of the winged clouds to 
get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

If you want stars, jump onto the right side of the right raft and you will 
find a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it to get five stars. When you're done 
here, go down the pipe to reach the previous area. This time, hit the egg 
block to fill up, then use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. Now, go down 
the third pipe from the left. In this area, defeat all the piranha plants 
with your eggs to receive a Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Once you have the flower, head back to the left side of the island and you 
will find two pipes right next to each other. Go down the left one (it should 
be the lower one) to return to the sunny island. Next, refill your eggs and 
head to the far right pipe across the water. Shoot the hidden winged cloud 
that appears next to the pipe to receive five stars, then go down the pipe.

In the watery room you appear in, touch the bubble to morph into a Submarine. 
Follow the arrows and the coins to make your way through the underwater 
segments, steering clear of the fish. Halfway through the room, touch the 
morph bubble to extend your time in this form. At the right side, there will 
be an alcove to the left containing two red coins (9). Grab the coins, then 
hit the Yoshi block and jump onto the ledge above. Follow the path to the 
left, dropping into another alcove to get two red coins (11), then continue 
left to get the Flower.

Flower 4
--------

With the flower in hand, jump to the ledge above and go up the pipe. You will 
emerge on the rainy island now. Here, use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby 
DK if you haven't already, then go down the rightmost pipe. When you emerge, 
jump through the Middle Ring, then start climbing up the vines above you. 
Make eggs out of the crocodile enemies that constantly climb down the vines 
to attack. Be sure to collect all the coins on the way up, especially the 
ones on the outer edges of the vines; you will find four red coins on the way 
up (15). At the very top, collect the fourth Flower. Then, drop to the ground 
far below and head back through the pipe.

Flower 5
--------

Back on the rainy island, switch to Baby Mario with the Stork Stop, then go 
down the middle pipe. You will emerge in a night time setting. Here, swim in 
the water to the left and right to retrieve two red coins (17). Then, hop 
upward along the yellow rotating platforms and jump on the stack of Shy Guys 
to knock them over. On the ship, shoot the winged cloud to the right of the 
Bullet Bill to receive five stars. Collect the group of coins below it to 
find a red coin (18) among them.

Now, hop up the ledges going around the middle pole to reach the topmost 
platform. Get a running start, then jump and flutter your way to the left. 
When you stop fluttering, quickly press the button again to start fluttering 
again. Make your way to the leftmost ledge, where you will find the Character 
Coin for Baby Mario. Head back to the ship and continue to the right side of 
it. Jump onto the end of the ship and shoot the winged cloud to make stairs 
appear.

Drop onto the stairs and collect the coins under the end of the ship, 
including a red coin (19). Go right and jump to avoid the giant fish, then go 
down the pipe next to the arrow sign. In there, collect the last Flower at 
the bottom.

Goal Ring
---------

Now that you have the last flower, jump back up the ledges and exit the pipe 
room. Go right and jump onto the tree tops to collect the last red coin (20). 
With that done, all that's left is for you to jump through the nearby Goal 
Ring.


===================================
World 3-4: Bessie Bass's Battleship
===================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head left to the end of the ship. There will be an arrow sign 
pointing to the right, and a series of small platforms below it. Drop onto 
them, then flutter to the area just below the end of the ship. You will 
reveal a hidden winged cloud there; shoot it to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Hop back up the platforms and board the giant ship again. Make your way 
across the length of the ship, collecting all the coins on the ledges. There 
will be three red coins (3) on the ledges to be found. At the middle of the 
ship, jump to the highest platform and collect another red coin (4) on the 
right side. Then, jump at the highest point to collect the Flower high above.

Flower 3
--------

Now that you have collected everything outside, it's time to enter the ship. 
There are numerous entries by using the pipes, but to collect everything, 
start off by going down the leftmost pipe. In that room, drop to the bottom 
area and defeat the swinging blob enemy. Collect a red coin (5), then jump up 
the stairs. Shoot the winged cloud to form a platform leading to the left. 
Jump to collect all the coins, including another red coin (6). If you have 
Baby Mario, you can hit the M blocks to get a couple of stars and some coins 
as well. After this, go left and back up the pipe to exit.

Back outside, go down the next pipe to the right. In there, head left across 
the ledges, jumping on the Paratroopas along the way. When you reach the left 
ledge, hit the crab with three eggs to defeat it. Drop down to collect more 
coins, including a couple of red coins (8). Defeat another crab and drop into 
the lower-left alcove. If you are Baby DK, you can break through the cracked 
blocks and collect the Character Coin here. If not, then just come back 
later.

Anyway, go through the door to the right. In that room, jump up the ledges to 
the left, and grab one of the Koopa Troopas. At the top, spit the shell out 
so it slides down the narrow path on the left side, allowing you to collect 
another Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Once that's done, head right and you will find a wooden box. Push it to the 
left, then jump from it to reach the higher ledge. Up there, make eggs out of 
the Shy Guys and collect all the coins above, including two red coins (10). 
Push the vase all the way left so it falls and breaks, giving you a Key. Now, 
drop to the area below and push the wooden box all the way right until it 
falls. Drop down to reach the box, then push it to the left. Use it to reach 
the ledge above. There, jump on the Koopa Troopas and collect all the coins, 
then shoot the winged cloud to the left to get five stars.

Drop down to the area below the cloud to get two red coins (12). After that, 
go through the bumpers and head through the door to the right. In that room, 
simply jump on the balls to bounce your way to the top area, ignoring the 
winged cloud for now. Go through the door at the top. Shoot the winged cloud 
above the stairs to get five stars, then head through the Middle Ring. Next, 
go up the second set of stairs and jump into the pipe to get back outside.

Back outside again, jump to the ledge above and enter the pipe to the right. 
Go left and down to the lower area, then head right. Shoot the spiked enemies 
off the high ledges by using eggs, then jump up to collect the coins, as well 
as two red coins (14). At the bottom of the room, go through the door. In the 
next room, make your way downward some more while defeating the Shy Guys and 
the thieves. Collect the coins in the lower-right area to find a red coin 
(15), then jump up the ledges and go left. Collect the coins to the left of 
the bumper and you will find another red coin (16). After that, go through 
the door to reach a new room.

There, jump on the ball to reach the ledges above you. Shoot the winged cloud 
to get five stars, then shoot an egg at the vase to flip it over. Jump onto 
it and the ghost enemy will emerge, pushing you upward instead of hurting you 
had you not flipped it. Collect the coins in the air, grabbing two more red 
coins in the mix (18). Drop through the bumpers to the left, collecting the 
fourth Flower on the way down.

Flower 5
--------

Once you land, head right and drop to the bottom area, then continue to the 
left. Avoid the two ghost pot enemies as you go up the path, then jump on the 
last vase to reach the ledges above. Jump up the ledges and hit the egg block 
if you need eggs, then flip the next vase over with an egg. Jump to the ledge 
above and walk to the left. Walk just enough so that the bumpers open, but 
don't go through them. Shoot an egg at the winged cloud to make the stairs 
appear, then go right and up them. Jump to the top ledge and grab the second 
Key, then go through the door.

In the next room, simply jump up the ledges to the pipe above. If you want 
eggs, eat the Shy Guys in here, or knock the shell back and forth to get an 
extra life from all the enemies. Otherwise, go up the pipe to get back 
outside. Before you open the locked door, there is one last pipe you need to 
go down. Head right and go down the last pipe. In that room, you will see a 
line of coins and an arrow pointing in their direction. Line yourself up and 
shoot an egg at the coins to collect the last two red coins (20), as well as 
the final Flower.

Boss Battle
-----------

After you get the flower and the coins, go back up the pipe to exit. Now, go 
left and unlock the door to reach a new area. In here, as you head down the 
stairs, the lights will dim and the Boos will give chase if you turn your 
back to them. If you want to hit them, simply bounce eggs off the wall. At 
the bottom, collect the eggs and unlock the second door. In the last room, 
flutter across the water and go through the Middle Ring. You should also use 
the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Mario at this point. When you're ready, go 
through the red door and meet Bessie Bass.

The room will become partially filled with water, and three platforms will 
float atop it. There will be eggs and Shy Guys dropped into the room 
periodically if you need more eggs, so don't panic if you run out. As for the 
battle, the giant fish will swim back and forth under the water. Jump to 
avoid getting hit when it swims by. It will bob its head out of the water; 
watch for when the water around it starts getting splashed around, since that 
this point the fish will jump in and out of the water.

It will either make a small jump, or a huge leap straight out of the water, 
crashing into one of the three platforms. When it's going to make the big 
jump, you will see the fish try to fake you out before actually leaping. 
Watch where the fish is when the leap is about to take place, and get to the 
platform next to it. Aim upward and shoot an egg when the fish faces 
downward, aiming for its mouth. If you actually land an egg inside its mouth, 
the fish will fall back down, taking damage. After you do it twice, the fish 
will make several small leaps across the room before making the giant jump, 
so you will need to avoid that as well. It will only take three egg shots to 
defeat this boss.


================================
World 3-5: Heeeeeeeeere's Wario!
================================

Flower 1
--------

At the start of the level, you will have control of a new baby, Baby Wario. 
He will carry a magnet, which can be used to attract nearby coins and other 
metal objects. Starting off, make eggs out of the bats above and shoot an egg 
to collect the first Flower high above.

Flower 2
--------

Continue to the right and you will find a metal block with the magnet icon on 
it. If you move next to the block and turn so that Baby Wario is facing it, 
the magnet will attract it. Pull the block to the left so you can progress, 
then continue right to the next block. Pull it to the left, then use the 
magnet to attract the coins to the right, including a red coin (1). Jump from 
the block to reach the high ledge, then jump onto the next metal block to 
attract more coins and another red coin (2).

Pull the block to the left so you can reach the next ledge. Once there, push 
the metal block in front of you and jump to the ledge above. Shoot the winged 
cloud to get some coins, then eat/spit out the Koopa Troopa on the next 
ledge. Avoid the shell and aim above at the high-flying winged cloud to 
reveal another Flower. Shoot a second egg to retrieve it.

Flower 3
--------

After you get the flower, continue to the right and make eggs out of the Shy 
Guys. Pull the metal block to the right and jump to the upper ledge, then go 
left to find a bunch of coins and two red coins (4) among them. Drop through 
the bumpers to the right and continue downward to the Middle Ring. Go through 
it, then push the metal block to the left against the wall. Stand on it and 
shoot an egg through the dirt above to make a ball drop onto the block. Pull 
the block to the right until it's under the hole in the ceiling, then bounce 
on the ball to reach the high ledge. Collect a red coin (5) among the mass of 
coins up here, as well as the next Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Go through the bumpers to the right and shoot the winged cloud to get five 
stars. After that, drop to the lower area and continue to the right. When you 
reach the ship, jump up the ledges and pull the metal block from the wall to 
the left. When it falls, drop down and push the block to the left, then use 
it to reach the ledges above. At the top, hit the yellow and red egg blocks 
to receive some eggs, then jump around to collect the coins. Also, go left 
and jump to reach the coins in the ceiling. There will be four red coins (10) 
among all the coins up here.

Once you're done, go right and drop down to collect three coins, and land on 
the ship. If you want to find a secret, flutter to the right ledge and jump 
on the Koopa Troopa to gain enough leverage to reach the high ledge. There, 
jump to reveal a hidden winged cloud which you can shoot to get five stars. 
After that, go down and right to the next area. Jump to the ledges above and 
hop through the Middle Ring, then jump onto the ledge below the yellow 
platform on the track. Look above and shoot an egg at the winged cloud to 
reveal a Flower. Shoot a second egg to grab it.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, jump onto the yellow platform. Along the speedy 
course, jump to collect all the coins, including three red coins (13). When 
you reach the end of the track, jump onto the next ship to the right. Jump to 
the platform directly to the right and collect another red coin (14), then 
jump up the ledges. Pull the metal block to the left, then jump into the 
alcove above to reveal a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it to get five stars.

Next, shoot an egg at the brown block to break it, then ride the green 
platform upward. Go right and shoot eggs to break the three brown blocks. 
Pull the metal block so that it's directly below the dirt patch in the 
ceiling, then stand on the block and shoot an egg upward to drop a large ball 
onto the block. Push the block to the left and bounce to reach the high 
ledge. Shoot the winged cloud to get five stars, then collect two red coins 
(16). If you go down the path, you can collect a Character Coin with Baby DK 
(if this is your first time here, you'll have to come back later when the 
Stork Stop will be nearby).

After you do that, switch back to Baby Wario. then, go back left and drop 
down, and head right. Go through the bumpers and shoot a winged cloud to get 
some more stars. Continue to the right and collect a red coin (17) in the 
middle of a coin formation. Go back left and drop down until you reach the 
next path leading to the right. Take that path to a red platform and hop onto 
it.

As you ride along this speedy track, face the left so that the magnet will 
attract all the coins. You will get the final three red coins on this path 
(20). At the end, jump to the small platforms in the air and ignore the Goal 
Ring for now. Jump to the last platform and shoot an egg upward to get the 
last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Now that you're done here, drop to the area below and jump through the Goal 
Ring to leave this stage.


============================================
World 3-6: Use the Magnet to Get Rich Quick!
============================================

Flower 1
--------

In this level, you will see metal platforms in the air; if you jump under 
them with Baby Wario, you can pull them down so you can jump onto them. Start 
off here by going left and pounding the stake to get a red coin (1). Use the 
magnet to pull down a platform, then jump onto the tree tops to find another 
red coin (2). If you don't already have Baby Wario, a Stork Stop is nearby. 
Continue to the right, fluttering over the large body of water to avoid the 
jumping Bloopers. Pound the stake down and pull the metal block out of its 
hole, then jump from it to reach the high ledge. Up there, go right to the 
next area.

Here, make your way up the metal platforms by pulling them down and jumping 
onto them. At the peak of the second one, jump and flutter to the grass 
covering the right wall and you will find a hidden red coin (3). When you 
reach the vines, jump towards the first patch of grass covering the ceiling 
to get a red coin (4). As you go right, jump to pull more coins from the 
brush, including another red coin (5). Shoot an egg at the block in the wall 
to free a green platform, then ride it to the left. At its peak, jump and 
flutter to attract two more red coins (7).

Drop to the lower area and head right, where you will find a winged cloud 
containing five stars if you shoot it. To the left, you will find a metal 
block; pull it to the right, then drop through the passage. When you land, go 
all the way left until you're against the wall, then turn around. You will 
see some arrows pointing to spots on the wall. While against the left wall, 
turn and shoot an egg at the spot where the arrows point. With luck, they 
will ricochet to hit the winged cloud above. Do it again to retrieve the 
first Flower that appears.

Flower 2
--------

Now, head to the nearby Stork Stop and switch to Baby DK. Go right and eat a 
crocodile enemy, then jump and spit it into the tulip to get some stars. When 
the enemies are gone, climb the vine to reach the ledge, then jump to collect 
the red coin above (8). Shoot an egg at the patch of grass directly above 
where the tulip was to find another red coin (9). As Baby DK, continue to the 
right. Defeat the hopping enemies, then jump to the middle vine. Climb up it, 
then jump to the right to grab a red coin in the grass (10). Jump and climb 
your way to the top area, then flutter and jump to the left ledge where you 
will find a Key.

With the Key in tow, go right and jump/flutter to a high vine. Climb it to 
reach a hidden coin room. Use the Stork Stop there to switch to Baby Wario, 
then make your way through the room, collecting all the coins in the boxes 
and in the air above. There will be four red coins (14) that you can find 
here. When you reach the top area, go right and you will see a few flowers on 
the ceiling. Jump to avoid the first two fakes, then collect the real one at 
the far right.

Flower 3
--------

Once you have the flower, drop down to the ground and exit through the pipe. 
When you land, switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop, then drop to the lower 
area. Hit all the transparent M blocks to make them solid, then switch back 
to Baby Wario. Use the magnet to pull the metal block to the right. Drop it 
onto the floor switch to open the room to the right. Go into the room to 
collect the Flower, then continue to the right.

Flower 4
--------

Go through the bumpers, then jump straight up to attract a red coin (15) 
towards you. Eat the leaves off the flower enemy, then continue all the way 
right to the end. Shoot an egg at the block to bring down a Stork Stop. Jump 
into the alcove where the Stork Stop was stuck to find another red coin (16). 
Go left and jump to pull down the metal platform, pulling down two red coins 
as well (18). Jump onto the platform so you can reach the ledges above. If 
you want to use the Key, go right and unlock the door to play a flying mini-
game to get some extra lives. Otherwise, continue going up and to the left. 
Head through the Middle Ring and jump to the upper ledges.

Hop your way to the right, pulling coins from the brush above. Ignore the red 
switch for now; instead, continue right to the Stork Stop. Switch to Baby 
Mario, then go back and hit the red switch. When the blocks appear, quickly 
run and jump to the right across them all, jumping to the ledge with the 
flower enemy at the end. Eat the leaves, then jump to collect the fourth 
Flower behind it when it's safe.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, switch back to Baby Wario and head left to where 
the red switch was. Pull a metal block to the right, pushing it down to the 
ledge below. Continue leading it to the right until it falls onto a floor 
switch, activating the wind gust ahead. Switch to Baby Peach, then fly upward 
in the gust to get the Character Coin. Drop off the right side and land on 
the donut blocks, then jump to the ledge below. Shoot the ghost enemy that 
pops out of the first pipe, then do a ground pound ahead to clear the flower 
enemy. Shoot the second ghost, then go through the Middle Ring and continue 
to the next room.

Here, go right and you will see a large body of water with coins and 
Paratroopas flying above it. Hop onto each Paratroopa while holding the jump 
button to gain extra air, then flutter to collect each set of coins as you 
make your way to the right. There is a red coin (19) towards the middle of 
this part. At the end, land on the safe platform and clear the Shy Guy towers 
above. Jump onto the tree tops and flutter to the right, collecting even more 
coins and the last red coin (20). Be extremely careful since the giant fish 
below will leap out of the water to try and swallow you. When you reach the 
vertically-moving platform, ride it to the bottom to get the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

After you get the flower, hop onto the Paratroopas to gain some lift, then 
jump and flutter to the right. Clear another tower of Shy Guys and jump into 
the Goal Ring ahead to end this level.


================================
World 3-7: Tap-Tap's Sunken Cave
================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head right while jumping to avoid the spiky enemies and the 
bombs overhead. Hit the egg block to stock up on eggs, then continue right to 
a wooden box containing five stars. Break it and step on the switch to the 
right, opening the gate to the lower area. After the gate fully opens, 
quickly jump into the opening, grabbing three red coins (3) on the way down.

When you land in the cave, head right, making eggs out of the bats if you 
want. When you reach the cracked block in the floor, ground pound it and drop 
into the water to collect two more red coins (5). Look above and shoot an egg 
at the winged cloud to get five more stars. Shoot the winged cloud above the 
water to the right and it will make five transparent clouds appear.

Shoot the closest one to make a platform appear, covering the water. When the 
bridge forms, jump to grab the coins in the air, including two red coins (7). 
Another cloud will drain the water below; coins and stars can be found from 
two others. The topmost one will reveal the first Flower, which you can 
retrieve by shooting an egg at it.

Flower 2
--------

After you collect everything, go left and drop into the now drained hole. In 
the water, swim to the right and go down the pipe to reach the next room. 
There, drop to the ledges below and you will find a Stork Stop. Jump to the 
ledge to the right of the gap and hit the two egg blocks. Then, line up with 
the arrows and shoot an egg so it ricochets, grabbing you the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Once you have the flower, break the two brown blocks to the left, including 
the one the Stork Stop is on. That way, you can reach it when you drop to the 
lower area. Switch to Baby Wario, then go through the Middle Ring below and 
collect another red egg from the block. For the next part, you will have to 
deal with giant blocks moving up and down, or from left to right. Head right 
and down, collecting the coins along the way, until you reach the first block 
moving from side to side.

At this point, you can either jump from the horizontally-moving block to an 
upper ledge and then onto the upper path for the next part, or simply take 
the lower path to the right. First take the lower path, ducking into the 
small alcoves below and running between them only when the blocks move up. 
You will be able to collect four red coins (11) here. When you see the bumper 
above, turn back and take the upper path. On the upper path, go right, 
stopping at each alcove. When you reach the end, collect the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Drop through the bumpers and continue to the right. When you reach the end 
shortly, go through the bumpers and jump over the spiky enemies, then go down 
the pipe. In the next room, you will see that the water level will rise and 
fall. As the water falls, head to the left side of the room and collect the 
coins, one of which is a red coin (12). When it rises again, head right and 
hit the egg block to refill.

Pass the Stork Stop and jump to the right of the thin column to the right of 
it. As the water goes down, ground pound through the soft blocks and collect 
another red coin (13) in between them. Make your way to the large area to the 
far right, then head up the ledges, defeating the piranha plants on the way. 
When you reach the top, you will see an arrow pointing upward into a narrow 
alcove. Drop to the thin platform directly below the arrow, then shoot an egg 
upward into the alcove and it will ricochet, collecting you three more red 
coins (16).

After that, go right and drop into the rising and falling waters again. Head 
to the left by the wall and sink with the water in the narrow passage to 
collect the red coin at the bottom (17). When the water rises, go right and 
sink when the water level falls again. Jump to avoid the rotating spiked 
pillar and collect another red coin (18) at the bottom. Rise up and head to 
the right, jumping onto a couple of thin ledges.

To the right of the ledges is a block you can pound through. In this area, 
head to the right, making sure to collect the coins between each pillar, 
including the last two red coins (20). When the water rises, get to the 
rightmost point, then wait for the water to fall. As it falls, pound through 
some more dirt and collect the next Flower in the opening.

Flower 5
--------

When the water rises again, head to the left and jump out of this enclosure. 
Jump to the upper-right platform and follow the arrows leading to another 
area. For this next part, use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby Mario. When 
you are ready, go through the Middle Ring and the bumpers, and walk ahead a 
slight bit. A giant spiked ball will come crashing through the ceiling, and 
will proceed to chase you through this room full of small platforms.

Run along, jumping from platform to platform, concentrating more on speed 
rather than collecting the coins (remember that there are no red coins here). 
Towards the end, jump and flutter to grab the last Flower, as well as the 
Character Coin for Baby Mario.

Goal Ring
---------

After you get the Character Coin, you're pretty much at the end. So, drop 
down to the final platform below and jump through the Goal Ring to finish up.


==========================================
World 3-8: Castle of Priscilla the Peckish
==========================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head to the right, stopping when the waterfalls are coming 
down. At the Stork Stop, switch to Baby Wario, then continue to the metal 
platform in the air. Jump to pull it down, then jump aboard to reach the 
upper area. Jump and flutter to the right to grab all the coins, including 
three red coins (3). Flutter back to the metal platform, then shoot an egg 
directly to the right to receive the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Drop to the ground and collect eggs from the flower, then shoot them at the 
gear above the spiked block preventing you from passing. Shoot the gear a few 
times to raise the block temporarily, then run through. Make eggs from the 
Shy Guys that spawn from the pipes, then hit the red Flip Block to flip the 
red spiked platforms. Jump up them to reach the top ledge, then hit the 
second Flip Block and jump to the right to get another red coin (4). Now, go 
through the door to reach the next room.

Here, head to the left, stopping at each waterfall. At the far left, jump to 
pull the metal platform downward. Ride it upward, then hit the Flip Block to 
reverse the platforms again. Now, jump and flutter your way to the right, 
going from platform to platform, collecting the coins. There are two red 
coins (6) to be found up here as well. Just make sure not to hit the Flip 
Blocks when fluttering between platforms, or you may be in trouble. At the 
right end, drop to the area below and continue going right.

When you come to the waterfall that falls into a pit, look down to see some 
coins below. Drop into that pit to reach a hidden room. There, use the Stork 
Stop and switch to Baby DK, then swim to the left. Make eggs out of the blob 
enemies, then jump onto the ledges to retrieve the Character Coin. Continue 
all the way to the left, eating a bunch of enemies and hitting the yellow egg 
blocks along the way. At the end, shoot the winged cloud to get five stars, 
then go through the door.

You will now be back in the room you fell from. Go through the bumpers to the 
right, then make your way all the way right just like before. As you head to 
the right, jump to collect the coins, including two more red coins (8). You 
will see the next flower in an alcove below a platform, next to some spikes. 
Wait for the waterfall to stop, then drop down and flutter over the spikes to 
reach the Flower.

Flower 3
--------

To get back out, wait for the next waterfall to come and go, then jump and 
flutter to the right ledge. Jump across another spike pit, then hop through a 
Middle Ring. There will now be three pipes in front of you. Start by going 
through the top pipe. In the room you emerge in, bounce on the ball to reach 
the ledge high above. Ground pound the wooden box to get a Key, then go back 
down and exit via the pipe.

Next, go through the middle pipe, which leads to a Stork Stop. Switch to Baby 
Peach, then exit. Finally, go through the bottom pipe to continue. In this 
gusty room, eat the Arrow Wheel and keep it in your mouth, then flutter your 
way upward. Collect all the coins along the way, including two red coins (10) 
and the third Flower in the middle area.

Flower 4
--------

When you reach the top area, the wind will stop and you will find two locked 
doors. Ignore them for now and jump to the ledges above. Bounce on the small 
ball to the right to get another red coin above (11). Avoid the rotating fire 
poles and make your way to the top area. Go through the Middle Ring there, 
then head through the upper-right pipe. In the dark room, go right and drop 
to the area below. Go through the pipe to the left, then in the next room, 
bounce on the ball to reach the top area. Collect a red coin (12) and break 
the box to get another Key. Go through the bumpers and use both Keys on the 
locked doors to play mini-games for extra lives.

When you're done here, bounce back to the top area and head through the pipe. 
In the dark room again, go right and drop down, then continue right to the 
Stork Stop. Switch to Baby Wario, then drop along the coin path to the water 
below. Eat the swinging blob enemies and head to the left side first. Jump to 
avoid the giant fish in the water, then get onto the ledge and collect the 
coins above, as well as a red coin (13). It should also be noted that if you 
want, you can eat the torches on the wall and spit fire three times with 
them.

Swim your way to the right, collecting coins and another red coin (14), until 
you reach the next set of platforms with the lantern enemies. Continue going 
right, collecting another red coin (15) and eating the enemies. When you come 
to the first Lakitu in the window, defeat it, then look up to see a narrow 
path. Stand on the platform that rises out of the water periodically and aim 
an egg directly upward into the narrow passage to get the next Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Continue swimming to the right until you reach the door on the ledge. Before 
you go through it however, go right and jump to grab another red coin (16) 
while avoiding the fish. Then, go through the door to the next room. There, 
go through the next Middle Ring and pass the Stork Stop. Hop across the 
yellow rotating platforms, making your way upward to the green platforms on a 
track. Collect all the coins on the way up, including a red coin (17). Jump 
onto the green platforms, then onto a ledge above them to recover another red 
coin (18).

Now, hop on the green platforms on the right side of the wheel to roll it 
down the track. At the other end of the track, jump to the ledges above and 
hit the egg block to refill your supply. You can also shoot the spike balls 
to the right with eggs if you want. To the left of the egg block, you can 
grab the final Flower as well.

Boss Battle
-----------

Head back to the green platforms, and drop below them to some purple ones on 
another track. Hop along them to move to the right, then jump to the safe 
platform and collect another red coin (19). Ride the green platform to the 
right, then jump onto the purple platform above and duck under the spikes as 
you move to the right. At the other side, jump to the yellow platforms and 
hop along the top of them to pull down a metal platform. Ride it upward, then 
jump around to collect a bunch of coins. After that, go down and right onto 
the purple and red platforms to find the last red coin (20). Go through the 
final Middle Ring, then enter the red door to meet the boss.

The boss here is Priscilla the Peckish, and it is a white antlion creature 
which sits at the bottom of a room full of quicksand. The hills leading to 
the bottom center area are full of slippery sand, so you'll want to avoid 
falling onto it. Shy Guys will constantly spawn from the pipes on the sides 
of the room, so you can always make eggs out of them. The boss will also spit 
spiked ball enemies up, which you can also eat.

After a while, if you just stand on one of the platforms, a Shy Guy will 
float in from above and the boss will jump in the air to eat it. This is when 
you can attack by shooting an egg at it. To trigger the boss to leap in the 
air, you can also jump over the middle area between platforms. It will only 
take three shots for you to defeat Priscilla for good.


===================================
Secret Stage 3: A Light in the Dark
===================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and use the Stork Stop below to get Baby DK. Go up 
the stairs and flutter in the air above to grab the first red coin (1). Head 
right and go down the stairs at the path split, then jump over a spike pit 
and continue to the right. Jump to collect another red coin (2), then enter 
the room at the end. There, you will have to deal with two blocks moving up 
and down (be careful so they don't crush you), and four piranha plants in 
each corner. Defeat the plants with eggs or by shooting fire, then collect 
the Flower that appears overhead.

Flower 2
--------

Exit the room and head left, then go back up the stairs. Go left until you 
reach the chain hanging from above, and climb up it. Make an egg out of the 
lantern enemy and jump through the Middle Ring. Now, look above and to the 
right, and shoot eggs directly upward while fluttering below the arrow on the 
wall to knock a large rubber ball downward. Bounce from it to reach the high 
ledge. From the ledge, shoot eggs upward to knock another ball loose. Bounce 
to the top area, then run to the far right and then to the far left to 
collect two red coins (4).

Next, drop to the lower area and go left. Jump across the gap and go up the 
stairs, then hop to collect a red coin (5) as you continue left to the next 
room. In that room, eat the Arrow Wheel and spit it out to the left, then 
ride it directly upward. At the top, make your way to the right while eating 
through the slew of enemies. Go through the bumpers and another Middle Ring, 
then jump to the upper ledge and ride the Arrow Wheel to the right. Jump to 
collect a red coin (6) above along the way, then continue. To the right is a 
seemingly empty room, but if you check by the middle unlit torch, a hidden 
winged cloud will appear. Shoot it with an egg to reveal the second Flower 
for you to collect.

Flower 3
--------

Head back to the left, then go up and continue to the right. Jump onto the 
right ledge at the end. Push the vase off its platform and collect the Key 
that falls out, then follow the arrow sign right to a long fall. At the 
bottom, go left and eat more flying enemies, and drop to the lower area at 
the end. Eat the Arrow Wheel above, then spit it out and ride it to the left. 
When you see the line of coins leading upward, ride the wheel upward to the 
top. Collect a red coin (7) at the top, then go left to find the third 
Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Head back to the right, then ride the Arrow Wheel downward. At the bottom, 
continue to the left, and go through the door to exit the room. Back in the 
first area, go all the way right past the hanging chain. Go up the stairs and 
continue to the upper-right room. In there, jump to the upper ledge and 
switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop. Grab two red coins above (9), then 
drop down to the lower area. Go right and drop down again, then eat the 
lantern enemy and drop to the ledge below it. Hop over the spiked ball enemy, 
and flutter into a narrow passage to the right.

Go through the passage and jump to the Middle Ring halfway through it. Drop 
down and go right, then hop up the ledges to the area above. There, go right 
and jump to the upper area with all the hopping enemies. Eat them, and jump 
to collect a red coin above (10). From here, go right and make eggs out of 
more hopping enemies, then jump over some spikes.

Collect a red coin above (11) as you continue to the right, then go down some 
stairs. At the bottom, go left and push the vase off its ledge to collect the 
second Key. Now, head right and pass through the bumpers, and switch to Baby 
Mario if you haven't already done so. Get a running start, then jump and 
flutter to the right, collecting the fourth Flower in midair. Get through the 
bumpers at the other end and you will be safe.

Flower 5
--------

Go through the bumpers to the right, then jump to the upper ledge and hit the 
red switch. Quickly drop to the lower area and run across the red blocks to 
the right. At the other end, jump to the upper ledge, go up the stairs, and 
exit through the door. Back in the main area, head all the way right until 
you reach the locked door. Unlock it, and enter that room.

Go through the Middle Ring and shoot the spikes to the right with eggs, then 
bounce upward. Head up the stairs and unlock the second door to end up 
outside. Go through yet another Middle Ring, then when you are ready, enter 
the building. You will emerge wearing skis, and proceed to ride down the 
slopes ahead. Leap over the first gap, then hop over the rock on the second 
part. Jump over the second gap, then speed down the long hill. At the end, 
jump to follow the coin line to a block in the middle of the gap. Collect the 
red coin (12) then quickly hop from the block to the other side of the gap, 
and continue to the second segment.

In the second area, grab the two sets of coins, then jump over a rock and 
collect the coins above the first gap. When you land, hop over a second rock 
and then over another gap. Head down a downhill portion, then at the bottom, 
jump to collect all the coins in the air, including a red coin (13). When you 
land, continue along the short platform before jumping over another gap, 
where you will grab another red coin (14). Then, continue right to the third 
part of the slopes.

Head down the hill ahead, then hop in the air to collect a red coin (15). 
When you land, you will reach another gap with an arrow on the wall above it. 
Jump to collect another red coin (16), as well as the fifth Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Land on the small ledge just below the flower, then quickly hop again to get 
two more red coins (18). Make your way down the next hill and jump at the 
bottom, following the line of coins through the air. Land at the other side 
and continue down the hill. When the path flattens out, jump to collect a red 
coin (19) in the air, then continue to the next area.

In the new area, go through the Middle Ring and eat the torch next to it. 
Jump across the two moving platforms, then hop across a series of smaller 
ledges. Light a couple of the torches above the spike pit, then use flames to 
kill the crabs to the right. When your fire power runs out, go back and eat 
another torch to continue safely. Pass the Stork Stop and jump to collect the 
last red coin (20), then continue right to the Goal Ring and exit this stage.


==================================
Extra Stage 3: Number Ball Special
==================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go right to find a pipe. Jump into the space to the right of 
the pipe to reveal a winged cloud; shoot it to get five stars. Now, go down 
the pipe to the cave below. When you land, go through the door to the left. 
In that room, head right and pick up the red #1 ball. Collect the coins as 
you follow the path to the right, including two red coins (2). Go through the 
door to the right and you will reach a central room divided by walls. Throw 
the #1 ball at the numbered target on the wall and the ball will stick there.

Now, backtrack to the main room where the Stork Stop is. Switch to Baby Mario 
if you don't already have him, and ground pound through the first set of dirt 
to the left. On the first ledge you reach, jump through the Middle Ring. 
Pound to the next level, and you will find a metal block to the right. Shoot 
an egg through the dirt to the left, then go through the passage and hit the 
M block to reveal a rubber ball. Bounce to the upper ledge and enter that 
room.

In there, go left and hit the egg block, then jump to the upper ledge. Follow 
the path going upward while jumping to collect the coins, all while avoiding 
the rotating spiked pillar. You will find three red coins (5), the green #2 
ball, and a Flower at the top of the room.

Flower 2
--------

Once you have the #2 ball, head back down the path and exit this room. Drop 
to the M block below and shoot through the dirt, then ground pound to the 
bottom level. Once at the bottom, enter and exit the door between the bumpers 
(you'll come back here soon anyway) to reset the dirt above. From here, go 
through the bumpers to the right and switch to Baby Peach at the Stork Stop. 
Enter the alcove to the far right and collect the coins, including a red coin 
(6).

You will see two flowers which blow the wind upward; you can switch flowers 
by hitting the Flip Block. Fly up the left flower's gust to the top area, 
then switch to Baby Wario. Ground pound through two levels of dirt until you 
reach the area with the metal block. Pull the block to the left using Baby 
Wario's magnet, then go through the right passage and enter the room. There, 
throw the #2 ball at its target, then exit the room. Push the block to the 
left so you can exit, then ground pound to the bottom area.

Next, go through the left bumpers and shoot the winged cloud to make stairs 
appear. Go up to the top of them, then angle an egg shot against the right 
wall so that it hits the Flower in the alcove above. Also, make sure to jump 
to the left ledges above the stairs and collect the Key.

Flower 3
--------

From here, go left some more to a pipe where lantern enemies constantly 
spawn. Make eggs if you need them, then jump up the ledges above the pipe, 
collecting coins along the way. Switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop, then 
jump up the platforms made of M blocks. Jump through the Middle Ring to the 
left, then jump over to the right platform. At the top, go right and use the 
first Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. Then, pound through all the dirt to 
reach the very bottom once again. Once there, enter the room between the 
bumpers. In this room, make your way up the path to the top area, making eggs 
out of the bird head enemies along the way. At the top, collect the yellow #3 
ball.

You will see four arrows pointing at specific blocks on the ceiling. The 
trick here is to destroy ONLY those four blocks, which can be difficult due 
to the explosions that occur when eggs are thrown with Baby DK on board. 
Shoot an egg at the rightmost block to clear it easily, then aim at the 
section of ceiling below and to the right of the rightmost block in the row 
of three on the ceiling. Next, shoot to the left of the third block from the 
right. As for the leftmost block, do a dash with Baby DK to hit it safely. 
The room will shake if you did this correctly. Head back to the bottom area 
and the metal block in the ceiling will rise; jump where it used to be and a 
hidden winged cloud will appear. Shoot it to get a Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Once you find the secret flower, exit the room. Go through the bumpers to the 
left this time, and continue until you reach the pipe where lantern enemies 
jump out infinitely. Hop up the ledges above it, collecting the coins, and 
you will soon reach a Stork Stop below some transparent M blocks. Stay with 
Baby DK and jump to the upper-left ledge, then dash through the cracked block 
to the left. Climb down the vines and go through the door on the ledge below.

In this room, go left and eat the small plant enemies. When you reach the 
swinging rope, quickly eat the ball enemy on it, then swing back and forth, 
jumping onto the right ledge as the rope swings to the right. Collect some 
coins and the purple #4 ball, then drop to the lower area. Shoot eggs at the 
piranha plants to the right to clear them, then jump onto the ledge where 
they were and grab four red coins (10). Now, exit this room.

Back in the main area, go right and drop down the hole in the floor, 
collecting two more red coins (12) on the way. Flutter to the right to avoid 
the piranha plant, and jump back up the ledges above the pipe. At the Stork 
Stop, switch to Baby Mario so you can hop up the platforms that become solid. 
At the top, go right and switch back to Baby DK. Then, go through the door to 
the left.

In there, climb up the vines, jumping to avoid the piranha plants on the 
walls towards the bottom. At the top, jump onto the ledge and enter the next 
room. When you enter, go right and throw the #3 ball at its target. After 
that, exit the room and drop down the vines, then go through the left door to 
leave the room. Once you're back in the main room, use the Stork Stop and 
switch to Baby Peach.

Go right and drop down the gap to the bottom area where the Flip Block is. 
Hit it, then fly upward in the right flower's wind gust. Collect the line of 
coins on the way up, including a red coin (13), then enter the room at the 
top. In there, go left and throw the #4 ball at its target before leaving. At 
last, there is only one more place you need to visit. Drop to the lower area 
and hit the Flip Block, then fly back up via the left wind gust.

Use the Stork Stop at the top and switch to Baby Wario again. Now, go left 
and ground pound through the dirt all the way to the bottom. Once you hit the 
bottom level, go through the left bumpers and unlock the door with your Key. 
In here, begin by hopping across the stakes to the right (be careful, if you 
hit the lava you will automatically lose a life). At the far right, you will 
find the Flower.

Flower 5
--------

By this point, a giant monster will have risen from the lava. To make it 
retreat temporarily, shoot an egg or two at it. When it recedes, jump back 
across the stakes and exit/reenter the room (doing this will reset any 
platforms the monster destroyed). For the second time in this room, jump onto 
the block ledge above and quickly head upward through this room, using the 
magnet to pull in the coins, including three red coins (16). You have to be 
quick since the monster will destroy the ledges if it touches them. When you 
reach the top, go through the door leading to a new room.

Here, go right and pull the metal block to the left using the magnet. Once 
the block is positioned under the hole in the ceiling, bounce on the ball to 
reach the top ledge. You will also find the final Flower up here, next to the 
door, so be sure to grab it.

Goal Ring
---------

Enter the room on the top ledge and you will reach a huge treasure room. Make 
your way through this coin-filled room, grabbing two more red coins (18). At 
the bottom, you will find the blue #5 ball. Take it, then head back to the 
top area, using the magnet to pull down the metal platform along the way. 
When you get back to the lava room, simply jump across the platforms to the 
left and drop when you reach the left wall. Go through the door and you will 
be in the main room again.

From here, go left and down the pipe where the enemies spawn. Make eggs out 
of the enemies on the ledges in the pipe room, then go through the door at 
the bottom. Throw the #5 ball at its target and the walls will collapse, 
allowing you to reach the final door to the right. In the bottom-right room, 
collect the final two red coins (20) in each corner and defeat some more 
enemies on the ledges. Hop up the ledges and jump through the ceiling to exit 
the room. Once you end up outside, head right and through the Goal Ring to 
clear this long stage.




========================
World 4-1: Rock 'n' Fall
========================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head right while going from platform to platform. Collect the 
coins overhead as you progress, including two red coins (2) over a platform 
that will fall when you step on it. Hit the egg block to the right to refill 
your supply if needed, then continue to the right. You will see five coins 
floating overhead; jump on a Koopa Troopa to gain the height needed to 
collect them all, including a red coin (3). After that, drop to the grassy 
area below the blocks and head left to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Head right and flutter across the gap to another grassy platform. Follow the 
path to the right, then jump up to the blocks above and continue onward. When 
you reach a Paratroopa followed by a platform with five coins above it, 
bounce on the Paratroopa and a Shy Guy will swoop down ahead with a red coin. 
Take the coin (4) and collect the five coins, then as the platform sinks, 
jump and flutter to the Flower to the left.

Flower 3
--------

Land on the lower platforms to the right, where you can defeat a piranha 
plant. From there, jump to the next ledge and continue across a couple of 
large sinking blocks. You will see some coins on a ledge below a block; 
ignore them for now and jump to the block above the coins. Jump to the 
rectangular block to the right and it will sink. Collect the coins in midair, 
then jump to the lower ledge to the left and collect another red coin (5). 
Then, jump and flutter to the right ledge and defeat another piranha plant. 
From there, run and jump across the next couple of sinking platforms.

When you reach the stationary platform, go right and get past the Paratroopa, 
and land on the platform with an arrow sign on it. Go right and up several 
ledges, defeating the Paratroopas on the way up. At the top, ignore the 
arrows pointing to the right; instead, head to the left. When you reach the 
edge of a platform with a Paratroopa in front of you, and a wall blocking 
further progress, shoot an egg at the brown block below the left wall to 
clear it. Jump to that ledge and collect all the coins, including two more 
red coins (7). Now, make your way all the way to the right, jumping on the 
Paratroopas for leverage, and follow the arrow signs into a new area.

In the next area, go through the Middle Ring and continue to the right. 
Ground pound on the rightmost block and it will collapse. Continue to the 
right and ground pound the next block to get it moving. When you reach the 
lower area, go left and the block will fall by itself. Stay on it until it 
hits the ledge, then walk onto the square block directly next to it. Collect 
the red coin (8) and ride that one downward. When it hits the spikes, go into 
the alcove to the right and grab another red coin (9). Ground pound the block 
to the right of the spikes, then as it sinks, jump to the grassy platform to 
the right.

When you arrive in the next room, go right and jump across a series of 
falling blocks while avoiding the Lakitu attacks. Use the Stork Stop and 
switch to Baby Peach, then head back to the left and fly upward in the wind 
gust. On the high ledge, collect another red coin (10), then ground pound 
that block. As it sinks, run to the left and jump to collect the Character 
Coin.

Next, drop to the lower area and hop back across the blocks to the right. 
Switch to Baby DK at the Stork Stop and continue to the right. You will see 
that the next area is full of small ledges and arrows pointing downward. For 
now, make your way to the lower-left area, where you will find two pipes. Go 
down the one to the left. There, go left and pound the first block to make it 
start falling. As it drops, collect the coins and defeat the piranha plant, 
then grab the Flower to the left.

Flower 4
--------

Now, head all the way to the right, past the Koopa Troopas. At the end, shoot 
an egg at the winged cloud and hit the red switch that falls. Quickly move 
out of the way since the three blocks above you will start falling. After 
they land, jump up the steps they form. Before you go up the pipe, jump and 
flutter to the left. Up there, collect all the coins and you will find a red 
coin (11) mixed in. Once that's done, go right and up the pipe to exit the 
room. When you emerge, look above the pipes and shoot an egg directly upward 
to collect the Flower.

Flower 5
--------

From here, head to the right and jump across some more platforms, making eggs 
out of the Lakitus if you need them. On one of the platforms to the right, 
you will find several coins in formation; a red coin is in the middle (12). 
Continue to the right and you will have to deal with more falling blocks. 
Make your way to the right while dodging Lakitus and eating/spitting out 
Paratroopas. When you reach the far right ledge with an arrow sign pointing 
to the left, jump to the upper-left ledge, then right ledge to grab some 
coins and a red coin (13).

Head left across some more platforms, and jump/flutter to reach some coins in 
the air, including yet another red coin (14). Jump to the right and onto the 
platforms above, where an arrow sign points to the right. Jump to the left 
platform and defeat a piranha plant, then collect all the coins and another 
red coin (15) behind it. Now, head right to find another Middle Ring. Then, 
continue onward to the next area.

In this final area, the screen will scroll upward while blocks of various 
sizes will fall from above. The only way to go is up, and to do that you will 
have to jump onto the blocks as they fall into place. The trick to collecting 
all the coins and reaching the top without getting trapped is to jump and 
flutter a lot, and to try and squeeze through tight spaces to get to a 
certain safe point. Also, keep an eye on the top screen so you know what's on 
its way down to you. Along the way up, you will be able to collect the last 
five red coins (20), as well as the Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

When you reach the top of the block formation, the screen will stop scrolling 
upward. There will be one final block that falls onto the formation. In order 
to avoid getting trapped in this crucial part, you must jump to the upper 
blocks to the right. When the final block is in place, the screen will move 
to the right. Follow the screen to the Goal Ring and jump through it to end 
this stage.


===============================
World 4-2: High-Speed Cart Race
===============================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go right and jump into the cart to start rolling down the 
track. While you're in the cart, any enemies you hit will be killed instantly 
so you won't have to worry about taking damage. Collect the coins along the 
track, jumping to grab a red coin (1) in the air. At the end of the track, 
you will find another red coin (2). Jump to the platform above and follow the 
path to the next area.

In the next area, go right and jump over the spiked ball enemies, then hop 
into the next cart. Collect the coins, jumping to grab another red coin (3) 
along the way. When the track goes downhill, continue riding the cart while 
collecting coins. When you see coins in the air, jump to collect the red 
coins (5). At the third jump, collect the Flower in midair and then land on 
the upper ledge.

Flower 2
--------

On the upper ledge, go right and hit the M blocks if you have Baby Mario to 
get some stars and coins. Otherwise, spit the Paratroopa at the piranha plant 
to kill it, then continue to the pipe and go down it. In the dark room, ride 
the cart to the left. When it's about to drop to a lower area, jump in the 
air to collect the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue riding the cart to the left, making sure to jump before it hits the 
wall, or else your baby will go flying. Clear the Paratroopa and jump up the 
steps, collecting the coins, as well as a red coin (6) on the way. At the 
top, ride the next cart to the left. Jump with the line of coins to reach the 
upper ledge, then jump over the spiked ball enemy to find another red coin 
(7). Unlock the door with your Key to play a mini-game for extra lives.

When you're done, head downward and you will reach a split in the path. Ride 
the cart to the right, clearing all the thieves, and jumping to collect the 
coins and a red coin (8). You will also reveal a hidden winged cloud, which 
you can shoot to receive five stars. After that, head all the way left and 
defeat a thief enemy. Then, jump through the Middle Ring and continue outside 
again.

Out here, hop into the cart and ride it as it goes down the hill. Before the 
hill, jump to grab a red coin in the air (9). At the bottom of the hill, you 
will see some coins in the air; jump to collect a red coin (10) among them. 
At the top of the next hill, jump to the platform above the track and you 
will reveal a hidden winged cloud with some stars inside. Drop to the track 
below and go left, jumping to grab a red coin (11). Don't drop to the ledge 
below just yet, even though the flower looks tempting.

Head right and jump to the upper ledges, by where the egg-shooting flower is. 
Get onto the ledges above it and defeat the piranha plant, as well as a stack 
of Shy Guys. Continue right and defeat a stronger plant, then collect a red 
coin (12) and the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From where you found the previous flower, go left and jump to the upper 
ledge, then ride the cart up there. Ride it to the left as it flies in the 
air (do not jump), collecting the coins and two red coins on the way (14). 
When you land, continue to the left and jump to the ledge above the track to 
stop. Now, run back to the right and collect the coins you missed, including 
a red coin (15) and the Flower you passed up moments earlier.

Flower 5
--------

Once you grab the flower, head back to the far left area. Jump to the 
platform above the track and collect another red coin there (16). Go left and 
defeat the piranha plant, then go down the pipe to reach the next room. Out 
here, do NOT jump into the cart. Instead, jump over it and run up and down 
the track, collecting the coins. At the end, jump onto the Paratroopas and 
flutter to the high ledge to the right. Use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby 
DK, then go right and do a dash to get past each set of bumpers without 
dropping into them.

If you made it across successfully, jump to the ledges above and you will 
find a red switch. Hit it, then jump along the red platforms that appear 
until you reach the top one. Now, wait for the timer to start running out. 
Just before the third sound alerting you that time is up, jump and flutter to 
the right. When the wall of blocks disappear, land on the ledge and collect 
the Character Coin.

Once you have it, drop to the lower area and drop down at the right edge. Get 
eggs from the flower, then go left and jump above the dirt to reveal another 
winged cloud. Shoot it to get five stars. Ground pound through the dirt, then 
when you land, jump to collect the last Flower nearby.

Goal Ring
---------

From here, go right and drop through the bumpers. When you land, avoid the 
spiked ball enemies walking around and jump to receive the final four red 
coins (20). Now, go left and drop to the track below, and ride the cart along 
it. When it slows down at the end, jump to the ledge above. Hop into the 
final cart and ride it; it will lead you right through the Goal Ring at the 
end.


========================
World 4-3: In the Clouds
========================

Flower 1
--------

In this stage, there will be clouds with happy faces on them, which you can 
bounce on to reach higher platforms. Head right and jump to the Stork Stop 
platform, and switch to Baby Mario. Then, bounce up the clouds and get onto 
the cloud on a track. Collect the coins on the track, including the first 
Flower at the peak of the first hill.

Flower 2
--------

Continue riding the cloud until it reaches the end of the track. Jump to 
collect the single red coin (1) at the end, then get onto the platform to the 
right. Shoot eggs at the Shy Guy holding the red coin in the shy to retrieve 
it (2). Hop across the clouds to the right, then drop down to a much lower 
cloud. Drop to the cloud below that one, and you will see a coin under it. 
Ground pound the cloud to lower the cloud enough so you can get the red coin 
(3).

Next, bounce onto the upper-right platform and follow the arrow sign to the 
right. Eat the Shy Guy and jump onto the next batch of clouds you can bounce 
on. Head to the far right and ground pound on the cloud to receive the red 
coin (4) under it. Jump onto the happy face cloud on a track and ride it 
downward to retrieve the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

At the peak of the track, jump to the upper clouds and bounce on the highest 
one to reach the coins above. The top coin in the line is another red coin 
(5). Bounce to the platform to the right, then follow the arrows into a new 
area. There, go right and make your way through the room by following the 
arrows onto the various tracks. While you wait for the next cloud to reach 
the start of its track, ride the cloud on a circular track before it.

When you reach the second track, ride the cloud along the top portion of it. 
Instead of riding to the lower area, jump to a couple of smaller clouds to 
the right. Follow this upper path to the right and jump into the pipe to 
reach a hidden room. Use the morph bubble to become a Helicopter, then fly 
upward through this coin room while avoiding the rotating spiked pillars. At 
the top, you will find the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Exit the coin room when you're done, and drop to a cloud platform directly 
below the one you're on. Ground pound on it to collect a red coin below (6). 
Jump to the cloud on the circular track to the left, then onto the second 
main track when that cloud comes along. Ride it to the top, then jump to the 
small clouds to the right again. This time, pass the pipe and bounce on the 
clouds to reach some coins high above. Flutter to collect them all; the last 
one is a red coin (7).

Use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby DK if you haven't already, then climb 
the vine to the platform above it. Jump in the air above the vine platform 
and collect yet another red coin (8). Now, make your way all the way to the 
left, back the same way you came. To the left of the pipe, jump onto the 
circular track cloud and then to the cloud on the longer track to the left. 
Ride the cloud to the bottom, then jump to the next cloud on the third track.

At the bottom of the third track, jump to another circular cloud track and 
then onto a speedier, straight track. At the peak of the first hill, jump to 
get a red coin (9), then simply ride the track and collect the coins along 
it. At the end, you will find another red coin (10). Jump onto the clouds and 
bounce your way to the upper-right area. Head right and you will reach 
another cloud on a track. Ride the track down, right, and upward, jumping at 
the end to reach the coins and red coin (11) above. Then, go right to the 
next area.

Switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop, then jump through the Middle Ring. 
Pound on the cloud to the right to get a red coin below it (12), then jump to 
the platform with the arrow sign on it. Above that ledge is another red coin 
(13). Jump across the pipes and you will reach a segment with red blocks and 
Flip Blocks, which will make the outlined blocks become solid and the already 
solid ones become outlines. Utilize the Flip Blocks as you make your way to 
the topmost block platform. Up there, shoot down the Shy Guy holding the next 
red coin (14).

Make your way to the right along the lower portions of this platform-filled 
area. There are two more red coins (16) to be found floating in the air 
between platforms. Get to the lower-right area of the region, and you will 
find an egg block, as well as the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

From here, make use of the Flip Blocks to get onto a block platform below two 
Flip Blocks, one of which with an arrow pointing to it. From the platform 
below it, aim an egg at the right Flip Block, then as soon as you shoot it, 
jump to the right so that you land on the new platform when the block is hit. 
From there, jump to the large cloud to the right while avoiding the piranha 
plant's shots above. Defeat a regular piranha plant to the right, then jump 
through a Middle Ring and head into the right area.

In the next area, the screen will slowly scroll to the right while a Lakitu 
floats overhead, throwing spiked balls at you. Eat the seedlings flying in 
the air ahead, then when you reach the Stork Stop, switch to Baby DK. 
Continue to the right across three more cloud platforms, jumping to grab the 
coin in the air above the third one to find a red coin (17). Get across the 
cloud on the circular track, then on the platform after the batter, pound on 
the cloud to retrieve another red coin (18) below.

Shoot the piranha plant when you come to it, and bounce on the cloud platform 
to reach the higher clouds. Continue along to a cloud moving up and down on a 
track, and collect the coins on that track, including another red coin (19). 
As the screen's scrolling speed picks up, you will meet a Shy Guy carrying 
the final red coin. Take the coin from under it (20), and the Shy Guy will 
fly away. The screen will be scrolling rather quickly now, so keep up by 
bouncing on each cloud platform and fluttering to the next one. When you 
reach the final cloud, the screen will slow down. Bounce to the swinging rope 
above and hang from it to collect the Character Coin, as well as the final 
Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Drop to the platform to the right of the cloud below. Shoot an egg to clear 
the piranha plant on the pipe (you can also jump over it if you ran out of 
eggs). Up ahead, you will reach the Goal Ring, so jump through it to exit.


==============================
World 4-4: Six-Face Sal's Fort
==============================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go right and hop across the yellow platforms. When you reach 
the lava monster, wait for it to stop spewing its lava stream in the air; if 
you touch it, you die. When it stops, continue to the right, hopping across 
rotating platforms. Pick up the red #1 ball when you reach it, then throw it 
in its slot on the wall. After the metal gate opens, continue to the right 
and eat the Shy Guy. There will be three sets of yellow platforms ahead. Hop 
from the first set to the higher middle set. Jump above the platforms to get 
two red coins (2), then continue to the right.

To the right, you will come to a series of purple platforms attached to a 
gear. Hop on the right ledges to raise the block to the right. Once it's 
fully raised, jump from the highest platform on the wheel onto the block. 
Shoot the winged cloud above the block to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the first flower, drop to the ground and head right into the 
next room. There, go right and jump to the ledges above. In the upper-left 
corner, you can reveal a hidden winged cloud containing five stars. Go 
through the Middle Ring to the right, and look above to see three targets for 
the numbered balls. You don't have any right now, so drop to the bottom area 
and follow the coin line to the right.

At the Stork Stop, switch to Baby Mario, then continue right along the bottom 
path. Make eggs from the Shy Guys that spawn from the pipe, then enter the 
door to the right of it. Pick up the red #1 ball sitting there, then exit the 
room. Jump onto the pipe and then to the thin ledges above it. Hop up the 
ledges to reach the upper-left area. Ride the green platform upward, then run 
to the right past the spike pit. At the other end, collect two red coins (4) 
and the green #2 ball.

Now, quickly run back to the left as the floor rises to escape. Drop to the 
area below and head directly to the right this time. When you reach the 
upper-right ledge, go right and enter that room. Lower the two blocks by 
turning the gears (stand on the right side of the wheels). Then, hop onto the 
right block and flutter to the left one. Go left and up the first hill, then 
jump onto a ledge with a Stork Stop on it.

Switch to Baby DK and hang from the ceiling to get across the spike pit to 
the right. At the far right, drop to the ledge below and enter that room. 
Switch to Baby Mario and run to the left, and pick up the Key. As soon as you 
touch the Key, the ceiling will start to collapse, so quickly run back right 
to escape. Switch back to Baby DK when you reach the door, then exit the room 
and get back across the spike pit.

Now, continue up the path to the pipe at the top of the hill. Go through it, 
then when you arrive in the next room, flutter onto the right ledge. Go right 
and shoot an egg upward to grab the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Drop off the platform to the ledge below, and go through the door there. Pass 
through the Middle Ring and go right to some platforms. Hop from the yellow 
ones to the ledge above. Collect the coins up there and run to the left where 
you will find the next Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From where you grabbed the previous flower, jump to the ledges above and go 
left to the pipe. Go down the pipe and enter the door when you land. This 
time in the room, go right and hop on the left purple platforms to turn the 
gear, which will roll out a ledge below. When the gear stops turning, drop to 
the ledge directly below the winged cloud. Shoot the cloud to make a red 
switch fall onto the platform. Before you hit it though, go left and drop to 
the area to the left of the ledge that moved. Head left and drop onto the 
thin ledges, then jump to the stakes in the lava below. Jump to the right to 
grab the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Shoot the winged cloud above the left platform to get five stars. Then, jump 
across the ledges and head back to the right. Hit the red switch and run to 
the right along the block path, collecting two more red coins (6). At the 
other side, jump up the ledges and collect the yellow #3 ball. Quickly drop 
back down and wait for the blocks to disappear. Then, drop to the platform 
below and collect two red coins (8) above the stake to the left. After that, 
go through the door.

Back in this room, go all the way to the far left end of the room. Jump to 
the ledges above and unlock the door with your Key. In that room, use the 
Stork Stop and switch to Baby Mario if you don't already have him. Jump onto 
the M blocks and then make your way upward along the small ledges and other M 
blocks. When you reach the top, enter the door on the right side. There, jump 
onto the purple platform and ride it downward along the track. When it moves 
under the spikes on the low ceiling, duck to avoid getting hit by them. When 
you reach the winged cloud, shoot it to reveal a Flower. Shoot a second egg 
to claim it.

Boss Battle
-----------

Continue riding the platform upward along the track to the end. You will 
collect two red coins (10) as you approach the top. Once you get there, go 
down the pipe. Fall into the next room and land on the ledge below to find 
two more red coins (12), then jump to collect the Character Coin to the right 
with Baby Mario. To the left of the coin is a hidden winged cloud you can 
jump and reveal; shoot an egg at it to get five stars. When you're done, go 
through the door at the bottom to exit.

When you appear in the main room again, grab the two red coins (14) to the 
left. Then, run to the right and jump to the upper-right ledge. Go right and 
look up at the colored targets, and throw each number ball at the appropriate 
target. Doing this will raise a block to the right, so go ahead and enter 
that new room. Ride the platform on the track to the right, collecting four 
more red coins (18) along the way. At the end of the track, go through the 
door to reach a new room.

Use the Stork Stop and switch to Baby Mario if you don't already have him, 
then start running to the right. As the ceiling blocks start to fall, keep 
running and collecting the coins. One row of coins towards the end will be in 
the air, so you will have to quickly jump to get them, including the last two 
red coins (20). At the end, go through the Middle Ring, then open the red 
door. In the boss room, go up the hill and bounce to the area above, where 
you will meet Six-Face Sal.

The boss consists of six faces on a giant wheel which hangs on the top screen 
above you. The bottom half consists of a long platform of donut blocks which 
sink if you stand on them for too long, and four purple platforms which turn 
the gear when you jump on the sides. The battle will start off with one of 
the heads coming out and dropping spiked balls onto you. To attack, turn the 
wheel by hopping on the platforms, then when the head you want to attack is 
at the bottom end of the giant wheel, shoot an egg up at it.

After the first hit, there will now be multiple heads popping out to attack. 
Some heads will be red, but only one will have a pale, light color to it. 
That's the one you should be looking to attack. After several rounds of this, 
at one point having all the heads attacking you at once, the battle will end 
after you attack successfully several times.


=========================
World 4-5: Friend or Foe?
=========================

Flower 1
--------

As the brief scene will explain, Baby Bowser fell onto Yoshi and he is now 
part of your group for the time being. Baby Bowser can spit fireballs to 
quickly kill enemies and melt ice blocks in the way. From the start, go right 
and flutter over the Shy Guys on stilts. Melt the four ice blocks and take 
the lower path, defeating the piranha plants in the way, then go down the 
first pipe.

Down here, go right and collect the first red coin (1) on the left side of 
the bumpers. Then, make your way downward through this room, killing every 
single piranha plant enemy along the way. At the bottom, melt the ice so you 
can take the bottom path and fight a couple more plants. Get to the right 
side and head upward over there, defeating even more piranha plants. When you 
reach the top, you should have killed them all (you'll know since you will 
hear a chime). At that point, collect the second red coin (2) to the right of 
the bumpers. Go through the bumpers and collect the first Flower that 
appears, then jump out of this room.

Flower 2
--------

Back outside, kill the plants above and to the sides, then jump to the upper 
ledge and continue going right. When you see the Shy Guy floating overhead 
with a red coin in tow, collect eggs from the egg flower and shoot the Shy 
Guy down for its coin (3). Up ahead, you will see an arc of coins above a 
gap, and another Shy Guy above it. Shoot it down to get another red coin (4). 
Further ahead, you will see two yellow egg blocks; hit them to get a couple 
of yellow eggs. If you jumped from the blocks to the upper ledge, you could 
have shot a winged cloud for an extra life.

Follow the path leading down the stairs, shooting the winged cloud above them 
to get five stars. At the bottom, go left and drop into the pipe to reach a 
new area. Down here, you will find many torches on the walls, including some 
dark ones. If you shoot fireballs at them, they will be lit up. Follow the 
path going right while jumping over gaps and lighting up unlit torches along 
the way. When you come to the Shy Guys on stilts, jump onto one of them to 
grab a red coin in the air (5). You will also see arrows on the wall pointing 
upward into an opening. Shoot an egg straight up to collect the Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue to the right and there will be a couple of gaps to jump across. Jump 
to collect the coins above both platforms, and you will find two red coins 
(7). At the other side, follow the arrow signs into the next room. In here, 
go through the Middle Ring, then go right and drop to a lower ledge where you 
will find a ball to bounce on. Bounce to the upper ledge and shoot fireballs 
or eggs through the soft dirt to the right. Near the top area, you can find 
two red coins (9). Be sure to open a path to the Character Coin in the upper-
right corner of the room. You can only get the Character Coin with Baby 
Peach, and since there is only one Stork Stop (it's at the start of the 
level), you cannot get 100% and the coin during a single playthrough. Either 
way, the coin is here. Along the bottom area, you can find two more red coins 
(11) and the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From here, continue to the right by burning through the soft dirt. At the far 
end, drop through the bumpers and collect another red coin (12) on the way 
down. When you land, go right and drop to the area below. Continue to the 
left, jumping to grab another red coin (13) and lighting unlit torches. 
Defeat the lantern enemies you run into along the path as well. At the far 
left, jump to the ledge and collect yet another red coin (14).

Next, drop to the area below and ground pound the wooden box to get five 
stars. Before you head right to follow the arrows, jump on the ledges and 
head left instead. Go through the bumpers and you will be able to grab the 
fourth Flower at the other side.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, bounce upward on the ball to get another red coin 
(15). On the platform above, head all the way to the right, then down and 
left to the bottom area again. This time down there, go right until you end 
up outside again. Hop onto the hanging platform on the track and shoot 
fireballs to turn the gear above it (you will need Baby Bowser for this 
segment; if you don't have him, simply run up the hill to the Goal Ring right 
now). Slowly make your way up the track, shooting down any and all penguins 
along the way. You cannot eat penguins, and they will server as bumpers to 
knock you off the platform if you get hit, so try and kill them from a 
distance.

As you ride the track upward, you will come close to the goal. There is a red 
coin in the bunch closest to the goal (17). As you ride the platform to the 
left, stop when you reach the tree on the platform below. There, go left and 
collect all the coins, including another red coin (18). Also, defeat any 
penguins that fall from above at this point. When you're ready, hop back onto 
the platform and shoot fireballs at the gear to continue. When you're above 
the topmost platform, drop onto it and collect the last two red coins (20), 
as well as the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

If you need stars, you can shoot the left winged cloud above you to get some. 
You can get an extra life if you shoot the other winged cloud. When you're 
done here, run to the right and flutter off the platform. Then, run up the 
hill and jump through the Goal Ring to complete this stage.


============================
World 4-6: Slip Slidin' Away
============================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right onto the icy portion (be careful since much of this 
stage is covered with ice, and is hard to walk on). Make your way to the 
right until you reach a piranha plant. Kill it and collect the red coin (1) 
behind it, then make your way up the slippery ledges to the top area. When 
you reach the Stork Stop, switch to Baby Peach. Go right and jump up the icy 
ledges, collecting two red coins on the platforms (3). At the top, go left 
and fly upward with the wind gust to recover another red coin (4).

Continue to the right and you will come across a wide gap with wind blowing 
upward. You can flutter across it, collecting coins above and below you along 
the way. If you drop to the bottom-right area, you can collect a red coin (5) 
down there. Get to the right ledge with the arrow sign, then hop over the 
spiked ball enemy as you jump along the next couple of platforms. Defeat the 
piranha plant when you reach it, and jump across the next gap when the plant 
on the ceiling isn't dropping green balls on you. To the right, pick up 
another red coin (6), then shoot an egg to the right to collect the Flower.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the flower, shoot the winged cloud to make stairs appear. Go up 
them, then down the other side, and continue into the next area. There, jump 
through the Middle Ring and use the Stork Stop to get Baby Bowser. Go back 
down the hill and melt the ice block containing the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Next, head right and melt the middle rows of ice blocks. At the other side, 
collect the coins and you will see a ledge high above. If you look up, there 
is also a green platform and a winged cloud. Shoot a fireball at the winged 
cloud to make the platform start moving. The, ride it to the upper ledge and 
melt the ice block there to retrieve the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Drop down to the lower area and continue right until you reach an ice wall. 
Melt the top blocks, then jump onto the wall. Get to the ledge made of two 
ice blocks, then look up to see a bunch of Arrow Clouds and coins above. 
Shoot an egg upward when the Arrow Cloud is about to point to the right, and 
with luck, the egg will shoot to the right and around the room, nabbing you 
two red coins (8) in the process. It will also hit the winged cloud, which 
will fall through the bumpers and make stairs appear to the left.

Go up the stairs and drop off the left side of the high platform, then run 
all way left to the Stork Stop. This time, switch to Baby DK, then make your 
way back to the right where the stairs are. Go up the stairs again, then jump 
onto the stake. From there, jump and flutter to the high ledge to the right, 
where you can collect another red coin (10).

Climb the vine above you and jump onto the ledge, then jump and flutter to 
the left where you can reach another ledge to find another red coin (11). 
Flutter to the stake to the right, then flutter to the right ledge and climb 
the vine again. This time, head to the right. Jump to the first rope when it 
swings by, then swing and jump across two more ropes to the end. At the far 
right, drop onto the platform below and dash through a block to the right, 
then collect the Character Coin with Baby DK.

Now, swing back to the left across the ropes, and run left along the path. 
Drop to the lower area and head back to the Stork Stop in the far left. 
Switch to Baby Bowser, then make your way all the way right past the stairs 
and across the icy platforms. Along the way, jump to collect the fourth 
Flower, followed by a red coin (11).

Flower 5
--------

Up ahead, there is a piranha plant, which you can throw eggs or fireballs at 
to kill. There are a bunch of coins near the plant, one of which being a red 
coin as well (12). Defeat the plant on the pipe, then jump across the gap 
where the rope is swinging and defeat the plant on the next pipe. This time, 
go down that pipe. Here, go right and jump across the icy platforms, 
collecting all the coins along the way. There is a red coin (13) in the air 
as you jump across the platforms. At the right side, shoot a fireball at the 
ice block and collect the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Flutter to the line of coins leading downward and collect them all, including 
another red coin (14). Go up the pipe to the right to exit the room. When you 
emerge, jump to the left and grab the red coin (15) above the tree. Switch to 
Baby Mario and head right, jumping across the ice blocks and then dropping 
onto the platform below. Ignore the stakes for now and jump over the bull, 
then go right to the first M block. Hit it to sprout a short sunflower, then 
jump onto its leaves and hit the second M block to reveal a small rubber 
ball. Bounce up to a ledge with a tree on it above. Jump into the tree to get 
a red coin (16).

Next, go left and drop to the platform below, then jump from the left stake 
to the upper-left ice blocks. Return to the Stork Stop and switch to Baby DK, 
then go right and pound the left stake to get a red coin (17). Go right and 
up the leaves, then bounce on the ball to reach the high ledge. From there, 
swing/jump across the ropes to reach the Key on the left platform. After you 
have the Key, drop to the lower area and head all the way right. When you 
reach the winged cloud, shoot it to get five stars. Then, jump to the upper 
ledge and unlock the door to enter a mini-game.

Once you're done there, drop to the lower-right platform and follow the arrow 
sign to the next part. There, jump up the icy ledges and head right. After 
you pass over the first wall, drop to the small platforms below and you will 
find a red coin (18) on the lowest one. Jump to the upper ledges and continue 
heading all the way right by jumping from ledge to ledge. You will find the 
last two red coins ahead (20). After you get them, continue to the final 
platform and jump through the Goal Ring to exit this stage.


======================================
World 4-7: Teeth-Chattering Chill Zone
======================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go left and hit the egg block to fill up. Then, jump onto the 
pipe and aim an egg at the winged cloud directly above. Shoot it to reveal 
the first Flower, and jump to retrieve it.

Flower 2
--------

Head to the right until you reach the egg trap enemy. Shoot it, then jump 
across and continue right to the giant bouncy pads. You will collect the 
first red coin (1) right next to the pad in the corner. Bounce to the upper-
left area and pound the stake there to get another red coin (2). Get to the 
ledge on the right side and jump over the bouncy pad on the floor, then 
continue to the right edge of the platform. Drop into what seems to be a pit 
and you will be able to bounce on two of those pads. Go back and forth to 
collect the two red coins (4), then land on the right ledge.

Go right from here and you will see a block that crashes into the ground 
before rising up and stopping temporarily. When it stops, quickly run across 
to the other side (bounce off the pad to the left for a speed boost). Use the 
Stork Stop and switch to Baby Mario, then head upward and to the right. 
Defeat the batter and pitcher enemies before continuing onward to another 
section of the ceiling crashing into the ground periodically. Use the bouncy 
pad to get across when the blocks rise, then jump onto the pipes and then to 
the upper ledge (you can go back to the start of the stage if you go down the 
left pipe and check the hint box).

In the next area to the right, bounce on the pad to reach the upper ledge. 
Hit the egg block, then jump to the upper area and pound the stake to get a 
red coin (5). Drop to the lower ledge and go down the stairs, then bounce on 
the yellow balloon to get onto the ledges above it. Collect some coins, then 
go up and left to find the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Drop onto the thin ledges and then flutter to the coins in the air to the 
right. The middle coin is a red coin (6), so be sure to grab it. Go right and 
jump to avoid the bull, then collect the Key floating in the air. Jump over 
the right gap and shoot an egg at the left wall at an angle to collect the 
line of coins, including the red coin (7) at the left end. Bounce on the 
yellow balloon to the right to reach the locked door; unlock it with the Key 
to play a mini-game for a chance at an extra life.

Once you finish that, drop to the lower ledge and go right some more. You 
will see a small yellow balloon on a platform surrounded by pits. Shoot two 
eggs at it to inflate it, then bounce to the ledges above (ground pounding on 
the balloon helps to get good leverage in your jump). Jump up the hill to the 
left and switch to Baby Mario if you don't already have him. Then, hit the 
red switch and run to the left. Jump to the first ledge to get a red coin 
(8), then quickly jump to the next red path and go right. Jump to get another 
red coin (9) on the upper ledge, then as the timer runs out, jump and flutter 
to the left ledge. If you made it across, jump to the left and grab the 
Character Coin.

From here, jump to the tall stake below and to the left. Pound the middle 
stake and then the right stake all the way down to get two red coins (11). 
Then, make your way all the way to the right, across the gaps and yellow 
balloons, and enter a new area. In the next area, go through the Middle Ring 
and jump from platform to platform while eating/spitting out the penguins and 
avoiding the falling balloons. Ride the platforms on the tracks as you 
progress; after you ride the fast yellow platform, defeat the pitcher enemy 
below and shoot an egg upward to get the next Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Jump onto the next yellow platform to the right and ride it onward. Jump to 
the purple platform on the upper track, jumping to avoid the balloon as it 
bounces around below. Shoot an egg at the Shy Guy holding the red coin above 
to collect it (12). At the end of the purple platform's track, jump to the 
downward-moving yellow platform ahead. Jump to grab the next red coin (14) 
out of the flying Shy Guy's hands, and continue riding the platform.

Defeat the pitcher enemy at the end, then quickly head to the next ledge and 
claim the red coin (14) from the last flying Shy Guy before it flies away. If 
you miss it, you won't have a second chance at it, so be fast! After you get 
it, go right and shoot the trap enemy to stun it, then jump into the upper 
pipe to reach a new area.

When you arrive in the new section, go through the Middle Ring to set a 
checkpoint. Then, go into the room ahead and you will proceed to ski down the 
hills ahead. In the daytime portion, there are no red coins, so don't worry 
too much if you miss coins. Just concentrate on speeding down the slopes; 
you'll be able to make the jumps without manually jumping. After the second 
jump, make sure you jump to avoid hitting the rock and subsequently 
snowballing down the hill.

When you reach the nighttime portion, speed up for the first couple of jumps 
so that you clear them easily. After the first couple of jumps, the path will 
go straight and you will be able to jump to collect the fourth Flower. A line 
of coins in the air will prompt you to jump, so keep an eye out for them.

Flower 5
--------

Immediately after collecting the flower, jump over the next few rocks and 
collect the line of coins above them, including three red coins (17). After 
the rocks, continue down the hill and manually jump over a couple of wide 
gaps, then head onward to a daytime segment. Follow the path until you reach 
the arrow sign prior to a steep hill. At that point, jump to the upper ledge 
and grab the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

After you get the flower, continue sliding along the upper path. When you 
reach the gap, jump to the next part of the upper path. Stay on the upper 
path in this fashion to collect the final three red coins (20). After you get 
the last red coin, drop to the lower area and you will continue to the last 
section. When you reach the bottom, run to the right and jump through the 
Goal Ring to end this stage.


========================================
World 4-8: Castle of Big Guy the Stilted
========================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head right and jump over the Shy Guys on stilts. When you see 
a ledge high above, bounce on one of the enemies and flutter to the ledge. Go 
through the gate as it opens to the right to collect the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

After you have the first flower, drop through the bumpers and bounce on the 
Shy Guys to reach two red coins (2) over the lava pit ahead. Continue to the 
right, passing the locked door for now. Go through the opening gate and down 
the pipe at the other side to reach another room. There, jump onto the stilts 
and walk to the right with them. When you reach the red switch, hit it to 
stop the lava waterfall for a few moments. Quickly walk past with the stilts 
and continue to the far right ledge, collecting two red coins (4) on the way 
there.

Bounce on the ball to reach the upper ledge, then hit the red switch and use 
the next set of stilts to progress. Collect another red coin (5), then when 
you see another red switch on a lower ledge, drop onto the ledges to the 
right of it. Drop to the bottom area and quickly collect the second Flower as 
the lava rises.

Flower 3
--------

Hit the red switch to stop the lava waterfall once more, then use the stilts 
and continue to the right. Grab another red coin (6), then jump onto the 
ledge at the end. Jump to the top platform and push the flower vase to the 
right until it falls. Collect the Key, then jump into the pipe above to exit. 
When you emerge, grab the coins to the left, then jump to the ledge above and 
collect those coins as well. There will be two red coins (8) mixed in with 
the others here.

Now that you have the Key, go left and through the gate, then unlock the door 
and enter that room. In there, jump to the ledge with the Stork Stop and 
switch to Baby Mario. Look directly above and shoot an egg to break the dirt, 
then collect the Super Star when it falls. As Super Baby Mario, quickly go 
right and hop across the spikes. Collect two red coins (10) to the right, 
then quickly jump onto the upper-right ledge past the oil drums to collect a 
second Super Star. With its power, go right and jump onto the ledges, then 
hop over the wall lined with spikes. Follow the coin line going downward, 
then glide to the right (press B to open the cape) and collect two red coins 
(12) and a Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Land on the icy blocks below and shoot eggs at the winged clouds to form a 
bridge over the remaining spike pit. The other winged cloud contains five 
stars. Go across the bridge and jump into the Middle Ring, then go through 
the door leading to the next room. There, go right and wait for the Snifits 
to melt the ice so you can continue downward. Eat the Snifits to avoid their 
fire attacks yourself, and to refill your egg supply.

At the bottom, go right and more Snifits will melt the ice. Defeat them, then 
jump to the upper ledge by hopping onto the ice blocks. Jump onto the solid 
ledge above and shoot eggs through the dirt. Make your way to the top portion 
to reach two red coins (14) and the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

From where you found the flower, head to the lower-right corner and collect 
the Character Coin with Baby Mario. Collect the yellow eggs scattered around 
if you need more ammo, then make your way to the area below. Now, go through 
the door into the next room. In here, go left and switch to Baby Bowser at 
the Stork Stop. Head left and jump before you reach the bumpers to reveal a 
hidden winged cloud containing five stars.

Shoot a fireball at the winged cloud above the Stork Stop to make stairs 
appear. Go up them and shoot another winged cloud to get five more stars. Go 
up the second set of stairs and pass through the Middle Ring, then drop onto 
the egg-shooting flower. Shoot fireballs to melt the ice to the left, 
allowing you to grab the last Flower.

Boss Battle
-----------

This next part is going to be rather tricky to accomplish. Face the spikes to 
the right and shoot fireballs at them to break through them. Be sure to jump 
and shoot them to clear as many spikes as possible. Once you have a wide 
enough opening, flutter through to the next egg flower. Collect the red coin 
above it (15), then shoot through the next set of spikes. Flutter through the 
opening and land on the next ledge with another egg flower and red coin (16) 
to be taken. Shoot through one last wall of spikes, then get to the right 
platform and collect two more red coins (18). Also, ground pound the wooden 
box to get a Key.

Now, flutter back through the spike walls and head to the far left side of 
the room. You will see spikes in the floor to the left. Shoot eggs to break 
through them (use the egg flower to the right to replenish your supply as 
needed). Once you destroy the spikes, jump through the gap and unlock the 
door below to reach a new area. In this last room, go right and jump over the 
Shy Guys on stilts while collecting coins. You will find the last two red 
coins in here (20). At the end, go through the Middle Ring and open the red 
door to meet the boss.

You will have to face a giant Shy Guy on stilts for the boss battle. Smaller 
Shy Guys will jump out of the giant's eyes, which you can make eggs out of. 
After a few of them jump out, the giant will jump to the left, pushing you 
further back on the platform. To attack, you will need to shoot eggs at the 
feet of the stilts to knock the Big Guy backwards to the right. Repeat this 
until it falls into the lava, then ground pound its head to cause damage. 
Quickly jump out of the way to avoid taking damage when Big Guy jumps back 
onto the platform from the lava.

This battle will go much faster and easier if you use Baby Bowser for it. 
After you pound its head three times, the Big Guy will crack and the Shy Guys 
will pour out of it. The battle will then end and Baby Bowser will leave your 
group.


================================
Secret Stage 4: Hurry and Throw!
================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, go right and defeat the piranha plant, then switch to Baby 
Mario. At the edge, jump and flutter to the high ledge across the gap. Up 
ahead, shoot eggs to collect all the coins above, including three red coins 
(3). Drop to the lower area and walk into the left alcove to reveal a hidden 
winged cloud; shoot it to get an extra life. From here, continue right into 
the next area.

In this scrolling area, head through the Middle Ring then jump onto the 
platforms above the lava. When you hop onto the second platform, shoot an egg 
so that it bounces off the wall in front of you and hits the Flower below.

Flower 2
--------

Continue right to the egg block, then after the screen scrolls a bit, flutter 
onto the high right ledge and grab the red #1 ball. Take the lower path 
across a couple of stakes, then use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. As 
the screen scrolls upward, shoot an egg through the dirt directly above, then 
throw the #1 ball into its target.

From there, quickly jump to the upper-left ledge and shoot the dirt above to 
drop a rubber ball onto the ledge. Also, defeat the piranha plant (if you 
have Baby DK, it will take one hit as opposed to three eggs with the others) 
and shoot an egg above the left ledge to collect the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Bounce to the upper ledge, grabbing a red coin (4) on the way up. When you 
land, jump to collect another red coin (5) on the right side before hopping 
onto the green platform. Ride it upward, jumping to grab yet another red coin 
(6), then jump to the purple platform on its track above. Jump to the 
platform above and do a ground pound to knock the leaves off the flower 
enemy. Then, go right and drop down to collect the green #2 ball.

Next, head left as the screen scrolls in that direction. Take the lower path 
to reach another red coin (7), then when you come to a gap, shoot an egg to 
collect the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Look above and you will see a bunch of blocks moving around a track, 
surrounding the #2 target. Aim and throw the #2 ball into its target when 
it's clear, then continue moving left with the screen. Make eggs out of the 
Shy Guys that come out of the pipe. Past that, get to the left ledge and take 
the yellow #3 ball. Flutter in the air to reach a red coin (8), then follow 
the screen as it moves downward. Collect another red coin (9) on one of the 
sloping paths, then drop below and ground pound the wooden box to get five 
stars. Drop to the next ledge and avoid the spiked enemy as you collect the 
fourth Flower to the right.

Flower 5
--------

Go left and jump to grab a red coin (10), then continue downward. When you 
reach the bottom platform, there will be two blocks of dirt you can pound 
through. Shoot an egg through the right pile to open up a hole, then ground 
pound through the left pile to collect three red coins (13). Go through the 
entire loop again, then when you get to this part, wait for the spiked ball 
enemy to fall onto the platform above the target. This time, throw eggs at it 
so that it falls into the right pit you made before. As you move downward, 
the spiked ball enemy will walk on the floor switch on the right ledge. Drop 
to the bottom area and throw the #3 ball directly upward into its target.

If you are successful, the gate above the door to the right will open. When 
the screen scrolls over, drop into the now-open alcove and enter that room. 
Out there, go through the Middle Ring and use the Stork Stop to switch to 
Baby Peach. Head to the right, fluttering from ledge to ledge. Use the 
Paratroopas to bounce to the upper ledges, while avoiding the spinning fire 
pillar.

When you reach the ledge with the Bullet Bill cannon, bounce on the 
Paratroopa and flutter above to collect two red coins (15). Bounce on it 
again to reach the upper-right ledge. Up there, stand on the right edge and 
look below to spot the last Flower. Shoot an egg to retrieve it.

Goal Ring
---------

Bounce on the next two Paratroopas to gain some air above the spinning fire 
pillars. Then, flutter your way to the right and downward, following the coin 
line and collecting the last five red coins (20) along the way. At the end of 
the coin line, land on the platform and jump through the Goal Ring to end 
this stage.


==================================
Extra Stage 4: Let There Be Light!
==================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right until you reach the opening in the ceiling where 
spiked balls are falling. Shoot an egg directly upward at the plant on the 
ceiling and you will get a red coin (1). As a note, if you want to light up 
the unlit torches, simply have Yoshi eat a torch; he will then be able to 
spit fire three times before it runs out. You are not required to light the 
torches to proceed, however.

Continue to the right and you will reach some spike pits. When you reach the 
first one with spiked balls falling from above, shoot an egg at the plant on 
the ceiling to collect another red coin (2). Hop across the spikes by jumping 
on the block that rises and falls, then jump to a well lit ledge to the 
right. Stand directly below the plant on the ceiling and shoot an egg upward 
to get two red coins (4). Then, drop to the lower ledge to the right and 
collect the first Flower on it.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the first flower, flutter over some more spikes, then open the 
door ahead. In the dark room below, head to the left and make eggs out of the 
Bullet Bills. Go down the pipe to the far left and hit the red switch inside 
to start up a wind gust blowing upward. First switch to Baby DK and shoot an 
egg at the piranha plant in the corner to make four red coins (8) and the 
second Flower appear in the room.

Flower 3
--------

Once you collect everything, switch to Baby Peach and fly out of this room. 
Fly upward in the gust coming out of the pipe, collecting a red coin at the 
peak (9). On the upper platform, eat a torch and shoot its flames at the icy 
block on the ceiling to be able to collect the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

Go right and drop off the platform, collecting another red coin (10) on the 
way down. Pass the Stork Stop and drop to the door you came in through 
before. Now, head right and up some steps. Jump across the Bullet Bill 
cannons and you will reach a couple of ice blocks atop a spike pit. Jump and 
flutter from them to reach the coins above the spikes. Among the coins are 
two more red coins (12). When you reach the far right platform, go through 
the Middle Ring, then go down the pipe.

In the next room, drop onto the ice blocks, then onto the moving platforms 
below. Hop across two sets of green platforms, then onto a couple of rotating 
purple platforms while avoiding the spiked pillar. Get onto the green 
platforms in the lower-right area, and collect a red coin (13) above the 
spikes. Then, make your way to the upper-right area by jumping to the upper 
set of green platforms from the first set of purple platforms. From there, 
drop to the green platforms below and collect another red coin (14) above the 
spikes as a platform is rising up so you don't die.

When you get a chance, hop on the next set of green platforms that rotate 
among the spiked pillars. There is a red coin (15) you can find by collecting 
the coins close to the center. Get to the right side and you will find purple 
platforms moving in a square formation. Jump from the purple platforms and 
flutter to the high ledge to the right of the door (ignore the door). Flutter 
to a block to the right, then drop down along the coin line, fluttering to 
the right along the coins. Grab the red coin as you fall (16), then land on 
the block at the bottom. Jump and flutter across the icy blocks, then grab 
the fourth Flower at the far right before going up the pipe.

Flower 5
--------

In the room you arrive in, you will see Chomp Rocks on thin pillars to the 
left. Stand on the side of the rock to roll it off the pillar, collecting the 
red coin (17) on the first pillar. To safely get to the second pillar, you 
will have to jump and trigger the hanging plant from above to come down, then 
quickly shoot an egg at the plant above to kill it to the left. Now that it's 
safe, defeat the piranha plant to the left by eating the spiked balls it 
spits out to gain more eggs, then shoot the eggs to attack.

Head to the right and bounce on the red switch (by bounce, I mean that you 
must hit it then quickly jump to avoid falling onto the spikes). Run right 
and up along the red platforms, then follow the coin path to the left and 
jump to the upper area. Once there, go through the Middle Ring and switch to 
Baby Mario at the Stork Stop. Then, head down the icy block steps to the 
right.

Uou will find a line of coins in the air with a hanging plant above them. 
Trigger the plant, then shoot an egg upward to get the red coin at the top of 
the coin line (18). To proceed, jump up the steps to the left, then jump and 
flutter to the next icy ledge to the right. Head right and flutter to the 
next ledge of icy blocks. Eat the spiked balls being spit out by a piranha 
plant on a pillar, then shoot eggs to defeat it.

Jump onto the pillar and you will see a Snifit on a small spike-filled ledge 
shooting flames. Jump onto it to gain leverage, then flutter to the right and 
bounce onto the next Snifit. Land on the platform on the track and ride it 
downward, eating the Snifits to your right. At the bottom, shoot an egg at 
the coins directly below the spikes to get a red coin (19). Also, make sure 
you shoot an egg to the right on the way back up to get the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Ride the platform to the top half of the track, where you will find the last 
red coin (20). Go around the track a second time, then when you end up on the 
right side, jump to the platform on the next track. Ride it to the right, 
then jump upward to reach the exit pipe. Outside, go right and jump through 
the Goal Ring to exit the level.


===================================
World 5-1: Rompin', Stompin' Chomps
===================================

Flower 1
--------

Upon entering this stage, you will find that the screen scrolls to the right 
once again. There will be plenty of giant Chomps bouncing through the area, 
so try not to rush ahead since you may end up getting hit by something you 
didn't see coming! Anyway, go right and hit the egg block to fill up, then 
shoot an egg up at the line of coins in the air to get a red coin (1) and 
five stars from the winged cloud.

Go up the hill and eat the hopping enemies, and avoid the giant Chomps that 
bounce up and down the hill ahead. There will be another long line of coins 
pointing to a winged cloud. The red coin is at the top of the line next to 
the cloud (2), which contains five more stars. Up ahead, there will be three 
Chomps bouncing up and down. Between the first two, you can jump to retrieve 
a red coin (3). Hit the yellow and red egg blocks ahead, then look up to see 
a Shy Guy swoop down with a red coin in tow. Shoot it before it flies away to 
grab the coin (4).

Hop to the next platform and continue right, avoiding the next batch of 
bouncing Chomps. Ground pound the wooden box you come across to get five more 
stars. As the screen scrolls downward, avoid the Chomps bouncing from both 
sides and shoot the Shy Guy carrying a red coin overhead to get its coin (5). 
Up ahead is a second Shy Guy you can shoot to get its red coin as well (6). 
For the next part, watch out for the birds dropping bombs from above. Try to 
stay to the right since a Chomp will fall from behind to make a giant hole in 
the platform, which can be an instant kill if you're not careful.

Make your way to the right, avoiding the bombs and the Chomps, until you hit 
the solid wall. When the Chomp plows through the floor, drop to the lower 
area and hit the egg block to replenish your supply. To the right of the egg 
block, look up and shoot an egg through the dirt to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Continue to the right, making eggs out of the bird heads that will fall onto 
you when another Chomp comes crashing down. Stay to the right and head upward 
when the chance emerges. Jump up the ledges, then watch the Chomp as it 
bounces down the hill. Run/jump up the path when you have a chance, and you 
will see a line of coins in the air. Shoot an egg at them to collect the 
coins, as well as a Flower at the upper-left end of the coin line.

Flower 3
--------

When you get to the top of the hill, you will see three Shy Guys flying 
above. One of them has a red coin, so shoot it down to claim the coin (7). 
Then, go right to the next area. In this non-scrolling segment, jump through 
the Middle Ring, then switch to Baby Peach at the Stork Stop. Head to the 
right and jump over the gap onto a platform in the middle. When you see the 
Chomp in the background jump in the air, flutter back to the left to avoid 
getting crushed by it. Now, drop into the pit and fly upward in the wind gust 
to collect all the coins in the pit, including two red coins (9). Also, fly 
upward in the air to grab two more red coins among the mix (11).

Continue going up the hill, jumping over the spiked ball enemies along the 
way. After you pass a Bullet Bill cannon on a hill, go right and a Chomp will 
crash through the ground again. Use the wind gusts from the pit to collect 
all the coins in and above the pit. When you reach the Stork Stop at the 
other side, use it to switch to Baby DK, then get out of the way before a 
Chomp crushes the platform it's on.

Jump to the area below the vine, and when the Chomp crushes the wall to the 
right, shoot an egg into the alcove to collect the third Flower. Also, if you 
didn't have a chance to use the Stork Stop just a couple moments ago, use it 
here to get Baby DK.

Flower 4
--------

Climb the vine and jump to the upper-right ledge, making sure to grab the red 
coin (12) on the ledge. Jump over the Koopa Troopa and grab the coins in the 
air to the left of the next vine, including a red coin (13). For this next 
part, jump/flutter from vine to vine, collecting the coins and avoiding the 
falling Chomps. You will be able to grab another red coin (14) by jumping 
between the vines to cross the area. At the end, jump across a few blocks 
that sink when you land on them, and continue into the right area.

In the next area, use the Stork Stop to get Baby Mario, then jump through the 
next Middle Ring. Hit the two yellow egg blocks, then head right and shoot an 
egg through the soft dirt. Then, drop to the lower path and head right. Jump 
over the small gap and grab the red coin in the air (15); it's the second 
coin from the ground. Then, quickly shoot an egg to skim the dirt above the 
Character Coin so you can collect it and get out of the way out of the Chomp. 
It should be noted that the Chomp moves at about the same speed as you, so if 
you are rushing across the platforms, you may have a more difficult time.

A good way to do this would be to hold the target cursor horizontal and 
facing the right (press Y, then press X to hold the cursor), that way you can 
already have a good shot set up to grab the coin. It should also be 
considered that you return later to get the coin if you want a perfect score 
on the first run.

Jump to the moving platforms to cross the gap and get ahead of the Chomp, 
making sure to grab the red coin (16) in the middle of the formation above 
the green platform. After you cross a series of moving platforms, you will 
come to a dirt platform with a flower on the lower path and coins above. Take 
the lower path to get the Flower.

Flower 5
--------

As soon as you grab the flower, shoot an egg directly upward to grab the red 
coin (17) in the middle. Continue to the right, jumping to grab some coins 
and a red coin (18) among a group in the air. Run and jump across the next 
several platforms, jumping/fluttering through one last coin group in air to 
get a red coin (19). When you reach the solid platform to the right, the 
Chomp will crash into it before falling into the abyss. Turn around and shoot 
an egg to get the last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Bounce on the ball to reach the upper ledge, and hit the yellow egg block 
there. Shoot an egg upward to hit the Shy Guy and collect the final red coin 
(20). After you have it, simply go right and jump into the Goal Ring to exit 
this highly frustrating stage.


=========================
World 5-2: Goonie Heights
=========================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head to the right across several gaps and tilting platforms, 
eating the enemies along the way. After the Stork Stop, go up the hill and 
jump to collect the red coin (1) above the pit. Hop across several more 
tilting platforms ahead and make eggs out of all the enemies you meet. Shoot 
the winged cloud when you reach it to get five stars, then jump on the bird 
flying from the right. Use it to reach the high ledge above (alternatively 
you can bounce on an enemy below and flutter your way up). Shoot an egg 
through the dirt on that ledge to get the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

After you get the flower, quickly clear the bird head enemies and head left. 
Jump to collect two red coins (3), then go down and right to exit. Drop down 
to the platform below and then jump to the tilting platforms to the right. 
Collect the coins above them, including four more red coins (7) at the top of 
each coin line. At the other side, continue right into the next area.

There, go through the Middle Ring and head right to a pit with small ledges 
scattered above it. There are plenty of birds flying around as well, which 
you can jump on to reach higher areas. Take the lower path and collect the 
coins in the air; among them are two red coins (9). Go back to the left and 
take the upper path, then jump to collect the coins and a red coin (10) 
leading to the Stork Stop platform.

Switch to Baby DK, then go down and to the right to find a maze in the 
ground. Dash through the dirt to reach the bottom area. Along the way, there 
is a hidden winged cloud to be revealed, which will yield five stars if you 
shoot it. At the bottom, jump over the enemy to reach the Character Coin, as 
well as the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Jump to the ledges above to get out, then head up the hill above. Hop onto 
one of the flying birds to reach the first ledge above the pit, then jump 
across to the ledge with a rubber ball on it. Bounce upward and hop onto a 
high-flying bird, and ride it to the right (you'll have to hop up and down to 
keep from sinking). To the right, jump to the high ledge and head up the 
hill, grabbing two red coins at the top (12).

Go down the hill to the right and shoot an egg to knock the enemy aside, then 
collect another red coin (13). Drop off the right edge to the area below, 
then go left and bounce on the bird heads to reach the two red coins (15) 
above. After you get them, go right and jump onto the platform below with a 
ball on it. Look above and bounce upward when you spot a bird flying to the 
right, then ride the bird to the upper-right ledge.

Land on the ledge and go right, jumping onto the platform above the Shy Guys. 
Jump and flutter to collect the third Flower in the air to the right.

Flower 4
--------

After you grab the flower, go right into the following area. In there, head 
right until you reach the Stork Stop. Switch to Baby Mario and continue up 
the path to find a pipe. Jump from it to the first donut block ledge above. 
Jump to the left across a few platforms, and you will see an arrow pointing 
upward and to the right. Before you go that way, flutter to the far left 
platform and jump above it to get two red coins (17). Go right and use one of 
the flying birds to reach the solid ledge to the right.

Use another bird to get to the next donut platform above. From there, look to 
the left and hop onto a bird flying to the right. When you reach the far 
right, jump onto the donut platform there and collect two more red coins 
(19). Flutter to the left and land on the next donut platform, then head to 
the left side. Jump and flutter to the left to collect the fourth Flower in 
midair.

Flower 5
--------

Now, make your way to the top area by using the birds to gain lift. When you 
reach the top ledge, go up the pipe to reach a new area. Go through the 
Middle Ring there and continue right. Eat the Shy Guys and head right until 
you reach the platforms above another pit. Hop across the platforms and use 
the flying birds to reach the highest ledge with an arrow sign on it. Flutter 
to the right or use a bird to fly along, collecting the final red coin (20) 
as well as the coins surrounding it.

Get across the next wide gap by using the birds for help. At the other side, 
continue onward while jumping over any enemies in your way. When you reach 
the spike pit, hop onto a bird flying to the right so you can cross the gap 
safely. You will find the final Flower floating above the spikes, so be sure 
to jump and grab it.

Goal Ring
---------

After you grab the flower, simply enjoy the ride to the far right, eating any 
other birds that may get in your way. When you reach the arrows pointing 
downward, drop to the platform below and head right to the Goal Ring.


=====================================
World 5-3: Spear Guys' Village Found!
=====================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, head right and eat the various Spear Guys along the way. When 
you reach the yellow platform on a track, jump over it and enter the room to 
the right. In there, go up the stairs and eat the Spear Guys on the upper 
platform. Collect the coins, as well as a red coin (1) to the far right, then 
jump to the top level and collect a second red coin (2). Go back down and 
exit the room. Now, ride the yellow platform as it speeds down the track. At 
the bottom, eat the Spear Guy and head right across a platform on a track. 
Before you jump onto the green platform and ride it along its track, go right 
and enter the room. Head to the top area and collect the first Flower inside.

Flower 2
--------

Once you have the flower, go back down to the bottom and exit the room. Back 
outside, shoot the winged cloud above to get five stars, then flutter onto 
the green platform. Ride the track to the right and upward, collecting a red 
coin (3) shortly into your ride. When you start going upward, jump to the 
right ledge and eat a Spear Guy, then collect the Key and two red coins (5) 
above. Wait for the platform to come back around on the track, then continue 
going upward. At the top of the track, go left and collect another red coin 
(6), then shoot an egg into the upper-left corner to get a Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Ride the track downward along the left side of the room, collecting more 
coins and another red coin (7). Ride the platform around yet another time, 
this time getting off on the upper-right ledge. There, unlock the door and 
enter the room. In that room, head up the stairs, being careful not to get 
stabbed by the Spear Guys to the side. At the top, collect the coins to the 
left, including a red coin (8). After that, go down the stairs on the right 
side of the room and exit through the pipe.

Outside, go right and jump to the Middle Ring, then go through the bumpers. 
Ride the yellow platform up the track, then jump onto the ledge with the 
arrow sign. A bunch of blocks will start to fall from the ceiling; at this 
point, you'll have to jump onto the first block and head back and forth while 
jumping to reach the top area. From the highest block, jump onto another 
yellow platform on a track and ride it to the right. Jump to the purple 
platform ahead, and then onto the wheel of green platforms. Hop along the 
platforms on the right side to roll it up the track. Collect a red coin on 
the way up (9).

At the top of the track, head right and jump into a pipe to reach the next 
area. There, head left and defeat the dancing Spear Guys on the way down. 
Avoid the platform on the track for now; instead continue to the left and 
jump to grab a red coin (10) in the middle of a bunch of coins. Head right 
and ride the green platform upward on the track, jumping to avoid the spear 
below. Jump onto the red platform, then shoot eggs at the checkered blocks to 
flatten them into moving platforms.

Ride the green platform to the right, then jump onto the checkered moving 
platform. Hop onto the one moving up and down, and shoot an egg directly 
upward to get two red coins (12). Shoot another egg at the third checkered 
block, then jump onto that platform and head right. If you want to reach the 
high room to the left, eat a Spear Guy and spit it onto the upper ledge above 
the arrow sign, then bounce on it and flutter high enough to reach the ledge. 
Anyway, jump to the right ledge and continue all the way right, jumping and 
fluttering across the ledges while avoiding being stabbed from below. At the 
end, collect a red coin (13) and ride a yellow platform upward to a new area.

Here, ride the platform to the very top, then jump to grab a red coin (14). 
Drop down and pass through the Middle Ring, and jump up the ledges to reach 
the rotating platforms. Jump to the upper platform and use the Stork Stop to 
switch to Baby DK. Drop to the lower area and go right to the gap, then swing 
across on the rope. Just before the end, jump so that you have the momentum 
to reach the upper ledge. When you land, go into that room.

In this room, first switch to Baby Mario and go up the stairs. Hit the five M 
block outlines to make them solid, then go back and switch to Baby DK. Jump 
onto the solid blocks and dash to the left, breaking the wooden box on the 
ledge. Behind it, you will find the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

After you have the flower, go back down the stairs and switch to Baby Peach. 
Then, exit the room. Back out here, drop below the vine and flutter under the 
piranha plants to grab a red coin (15). Head to the right while flying in the 
wind gusts, and make your way to the upper-right area. At the top, land on a 
ledge and go right to collect the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Drop through the bumpers and fly downward and to the left. There is another 
red coin to be found under a bunch of piranha plants in the air (16). After 
you get it, make your way to the far left and land on the platform near where 
the rope is hanging. Head up the hill and jump up the ledges to the top area, 
then switch to Baby Mario at the Stork Stop.

Go right and make your way upward by jumping on the M block platforms while 
avoiding the Spear Guys to the left. At the top, go right and pound the 
stake, then defeat the Spear Guys to the left. Collect the coins between the 
two thin platforms, one of which being a red coin (17). To the right, you 
will find a taller stake with dancing Spear Guys below and a bunch of coins 
above. Collect the coins to find another red coin (18), then pound the stake 
and eat the Spear Guys. In the alcove to the right, you will find the level's 
final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Head back to the left and use the Stork Stop once again. Switch to Baby Peach 
and go up the ledges on the left side. At the very top, avoid the Spear Guy 
on the left ledge trying to stab you, and jump to collect a red coin (19). 
Eat the Spear Guy on the right ledge, then jump over and make your way all 
the way right through the next part. Defeat any dancing Spear Guys or make 
eggs out of them if you want. Just before the arrow sign, you will find three 
coins in the air; the middle one is the last red coin in disguise (20).

Jump over the patches of grass next to the sign, since there is a thief 
hiding in there who will steal your baby! Before you jump into the Goal Ring, 
run all the way to the right. At the far right, enter a room and collect the 
Character Coin at the top. Once you have it, exit the room and head back to 
the Goal Ring to complete the stage.


============================================
World 5-4: The Fort of Moltz the Very Goonie
============================================

Flower 1
--------

Start off by going right and clearing the Koopa Troopas, then replenishing 
your egg supply via the egg flower. Continue to the right along the lower 
path until you reach the second gap in the path. At that point, wait for the 
Paratroopa to fly downward, then bounce on it to collect the red coin (1) 
below and land on the ledge again safely. Make your way up the platforms, and 
head right to a green platform above the spikes.

Ride it to the right, then collect the Key next to the pipe and ride the 
green platform back to the left. Go down and ride the purple platform to the 
locked door, then go inside to play a mini-game. After it's done, jump to the 
green platform to the right of the door. Ride it to the right, collecting a 
red coin (2) and the first Flower along the way.

Flower 2
--------

At the end of the track, go down the pipe to reach a new area. There, go 
right and jump onto the green platform. Ride it to the left, ducking under 
the low wall, and jumping to collect a red coin (3). Ride the track to the 
right, then downward and left. You will see a gap below the track; ignore it 
for now and continue to the left. Jump to grab a red coin (4), then duck down 
as you pass below the low wall. As soon as you reach the opening above, jump 
to the upper ledge and grab the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Wait for the platform to move along the track, then drop onto it as it passes 
to the right. At the end of the track, go through the Middle Ring, then run 
through a few bumpers to reach a new track. As the platform moves to the 
left, jump onto the ledges above the spikes and run/jump to the donut blocks 
to the far left. Stand on them so they sink, allowing you to grab the red 
coin (5) below. As they sink, jump to the platform to the right and collect 
another red coin (6), then drop onto the moving platform and ride it below.

At the bottom, jump to collect a red coin (7), then ride the platform up the 
left side of the pit, while still avoiding the Bullet Bills. Once you reach 
the top, go left and onto the far left platform as the moving one heads 
downward again. Drop down the ledges, collecting the coins, then get back 
onto the moving platform at the bottom. Continue to the right on it, then 
jump when you reach two coins in the air surrounded by spikes to find a red 
coin (8). Just before you reach the end of the track, jump to the right brown 
platform and collect yet another red coin (9).

Drop to the ledge below and hit the egg block if you want, otherwise jump 
onto the next platform on a track. Duck below the spikes as you move to the 
right and left, netting yourself a red coin (10) in the process. When you 
move downward, you will see a line of coins to the left; shoot an egg as you 
move to the right to collect a red coin (11). As you ride downward again, you 
will see some soft dirt in the ground below. Drop off the moving platform and 
ground pound to the area in the middle with three eggs. Stop there and shoot 
to the right to get a Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From the flower alcove, shoot through the dirt to the left and you will find 
the rest of the vertical track. Shoot through to the left ledge, then jump 
over and shoot upward to drop a Stork Stop into your reach. Switch to Baby 
Peach, then hop onto the red platform and ride it downward. When you reach 
the area with the balloons and the wind blowing upward, collect the coins you 
come across. If you get hit by a balloon, simply fly around since the wind 
will keep you afloat. There is a red coin (12) to be found here as well. When 
you're done, land on the pipe below and go down it.

In the next room, go right and through the Middle Ring. At the end of the 
path you will see blocks moving up and down above the spikes. Look at how 
each section moves, so that you don't end up getting crushed between the 
ceiling and a block. When you make it to the other side safely, use the Stork 
Stop and switch to Baby DK. Go down the steps to the right and drop down to 
the chains below the platform. Climb to the left, then jump to the swinging 
rope. As it swings to the right, jump to the ledge below the steps to grab 
the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Head right and pass through the bumpers, then hit the red switch. This will 
cause blocks to fall from above, covering the spikes so you can pass. As soon 
as the blocks start hitting the spikes, you need to really hurry to the right 
side. There are two red coins to be found from where you begin until you 
reach the right wall (14). Once you get to the right side, make your way 
upward and to the left even more quickly since you'll have less time to make 
it through. Once you make it to the left alcove, wait until the blocks fall 
so you can head right across the top of them.

When you reach the bumpers, aim upward and shoot the rightmost coin to get a 
red coin (15). Then, pass through and make your way downward along the 
ledges. Use ground pounds to stun all the piranha plants along the way so 
that you don't risk losing points. At the bottom, go down the pipe to reach 
the next area.

When you land below, go through the Middle Ring, then stand on the gray 
platform and it will start moving. This kind of platform will move if you are 
on it, and stops when you get off. Ride it to the right and grab a red coin 
(16), then duck down as it moves to the left so you don't get hit by the 
spikes. When you reach the Stork Stop, switch to Baby Peach, then continue 
riding along.

As you move to the right after the drop, jump when you reach the second small 
ledge to retrieve another red coin (17). As you move downward and to the 
left, avoid the Paratroopas and jump to collect yet another red coin (18). 
When you move downward, stop at the bottom and drop to the lower area, while 
grabbing the Character Coin on the way down. At the bottom, hit the red 
switch and fly upward via the wind gust. Continue riding the platform to the 
right, ducking under the spikes. At the end, grab the red coin (19) before 
falling to the platform below.

Go left and step on the next platform atop the track to activate it. This 
kind of platform only moves when you're not on it, so you'll have to flutter 
a lot to make progress. As it moves downward and to the right, flutter over 
the small spike patches in the air to get past. After you jump over the two 
hurdles and the track leads downward, jump to a second track to the right. 
Hop on the platform as it moves downward, then to the left, grabbing the 
fifth Flower on the way.

Boss Battle
-----------

Continue to the left and downward until you reach the end of the track. Then, 
switch the screen view so the action is on the bottom screen and you can see 
what's above you. Stand below the left track and shoot an egg directly upward 
to nab the final red coin (20). Now, drop to the lower area and you will see 
three pits of dirt. You can pound through any of them (the left one has 
enemies you can crash down upon to get an extra life). At the bottom, go down 
the pipe to reach the next area.

Here, go through the Middle Ring and enter the room to the right. You will 
then blast off in a rocket to the skies above. To speed up while in the 
rocket, press/hold the B button. Make your way upward by following the coins 
and swerving around the planets and other enemies in rockets. When you make 
it to the top area, go through the portal to land at the final area. Go right 
and through the Middle Ring, then switch to Baby Peach if you don't already 
have her. Then, go through the red door to meet Moltz the Very Goonie.

The battle against this giant bird takes place while falling. It also takes 
place across both screens, which leaves a lot of room to maneuver around. It 
is required for you to keep fluttering in order to stay afloat, otherwise you 
will die if you fall too far. Stay to the sides and flutter around on the 
bottom screen until the boss floats to the bottom screen as well. Then, get 
above it and ground pound to attack.

After you attack, the boss will fly off into the distance, while numerous 
enemies on rockets rain down on you. Stick to the sides to avoid getting hit 
by them as they fall. When the big boss appears again, repeat the same 
pattern as before to attack. When you are above the boss, be careful of 
feathers being shot up at you, as well as enemy rockets coming from below. 
Once you hit it three times, the battle will end.


===================================
World 5-5: The Cave That Never Ends
===================================

Flower 1
--------

In this area, head right as the screen scrolls in that direction. Drop down 
to the lower ledges while avoiding the birds dropping bombs from above. When 
you reach the bouncing Chomp, jump to collect the red coin below it when it's 
safe to do so (1). When you reach the second Chomp, do the same to get the 
next red coin (2). Head right until you reach the green piranha plant; eat 
the spiked balls it spits out to make eggs, then use the eggs to defeat the 
plant. Kill a second piranha plant next to it, then flutter to collect a red 
coin above them (3), as well as the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Up ahead, shoot an egg upward to clear the dirt, dropping a rubber ball to 
the ground. Go right and use the Stork Stop as soon as it appears to get Baby 
DK, then bounce on the ball to reach the upper area. Climb along the ceiling 
vines and you will reach a Shy Guy carrying a red coin. Shoot an egg to 
collect the coin (4), then jump across the longer vines above the lava. Eat 
the flying Shy Guy and take its red coin (5) ahead.

Quickly jump to the ground to the right of the hole in the floor. Shoot an 
egg to the right to get another red coin (6), then drop into the pit. Collect 
a red coin (7) on the way down, then go through the Middle Ring to the right. 
Jump onto the Chomp Rock's side so it falls off the pillar, then collect yet 
another red coin (8). Flutter across the next two gaps, being careful not to 
be eaten by the floating piranha plants.

You will see a few ledges above you can jump on. Use the Stork Stop to switch 
to Baby Mario, then quickly drop down and go right. Flutter to grab a red 
coin (9), then drop down to the ledge below. Wait until the screen scrolls 
downward a little, then drop into the pit below and land on the green 
platform. Flutter to the left ledge and hit the green Flip Block, then 
flutter your way downward. Land on the red Flip Block to the right of the red 
spike platform, then shoot an egg at the piranha plant below and to the 
right. Land on that ledge, then flutter to hit the red Flip Block, and 
collect a red coin below it (10).

Drop onto the green platform below and flutter your way downward after the 
screen scrolls a bit more. Land on the red Flip Block to the left, and shoot 
an egg to the green Flip Block on the right side. Drop to the green platform 
and collect another red coin in the air (11). From there, drop down to the 
red platform below, then shoot an egg to defeat the piranha plant to the 
left.

When the screen starts scrolling to the left, jump onto the ledge where the 
plant was. Head left as the screen does, and push the Chomp Rock to the left, 
crushing the enemies. Jump to collect a red coin overhead (12), then jump 
from the rock to reach the high ledge, where you will find the next Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Push the rock onto the winged cloud below to make five stars pop out, then 
continue going left along the upper path. Head up the hill and flutter across 
the lava ahead, collecting another red coin (13) above the lava. When you 
reach the gap in the floor, jump to the other side and shoot an egg at the 
dirt above to make a Stork Stop fall. Continue past it along the upper path, 
then go down a couple of small ledges to find the Character Coin.

As soon as you grab the coin, jump out of the alcove and run to the right, 
and drop to the lower area. Flutter to the left ledge and continue onward on 
that platform. Collect the yellow and red eggs, then trigger the trap enemy 
to come out. Shoot it with an egg to stun, then jump over it to get past. 
Farther along, go through the Middle Ring and you will come to a change in 
scrolling direction. Flutter over the gap while avoiding the spiked pillars 
below, then jump up the ledges as the screen scrolls upward.

Along the way to the top area, shoot the spiked ball enemy off the ledge so 
you can jump onto it. Further up, shoot eggs at the piranha plant to kill it. 
Defeat another piranha plant to the right, then flutter to the left to grab a 
red coin (14). Jump onto the mushroom platform when the Chomp is in the air 
to find another red coin (15). As the screen scrolls to the right, take the 
lower path to the right, where you will find a Flower.

Flower 4
--------

As soon as you grab the flower from the alcove, back out and jump to the 
upper ledge. Run up the hill when the Chomp is in the air to avoid getting 
hit. At the top, go right and you will see a ball on the ground. Flutter to 
the right to grab a red coin (16), then bounce on the ball to reach a high 
ledge with a Stork Stop on it. Collect a red coin on the way up (17), then 
flutter to the right after the screen scrolls a bit and grab another red coin 
(18). Drop to the lower area and head right, making eggs out of the Shy Guys.

You will see a Chomp Rock trapped in the ceiling; shoot the dirt below it to 
knock the rock loose. Push it to the right, killing the enmeies along the 
way. You will see an arrow pointing diagonally upward at a point on the left 
wall. Quickly line up with the arrow and shoot an egg at the left wall; with 
luck it will ricochet, grabbing you a red coin (19) and the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Continue rolling the rock to the right until you reach the piranha plant. 
Kill the plant with the rock, then roll it onto the floor switch. This will 
open up a gate in the ceiling above. Jump to the upper ledge and shoot an egg 
upward through the opening to collect the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Head to the right as the screen scrolls and you will have to jump across 
three spike platforms that flip around every couple seconds. Jump on the 
first platform when it's safe, then quickly jump and flutter above as it 
flips. Land on the next platform, then jump to the previous one when it's 
safe to do so. Cross the pit in this fashion, then continue right at the end. 
When you reach the next pit, shoot an egg at the red Flip Block, then jump 
across the red platform as the screen allows you to.

At the other side, you will find a bunch of coins; do not rush to collect 
them just yet. Go forward to trigger the hanging plant above to come down, 
then quickly jump back to the left. When the plant retracts, collect the 
coins, including the final red coin (20). From there, jump to the right ledge 
and continue through the Goal Ring to reach the end of the cave.


================================
World 5-6: Find the Number Ball!
================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, go right and into the pipe to enter a cave. When you land, go 
right and jump over the lava sections, collecting coins along the way. There 
are two red coins (2) to be had further to the right. At the end, ground 
pound the gray block, which will start sinking. When you have an opening, 
drop off the left side and get under the block. At the very bottom, go left 
and collect a bunch of coins, as well as two more red coins (4).

Next, bounce on the ball to reach the high ledge above (the one with the 
spiked ball enemies). Shoot the winged cloud there to get five stars, then 
grab a red coin in the air (5) before dropping to the platform below. Follow 
the path leading downward to another lava area, then hop across the stakes to 
get past the lava. At the end, walk onto the block and it will start to rise. 
Get off of it, then ride it downward and drop onto the left ledge.

Down here, hop across the stakes to the left while avoiding the lava monster 
below. Grab the red coin on the middle pillar (6) and wait for the stream of 
lava water above to stop, then jump onto the solid pillar and shoot an egg at 
the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Jump onto the rotating platforms above and then onto some more stakes to the 
left. Grab the red coin in the middle (7), then jump up the ledges to the top 
area. Jump through the Middle Ring and head through the door leading to the 
next room. In here, you will find the four numbered targets above, as well as 
a locked door. You will be returning here soon; for now, head through the 
door to the far left.

There, jump to the right ledge and grab a red coin (8), then use the Stork 
Stop to get Baby DK. Swing on the rope and jump to the vine, which you then 
climb while avoiding the spinning fire pillar. Jump over the left ledge and 
flutter downward to grab a red coin (9), then grab onto the vine again and 
climb to the ceiling. Head right until you reach the dirt in the ground, then 
ground pound downward to the ledge halfway in. Break the dirt in there and 
grab the red #1 ball, then pound to the area below. Go through the door and 
shoot the ball at the appropriate target for now, then go back through the 
left door.

This time, use the Stork Stop to get Baby Mario. Jump to the right ledge and 
aim upward and to the right, then shoot an egg at the Arrow Cloud to trigger 
a winged cloud above to fall, making stairs appear. Head back to the left and 
switch to Baby DK, then go on the rope and vine to the upper area. Go right 
and head up the stairs that are now visible, then flutter to the left ledge.

Collect the green #2 ball on the left platform and continue to the left. Hop 
over a series of platforms while avoiding the fire pillars, then climb the 
vine at the end. Jump to the right ledges and grab the yellow #3 ball. Now, 
look above and shoot an egg at the winged cloud to lower a rope. Swing on it 
to gain momentum, then jump to the upper-right ledge and enter that room.

In here, eat a couple of torches and shoot the fire at all the ice blocks in 
the air. Doing this will lower a Stork Stop, as well as earn you another 
Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Look above and shoot eggs at the coins above the high torches to grab two red 
coins (11). Then, switch to Baby Mario and go through the right door to enter 
the next room. There, jump onto the ball on the nearby ledge to reach the 
high ledge. Drop down the pit to the right and grab a red coin (12) on the 
way down, while moving to avoid the spinning fire pillars. Bounce back to the 
upper ledge again, then look upward. Shoot an egg upward to grab the third 
Flower.

Flower 4
--------

From here, jump across to the right platform. Do a ground pound to stun the 
piranha plant, then shoot an egg at the spot on the ceiling where the arrows 
are pointing. Doing this will hit a winged cloud, which will spawn a Key. 
Shoot a second egg to open the bumpers so that it falls through. Drop down 
the right pit to get another red coin (13), then grab the Key and head 
through the door to the left. Get through the room with the icy blocks to 
reach the large room again. When you get back there, flutter your way 
downward and to the right, and continue to the bottom area.

Once you reach the bottom, use the Stork Stop to get Baby Peach, then head 
through the door. In the room with the targets, shoot the #2 and #3 balls 
into their respective slots. Then, unlock the door and enter that room. Here, 
go right and fly upward in the wind gust while avoiding the fire pillars. If 
you flutter to the right of the two fire pillar platforms, you will find two 
more red coins (15).

When you get to the top area, land on the right ledge. Avoid the fire pillars 
and drop off the right side to grab the fourth Flower, then flutter to the 
left wind gust and get back onto the high left ledge.

Flower 5
--------

Go up the hill and make eggs out of the bats, then pass through the Middle 
Ring in the corner. Break the dirt platform above and hit the red switch to 
close the gates to the left, which in turn shuts off the lava waterfall in 
the large room. From here, go right and ground pound through all the dirt as 
a shortcut to the bottom area. Go through the door to reach the target room, 
then head through the left door to reach the large lava room.

Back here, jump to the right ledge and shoot the checkered block to flatten 
it into a platform. Ride the platform to the right and shoot an egg to the 
lower-right corner, grabbing the two red coins there (17). Jump onto the 
rotating purple platforms above the coins, then jump above them to grab the 
last Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Get back onto the checkered platform and shoot an egg at the Arrow Cloud 
above to make stairs appear. Jump to the left ledge and head left, using the 
Stork Stop to switch to Baby DK. Swing on the rope and climb the vine, then 
head right. Jump over the gap and head up the stairs that appeared, then 
flutter across the right gap. Land on the ledge and collect the purple #4 
ball, as well as a red coin (18).

Jump back across the gap and down the stairs, then go left and pound through 
the dirt. When you reach the bottom area once more, go through the door. In 
the target room, shoot the #4 ball at the remaining target. Doing this will 
raise a block, allowing you to enter the center door. Out here, avoid the 
bombs being dropped and shoot an egg at the winged cloud above to lower a 
rope. Swing back and forth on it to build momentum, then jump upward and 
flutter onto the base of the rope. From there, jump to the left ledge and 
grab the Character Coin.

Now, drop to the ground and run to the right, collecting the last two red 
coins (20) at the end. Then, jump through the Goal Ring at the end to exit.


================================
World 5-7: Superhard Acrobatics!
================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head right and you will see the path leading up a hill. Drop to 
the lower area and ride the green platform to the right. Jump to collect the 
coins at the end and you will find a red coin (1). Ride the platform back to 
the start, then jump up and take the upper-right path. When you get to it, 
ride the yellow platform as it moves onward, dropping onto lower tracks along 
the way. At the end, jump to the clouds above the track and onto a wheel of 
green platforms.

Hop on the platforms on the right side to roll the entire set down the track. 
Shoot eggs at the vases on the spike pits below so that the ghost enemies 
won't hurt you. As you progress, there will be two red coins (3) for you to 
pick up as well. At the end, jump onto the large cloud and eat the spiked 
balls that the piranha plant spits out. Shoot eggs to defeat it, then ride 
the speedy platform to the right, ducking under the low wall along the way.

At the end, you will have the option to go up or down. Jump onto the 
Paratroopa and then get onto the red platform above. Ride it to the right, 
then hop onto the next Paratroopa and flutter upward to grab the first 
Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Ride the second red platform to the right, then jump onto a slow-moving 
yellow one. Avoid the eggs being thrown by the pitchers below as you head to 
the right. Jump to grab a red coin (4), then continue along the platform 
until the end. Once you reach the end, jump through the Middle Ring and go 
down the pipe below. There, ride the yellow platforms to the bottom area, 
then aim eggs upward to shoot the cracked block (you must have Baby DK to do 
this) and to collect the second Flower in the middle area.

Flower 3
--------

Head back to the top area and go back up the pipe to exit. Back outside, go 
right and jump to the yellow platform on a circular track above. Jump above 
it to get a red coin (5), then head to the lower-right corner to collect 
another red coin (6). Once you have both coins, head to the upper area and 
continue right into the next area.

In the next area, head right across a bunch of timer platforms, then hop on 
the rising balloons. Eat the bird enemies on the way up, and collect the red 
coin in the upper-right area (7). At the top, go right and use the Stork Stop 
to switch to Baby Peach. Before you continue, drop to the cloud below the 
Stork Stop and look to the lower right. Shoot an egg to grab the third Flower 
hiding down here.

Flower 4
--------

Jump over the two bulls to the right and ride the wind gust upward to a high 
ledge. Go through the door there to reach a side room. There, flutter your 
way to the left with the help of the wind. Collect the red coin (8) from the 
leftmost coin batch, then use the Stork Stop to get Baby DK. Make your way 
upward through this room by climbing and jumping from vine to vine while 
avoiding the many fire pillars. In the upper-right corner, you will find a 
red coin (9); in the upper-left area, you will get the Character Coin in an 
enclosed alcove. When you're done here, switch back to Baby Peach and exit 
the room.

Drop to the lower area and continue right, where you will find platforms on a 
couple of tracks. Use the wind gust to fly to the upper path, then hop on the 
right platforms to roll the wheel along. Collect two red coins (11) along the 
way, then jump to the yellow platform ahead. As you make your way to the 
right, shoot eggs at the hanging piranha plants ahead to stun them. Collect 
two red coins (13), then continue to the end and enter the next area.

In here, switch to Baby Mario, then collect the Super Star in the dirt box. 
Jump onto the spikes and run to the right, collecting the coins along the 
way. Grab the second Super Star in the air, then continue onward, running 
through the enemies and jumping to avoid the Chomp Rock. You must be fast or 
else the power will run out and you will die on the spikes. When you reach 
the clouds to the far right, that is the first safe area. Ground pound to 
remove the leaves from the flower, then jump to the right and shoot an egg to 
collect the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Before you turn back, wait on the far right ledge for a moment. A Shy Guy 
carrying a red coin will swoop down; egg the coin to collect it (14). Now, go 
left and jump up the clouds to reach the upper area. Before you continue to 
the right, head to the far left. Eat the hopping enemies as you make your way 
to the left. When you grab the Super Star, run around the cloud you collected 
it on, grabbing a red coin (15) as you run upside-down under the cloud. Get 
back to the top side and head right until your powers wear off.

Now, head right until you reach the spike pit. Get onto the Chomp Rock and 
stand on the right side while walking to the left; this will get it moving to 
the right along the spikes. Collect the coins, as well as a red coin (16), 
then walk onto the second Chomp Rock up ahead. Cross the next section of 
spikes in the same fashion, grabbing another red coin (17) on the way. Run 
over the pitcher enemy along the way, after jumping to avoid its pitch. At 
the end, go right into the next area.

Go through the Middle Ring when you arrive and hop across a couple of falling 
platforms. Ride one of the green platforms around its track, then when you 
reach the right end of the track, jump onto the yellow platforms on the next 
track. Head downward on the yellow platform, shooting eggs at the piranha 
plants on the wall. At the bottom, shoot an egg upward into the alcove to 
collect the fourth Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Ride the yellow platforms back to the upper end of their track, and you will 
see a vase on the ledge to the right of the Stork Stop. Shoot the vase to 
flip it, then flutter over it to collect a red coin (18) safely. When you see 
a yellow platform moving to the right, hop onto it and head in that direction 
as well. Ground pound to stun the spiky piranha plants, then eat the spiked 
balls that the others spit in the air and use the eggs you make to defeat 
them.

Defeat the piranha plant on the ledge to the right, then jump from that ledge 
across a series of falling platforms. Below the last falling platform is a 
red coin (19), so make sure you don't miss it. At the end, hop onto the green 
platforms going around another track. This time, as you ride around, the 
hazards consist of rotating fire pillars. You cannot destroy them, so your 
best bet is to jump and maneuver yourself to avoid them when possible. Ride 
the green platform to the right, then hop onto the slower yellow platforms. 
Ride the yellow one all around the track, grabbing the last red coin (20) 
along the bottom portion.

Ride the yellow platform around, then when you reach the upper-right corner 
of its track, jump to the wheel of green platforms. Hop along the right side 
to roll it down the track, being careful not to hit the fire pillars above. 
For the next part, there will be a track full of fast-moving green platforms 
moving to the right. However, there are two fire pillars rotating at varying 
speeds at the right side. Flutter and hop back to the left until there's an 
opening, then slide past on a platform.

From here, jump to the final ledge to the right. Then, go through the Goal 
Ring ahead to end this stage.


====================================
World 5-8: At Last, Bowser's Castle!
====================================

Flower 1
--------

Before the stage begins, you will witness a scene with Baby Wario and Baby 
Bowser outside. They will rejoin your group for the adventure through the 
final castle here. From the start, go right and hop across several platforms, 
collecting the coins that act as a guide along the way. Avoid the bombs being 
dropped on you by the birds, and collect three red coins (3) as you cross all 
the platforms.

When you come to the donut block platforms, hop across them as you continue 
onward. Be careful since you will have to jump your way across numerous 
single blocks, which can be tricky. Grab the three red coins (6), then when 
you reach the ledge with a door, shoot the winged cloud directly above the 
door to get five stars. Also, look to the upper-right corner and shoot the 
winged cloud hiding there. Shoot a second egg to retrieve the Flower which 
appears.

Flower 2
--------

Once you have the first flower, go into the room and you will blast off in a 
rocket. As with the rocket scene last time, make your way upward by following 
the coin lines around the planets. You can speed up by pressing and holding 
B, but be careful; if you hit anything, you die. When you begin, go straight 
up and you will see two different coin lines branch off. Follow the coin path 
to the right, and you will reach the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

Continue heading along the coin path to the far north end. When you finally 
reach the end of the path, collect the three red coins (9), then go through 
the portal to reach a new area. When you land, go through the Middle Ring and 
continue right. Shoot the winged cloud above the door to get five more stars. 
Use the Stork Stop and take any baby you want, as the path splits in the next 
room.

In the following room, you will see that there are five paths leading upward, 
each accessible by a different baby. Each individual course will have its own 
challenges specific to that baby's abilities. Regardless of the path you 
take, you will be able to obtain eight red coins (17) and two Flowers.

Flower 4
--------

See Flower #3.

Flower 5
--------

At the end of the path, go through the door to reach the next area. Drop to 
the lower area and head right to a Middle Ring and an egg block. Flutter 
above the egg block to collect the final three red coins as well (20). When 
you reach the red door, look high above and shoot the winged cloud to reveal 
the final Flower. Shoot another egg to grab it, then go into the red door 
when you are ready.

Boss Battle
-----------

In the final room, Baby Bowser will part from your group. However, he will 
choose to fight you since you don't leave quickly enough. Baby Bowser will 
attack by shooting three fireballs in your direction, then he will jump in 
the air and shoot fireballs downward. After that, he will jump again and 
attempt to ground pound you, sending shockwaves in both directions when he 
lands. There is an egg flower at the bottom so you can refill your supply 
when needed. Attack by simply throwing eggs at Baby Bowser. Do this three 
times to win.

Following Baby Bowser's defeat, regular-sized Bowser will enter and challenge 
you to a battle. He will attack by jumping and shooting two fireballs in your 
direction on the way down, which you can easily avoid. He will also jump in 
the air, allowing you to run to the other side of the room. There will be a 
single giant egg floating around on a balloon (you can only have one at a 
time). Take it and shoot it at Bowser's face, then ground pound his exposed 
belly to cause damage. Once you attack, Bowser will jump towards you, so be 
quick to avoid it. After you successfully attack three times, the fight ends.

Kamek will appear and use his powers to make Bowser giant-sized for the final 
confrontation. The roof of the castle will be ripped off, and Bowser will be 
looming overhead. He will move back and forth, shooting fireballs when you 
pass below him. There will be three other Yoshis, carrying the other babies, 
trailing you through this room. A bunch of balloons carrying four giant eggs 
will float in; hit it and each Yoshi will get an egg. To attack, shoot your 
egg right at Bowser's face. If it was lined up properly, he will take damage.

Bowser will continue to shoot fireballs, but now he will also throw rocks 
into the area when he waves his claw. As the battle rages on, the rocks that 
fall will become larger and more plentiful. It will take six good hits to 
defeat the giant Bowser. Following the battle, the final scenes will take 
place and the credits will roll. Congratulations on completing Yoshi's Island 
DS; now go play the Extra/Secret stages!


==========================================
Secret Stage 5: Yoshi's Island Easter Eggs
==========================================

Flower 1
--------

Starting off, head right and go through the door leading to the next room. In 
there, hit the hint box and you will find that your first goal is to steal 
Lakitu's cloud. Go right and sure enough Lakitu will appear; use the ledges 
to get above Lakitu, then jump on him to take the cloud. Fly upward into the 
passage surrounded entirely by spikes, and take the right path first. Collect 
the Key, then take the left path upward. Grab two red coins (2) in the upper 
corner, then land on the ledge with the locked door and enter that room.

In the second room, your goal is to get past the Bouncies, which are those 
giant rubber balloons. Go through the Middle Ring and switch to Baby Peach at 
the Stork Stop, then make your way to the right by bouncing and fluttering 
through the room. Along the lower portion, you will be able to find a red 
coin (4), as well as below the platform where the Key rests (5). Bounce your 
way to the right, then head upward and to the left along the coin line. 
Follow the coin line as it arcs to the left, grabbing the Flower in midair, 
and the Key on the ledge below.

Flower 2
--------

Now that you have the Key, bounce your way to the upper-right portion of the 
room. Open the door on the ledge over there and continue into the next room. 
There, go through the Middle Ring and hit the hint box to hear the warning 
about the disappearing platforms ahead. Switch to Baby Mario, then head 
right. You will see the platforms disappearing and reappearing on a regular 
schedule. Head right, fluttering across the platforms and timing your 
landings when they reappear. In the lower-right corner, quickly land and 
shoot an egg to collect the second Flower.

Flower 3
--------

From the flower's corner, make your way upward along the disappearing ledges. 
To the left, collect the coins in formation to find two red coins (7). When 
you get to the top-right corner, make a short hop to grab the Key on the high 
ledge. Head left, making short hops across the platforms to avoid hitting the 
spikes above, then unlock the door and enter the room at the end.

In the next room, go through the next Middle Ring and collect the eggs as you 
enter the room ahead. You will see four floor switches in here, two of which 
are on high ledges. Jump to the upper ledges and shoot eggs to obtain two red 
coins (9) to the sides of the winged cloud. Shoot the winged cloud to drop a 
Key onto the pipe, then use your tongue to grab it. Now that you don't have a 
full set of eggs, Shy Guys will jump out of the pipe. Eat them and spit them 
upward (this part is important) so that they land on three of the floor 
switches. Then, stand on the fourth one to raise a platform below the door. 
Jump onto it and unlock the door when you reach it to reach the next room.

You will enter a room which will become pitch black as soon as you walk to 
the right. Head through the Middle Ring, then go right to the first red 
switch. As a note, the red switches will turn on the lights for a brief 
moment before shutting them off again, so use them to see what's ahead before 
progressing.

As you wander through the dark, you will hear Boos chasing you around, so try 
and stay away from them. Be sure to ground pound often to stun the piranha 
plants, that way you won't have to worry about their shots. There are three 
red coins (12) to be recovered in this room. From where you begin, make your 
way upward to a ledge where the Key is sitting. In the lower-right area, you 
will find a large rubber ball next to a red switch. Bounce all the way upward 
on it to grab the third Flower.

Flower 4
--------

As soon as you grab the flower, flutter to the right platform. If you already 
found the Key, then go ahead and unlock the door leading onward. In the next 
area, go through the Middle Ring and collect the eggs to the right. There 
will be a platform hanging from a track here; you will have to shoot eggs at 
the wheel it's hanging from to move along. Try not to move so quickly, so 
that the platform doesn't speed up and lead you into an accident.

Head right and upward along the track, jumping to the left to grab a red coin 
(13), as well as more eggs. Shoot the wheel above the spiked block to the 
right to raise it up, then quickly shoot the wheel on your platform to get 
past. Once you get past it, continue right and flutter into the high corner 
to get another red coin (14). Go down and grab more eggs, then as you head 
right, hit the three yellow egg blocks to get those eggs.

Raise the gate, then speed past on your platform as you continue onward. Jump 
to collect another red coin (15) in the formation as you head upward. Go 
right to the end of the track, then eat the spiked balls that the piranha 
plant spits at you. Make eggs out of them, then shoot the winged cloud above 
it to make a Key fall. Use eggs to defeat the plant, then flutter to the 
ledge and use the Key to exit through the door.

In this next room, you will have to deal with super fast Arrow Wheels in 
order to get through this spike-lined passage. This will require some really 
strategic jumping and fluttering so that you keep moving in the right 
direction without hitting the spikes. There are three red coins (18) which 
you can obtain along the way; they will be in the middle of cross formations 
at each corner. In the upper-left corner, you will be able to grab a Flower.

Flower 5
--------

Make your way along the rest of the path until you reach the locked door. As 
you pass below it, open the door to enter the next room. Go through the 
Middle Ring, then switch to Baby Mario if you don't already have him. Run to 
the right, then break the dirt above to get the first Super Star. What you 
have to do is here is cross all the spikes while making your way to the upper 
tiers, while killing ALL the piranha plants in the process. Of course, you 
won't be able to do the entire run with one star's power, so you will be 
doing a lot of backtracking to ensure that you kill everything.

Head to the right, then jump to the upper ledges and continue to the left 
(you'll be backtracking a couple times to the second Super Star spawn point 
because of all the slow movement on your part here). After you head all the 
way left, grab the third star and continue upward to grab the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Grab the star again, then jump back up and run all the way right. Kill the 
remaining plants after backtracking a couple times, and grab the last two red 
coins (20) in the middle of each set of coins above. At the end, if you 
killed all the plants, the block leading to the safe platform will rise. If 
you made it safely, break the dirt above to collect the final Key, then 
unlock the door to exit.

Now that you are outside of this endurance chamber, head right and jump 
through the Goal Ring to complete the stage.


========================================
Extra Stage 5: Quit It Already, Tap-Tap!
========================================

Flower 1
--------

From the start, use the Stork Stop to switch to Baby Mario. Then, flutter to 
collect the red coin (1) above the red switch. Hit the switch and start 
running along the red blocks. As you run, the Tap-Tap (that giant spiked 
ball) will start rolling along to chase you, destroying the blocks it passes 
over. Jump onto the stack of larger blocks and flutter to the right to grab a 
high red coin (2), then continue to the right.

Hit the next red switch to renew the blocks, then hop up the steps and 
continue going right. After you pass the third switch, continue jumping 
across the gaps as you run to avoid the Tap-Tap. There is a red coin to be 
collected in this fashion (3). You will then see a bunch of ledges leading 
upward, so jump up them to lose the giant spiked ball for the meantime. Go 
right, hopping across the lower bunches of platforms, where you will grab 
another red coin (4) ahead.

After you get across the platforms, go right and ride the orange platform 
upward on its track. As you approach the top, jump straight upward to grab a 
red coin (5), as well as the first Flower.

Flower 2
--------

Land on the right ledge and continue into the second area. In there, use the 
Middle Ring and switch to Baby Peach at the Stork Stop. When you're ready, 
hit the red switch and the floor will drop. The wind gusts will start as 
well, so quickly begin jumping and fluttering upward in the breeze. You will 
have to be very fast, since the Tap-Tap will be chasing you upward as well.

A good trick for picking up speed quickly is to tap B and start a new flutter 
as the current one is about to end. There are five red coins (10) to be 
grabbed as you maneuver around the spikes and other obstructions. One is 
above the start of the run, two are in the middle of formations below spike 
blocks, one is at the bottom of a line of coins past the first two, and the 
last is the middle coin just above a spike block you have to maneuver around. 
At the top, grab the second Flower and go through the door. If you aren't 
quick enough, Tap-Tap will break the ledge the door sits on and you will be 
out of luck.

Flower 3
--------

In the following room, go through the Middle Ring so you won't have to go 
through the wind tunnel room again. Then, head right and jump over the spiky 
enemies walking around. In the back corner, you will find another red coin 
(11). Ground pound just a short bit downward so you don't fall all the way 
through, and collect eggs from the egg flower. The way to navigate this area 
is to shoot eggs through the dirt, then flutter your way through the 
passages.

Make your way to the area below your starting point to find another red coin 
(12). As you head to the left, collect eggs from the egg flower at the 
bottom, while being careful not to be surrounded by the spiky enemies. In the 
middle, you will find the third Flower; shoot an egg to get it safely.

Flower 4
--------

On the left side of the room, you will see an arrow made of spikes pointing 
downward. Jump around there to reveal a hidden winged cloud. Shoot it to make 
a red switch appear. Clear the dirt below the switch so it falls to the area 
below, then hit the switch to raise a block on the right ledge, leading to a 
Chomp Rock. Stand on the Chomp Rock to move it away from the wall, then push 
it to the left and down to the area below.

Push the Chomp Rock up the hills to the right, collecting the coins in the 
air along the way and killing the spiky enemies. When you reach the second 
group of coins, jump to find a red coin (13) among them. Look at the ceiling 
and you will see a line of coins exposed; shoot an egg upward into that 
opening to receive another red coin (14).

When you reach the far right end, you will have to jump up a bunch of ledges 
occupied by spiky enemies. Try to shoot eggs to knock enemies off platforms 
you can't safely jump onto as you make your way to the top. Once you get to 
the top, jump into the bubble to morph into a Mole Tank. As your first means 
of business, climb up the right wall and dig through the narrow passage to 
reach the fourth Flower.

Flower 5
--------

After you get the flower, climb back out and start heading through the dirt 
in the left wall. At the first path split, head downward. Dig into the alcove 
to the right and collect the three coins, including a red coin (15). Head 
back left and continue downward to find another morph bubble to extend your 
time in this form. If you continue going left along the lower path, you will 
be able to find another red coin (16) in a dead end.

Make your way to the upper half of this maze and you will find another time 
extension morph bubble. Below that, you will see a few paths leading downward 
to some coins. The middle coin path has another red coin (17). If you head to 
the far left, you will see a Yoshi block above some spikes. Collect the red 
coin (18) at the end of that path, but do NOT hit the block as you will die 
instantly! Instead, make your way to the lower-left area of the maze, and 
exit through that path.

The block below you will rise upward, causing you to move around in order to 
avoid the spikes above. Collect the coins on the way up, including a red coin 
(19) off to the right side. At the top, head right and jump to avoid a ton of 
spiky enemies. There will be a line of three coins with spikes above them, 
and spiky enemies jumping around below. Use eggs or your tongue to clear the 
spiky enemies, then hop flutter to collect the last red coin (20). Go through 
the Middle Ring, then head through the door to a new area.

Outside, hop into the mine cart and you will go on a speedy ride down the 
tracks, with none other than Tap-Tap giving chase. Go down the hill, then 
jump at the gap and into the next cart. At the next gap, jump to the right 
and quickly fall into the next cart before Tap-Tap catches up to you. Repeat 
this for the next several gaps, keeping the giant spiked ball in pursuit. At 
the end, if you did this right, Tap-Tap will break the flat platform at the 
end before falling into the pit. When this happens, flutter to the low ledge 
and pick up the final Flower.

Goal Ring
---------

Collect the extra life above the flower, then jump to the top area again. Go 
right from here to reach the Goal Ring, ending this rough stage!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Mini-Games -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=====================
Post-Level Mini-Games
=====================

NOTE: The following are the mini-games you play at the end of a level once
      you jump through the Goal Ring, if the ball lands on a Flower. You can
      access these in the world screens by obtaining more than 700 points in
      a given world (it's the square next to the Options one).

Flip Cards
----------

There will be eight cards flipped upside-down in a square formation. The 
middle square is an exit square, should you want to stop playing and leave 
with the extra lives (if any) you've earned. In the mix, there are three of 
Kamek's cronies, which give you nothing if you get them. The other cards can 
be of Baby Peach, Baby Mario, Stars, or a Flower; they give you extra lives. 
One card is Kamek himself, and if you get that card, you automatically lose. 
If you uncover all the cards, cronies included, and pick the Kamek card last, 
you will win 10 extra lives instead.


Scratch and Match
-----------------

You will have a board with seven squares you can scratch. You will only be 
allowed to scratch three of the cards, and will earn extra lives depending on 
how many Baby Mario cards you uncover. You get 1-Up for one Baby Mario, 2-Up 
for two, and 5-Up for three. The other spaces are occupied by Kamek's 
cronies, which will earn you nothing.


Match Cards
-----------

You will have a large board with 14 cards (7 pairs) flipped over. You will 
get to pick two cards each turn; if they match, you can continue, and if they 
don't, you lose a turn. You will have only two turns to make as many pairs as 
you can. At the start of the game, all the cards are flipped over so you can 
see where everything is. Remember their locations and this should be easy. If 
you manage to make six pairs, the final pair will net you 10 extra lives.


Roulette
--------

For this game, there will be wheels, one with + and x symbols, and the other 
with numbers ranging from 0-3. At the start, you will be able to wager from 
one to 99 lives. When you are done, press A and the wheels will turn. 
Depending on where they both stop, you may or may not earn some extra lives. 
Usually you will break even, as it is pretty rare to win big without making 
some crazy wager at the start.


Slot Machine
------------

This game is a traditional slot machine with three spinners, each with a 
button underneath. Press A and you will stop the first spinner; do this three 
times to stop them all. If you line up three of the same pictures, you may 
win some extra lives, as outlined to the right of the slots.


================
Other Mini-Games
================

NOTE: The following are the mini-games you play behind locked doors
      throughout the regular game. You can access them via the Mini-Games
      menu from the file select screen.

Tulip Shooter
-------------

You will be in a room full of Shy Guys, with a red tulip in the air. The idea 
is to spit as many Shy Guys into the tulip as possible within the allotted 
time limit (30 seconds on Easy; 60 seconds on Hard). To spit the enemies into 
the tulip, it's best to jump in the air facing the tulip a slight distance 
away, and spit the Shy Guys upward (hold Up and press Y). That way they are 
lobbed in the air and don't end up being destroyed by hitting the edges. In 
Easy mode, there will only be one large tulip, and only regular Shy Guys 
wandering around. In Hard mode, there will be a wider and more dangerous 
assortment of enemies, as well as three small tulips.


Flutter Challenge
-----------------

For this game, you have to flutter as far to the left or right as you can 
without hitting the ground. Of course you won't go too far on just one 
flutter at the beginning; you'll have to constantly jump and flutter to gain 
any significant distance. You will gain extra lives based on the distance you 
fly before landing. In Easy mode, you fly to the left and have a lot of space 
to fall, whereas in Hard mode you don't have as much room for mistakes as you 
fly to the right.


Bouncy Maze
-----------

You will have to bounce your way through a passage lined with giant Bouncy 
pads. The Bouncies are safe to hit, but it can get annoying if you rely 
solely on them to navigate the passage. A good idea would be to flutter your 
way through when possible. Along the way, you can pick up small timers which 
will add an extra second to the time, so they are kind of useless. In Easy 
mode, the path is wide and relatively simple, and you have 30 seconds. 
However, in Hard mode you will have 60 seconds to complete it, but the path 
is considerably more difficult, long and winding.


Speed Eating
------------

In here, you will be in a long room full of various enemies. The objective is 
to eat as many enemies and make eggs out of them as you can within the time 
limit. In Easy mode, you have 30 seconds to eat, and there are only regular 
Shy Guys and very few, if any, tricky enemies to deal with. In Hard mode 
though, there are many more difficult and unedible enemies to face, and you 
will have 60 seconds to clear this room.


Egg Toss
--------

For this game, you will have to shoot eggs at numerous targets above you. 
Your egg supply is infinite, since you can always hit the egg blocks to get 
more. In the Easy mode, there are 7 targets to hit in 30 seconds, and very 
few bird enemies above to interfere. However, in Hard mode, you have 60 
seconds to hit 9 targets, but there are many piranha plants as well as birds 
in the room to hinder your progress.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Secrets/Tips and Tricks  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=====================
Mini-Game Unlockables
=====================

Flip Cards: Gain at least 700 points total in World 1.
Scratch and Match: Gain at least 700 points total in World 2.
Match Cards: Gain at least 700 points total in World 3.
Roulette: Gain at least 700 points total in World 4.
Slot Machine: Gain at least 700 points total in World 5.


===================
Unlock Extra Stages
===================

To unlock the Extra stage in each world (the square to the left of the Mini-
Game slot), you must gain at least 800 points in that particular world. You 
do not necessarily need perfect scores in every stage to accomplish this, as 
long as you end up with 800 points somehow.


======================
Unlock Hard Mini-Games
======================

To unlock the hard versions of each mini-game accessible from the file select 
screen, you must collect all the Character Coins in a given world. Below is a 
list of which hard game is unlocked and when:

World 1: Tulip Shooter
World 2: Flutter Challenge
World 3: Bouncy Maze
World 4: Speed Eating
World 5: Egg Toss


====================
Unlock Secret Stages
====================

To unlock the Secret stage in each world (the square just to the left of the 
Extra stage slot), you must beat the entire game once. You do not need to 
have perfect scores to earn this, however.


======================
Unlock Time Trial Mode
======================

To gain access to Time Trial mode, you must beat the game once. You do not 
need to have perfect scores to earn this, however. In Time Trial mode, you 
will be able to replay any stage in the game, in which the objective will be 
to reach the end as quickly as possible. You gain nothing from doing this; it 
is just an extra challenge to try.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Copyright Notice -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2007 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved. Please view 
the following URL to see the list of sites that are allowed to post my work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites I know and trust well. If your site is not on 
the aforementioned list, you are currently not allowed to post any of my 
files on your site. If you wish to acquire permission, feel free to email me 
(see the section below); permission may or may not granted at my discretion. 
Please respect my work and do not steal it or post it without my permission. 
I only want my most recent work to be available and I do not feel that can be 
achieved if others take from me without my knowledge or permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for this game as well, and would like to use some 
information, contact me and we'll talk. Please do not rip me off, as that is 
blatant plagiarism and such will not be tolerated.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  10. Contact Information -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

As of this version, the file contains all the information I know to date. If 
it is a work in progress, give me time before bombarding me with emails about 
things being missing. All I ask is that you READ THE FAQ before emailing me, 
since that's what it's here for! Don't waste my time (and yours) by asking me 
for information obviously covered in the guide. If it's in reference to a 
side quest or item, chances are they can be found in another section besides 
the walkthrough, so check the appendices as well.

If you have any questions, comments, or things to add that are not already in 
this FAQ, feel free to email me. I usually do post submissions, credit given 
of course, so long as I feel they are relevant to the game in question. My 
email address is dbmfaqs(at)gmail.com. Thanks for reading, and be sure to 
check out the rest of my work at this URL:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=