********************************

   Assassin's Creed: Altair's Ch
      For the Nintendo DS
Version 1.0 (Created 10/9/2008)
        By Devin Morgan

 This file is Copyright (c)2008 

********************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. Overview
5. Walkthrough
6. Techniques/Items
7. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
8. Copyright Notice

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.0 (10/9/08): The first
and complete version of this
guide.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Assassin's Creed: Altair's
Chronicles is known as the
prequel to the popular game of
the same name on the major
consoles. It follows Altair
through a series of cities and
areas, on his quest to recover
the Chalice. It is a very
straightforward game, unlike the
original game this stemmed from.
The game will walk you through
every step of the way, so you
won't ever be lost or wondering
what to do next. It's basically
a glorified platformer, but with
glitches and stupid enemies. It
is also a relatively short game,
so it won't really last you too
long. If you're interested in
the Assassin's Creed games, you
may want to give this a try, but
it may not be worth your money
for such a short adventure.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Control Pad: Move

Start: Pause game, open submenu

A: Kick

B: Jump

X/Y: Attack with sword

L: Crouch (move while crouched
to roll)

R: Block/defend from attacks

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

===============
Counter Attacks
===============

In battle, you will not only be
on the offensive, but on the
defensive as well. If you hold
R, you can block incoming
attacks and avoid taking damage
from them. To perform a counter
attack, as soon as the enemy
strikes you, press X or Y to
attack. If done successfully,
you will be able to knock the
enemy back and deal damage to
them.


====
Orbs
====

Throughout the game, you will
encounter two types of orbs: red
and blue orbs. You will receive
a red one from every enemy you
kill, as well as blue ones (not
always). The red orbs will
recover your health (the rare,
large red orbs will fully
recover your health). The blue
ones however, can be accumulated
and used for upgrades. If you
tap the blue orb icon on the
touch screen, you will see how
many you currently have, and
what upgrades are available. You
can either upgrade your life
bar, or your sword's attack
power. You can upgrade your
attack power twice (100 blue
orbs, then 200 blue orbs), and
your life bar three times (100,
200, and 300). These upgrades
are permanent and will not be
lost if you die.


===============
Special Actions
===============

Throughout the game, there will
be certain points where a
special action will need to be
taken. These actions consist of
pickpocketing, interrogation,
and assassination.

Assassination: This is the only
action that does not involve a
mini-game
   setting. If you sneak up behi
   to press A. If you do so, you
   grip; press A again to kill t

Interrogation: When you are
given a target to interrogate,
you will have to
   go to them and press A to sta
   consist of tapping numbered c
   circles around them become sm
   you will be unsuccessful, as 
   After several rounds of this,
   target's arm by waiting for t
   target circle, then drag the 
   circle to do it correctly. Th
   information out of certain pe

Pickpocketing: When you come
upon your target for
pickpocketing, sneak up
   behind them and press A to st
   touch screen will be black at
   to uncover the bag's contents
   key around the other items in
   the bag itself. If you touch 
   will drain. If you are unsucc
   attacked, whereas if you take
   win without any problems.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

================
Coming Home: 1-1
================

You begin the game in the Middle
East in the year 1190. Watch the
brief opening scene and you will
be shown a quick hint, if you
want to call it that. When you
have control, first head to the
west and break the urns to
obtain some orbs. Then, head
east and climb onto the
building. You will notice that
arrows will tell you where to
go, so follow them and you will
make it far in this game. Atop
the building, head east and
through the first checkpoint.

Climb the ladder and run to the
east, then jump straight across
to the next rooftop. When you
reach the thin beam ahead, walk
(hold R) to get across safely.
At the other side, head south
slightly and walk across another
beam to the east. When you reach
the far end, walk to the north
and head east, dropping off the
rooftops to the ground below. Go
ahead until you are prompted to
proceed with caution, reason
being there are guards around.
They are sleeping, but if you
run past, they will attack you.
You can simply kill them, but
let's not do that just yet.

Walk through the area until you
reach the next scene, where you
see the gates are closed. A
nearby merchant might have the
key, so walk towards the
merchant and press A to begin a
tutorial on pickpocketing. Rub
the stylus all over the screen
to reveal the bag and do a
practice run of removing the key
from the bag, before doing it
for real. Get the key out of the
bag successfully, then continue
east to the gate, completing
this area.


================
Coming Home: 1-2
================

When you arrive in the next
area, you will see that a
village ahead is burning. Head
up the hill to the south and you
will reach a checkpoint.
Continue to the east and hop up
the steps to spot your first
trap: spikes. Wait for the
spikes to retreat into the
ground before quickly running
across. Go through the
checkpoint at the other side and
walk across the thin beam, then
get across some more spikes when
they retreat. At the far end, go
through yet another checkpoint
and head northward, jumping over
the gap to the next checkpoint.

Head east across a bridge, and
you will see several rows of
spikes. These do not move, so
you have to walk (or run) around
them. When you make it to the
other side, go down the ramp to
the south and continue eastward.
Go through a checkpoint and walk
north and east across a thin
beam. While still holding R,
jump to the east and then to the
north. Jump/climb onto the gray
platforms nearby and continue
eastward, heading down a series
of steps along the way.

When you reach the ground level,
go right and you will receive a
Sword from a wounded man. At
that point, a guard will come
towards you to attack, so go and
do battle with your new weapon;
use X or Y to attack. Kill the
guard and head right to complete
the level. You will also be
taught your first two sword
techniques.


================
Coming Home: 1-3
================

As soon as you begin, you will
be up against two more guards.
Kill them and go forward to be
prompted to kick a support beam.
Press A to kick the beam,
lowering a ramp for you. Go east
and drop off the other side of
the roof/ramp, and you will find
some more guards. Continue
heading eastward while killing
the guards in your way. Kill the
archer when you come to him,
then climb the ladder to the
north and enter your first
checkpoint.

From here, jump onto the west
roof and follow the trail of
orbs to the northwest. When you
reach the man in red, approach
him and press A to begin a
tutorial on interrogation. You
will get to practice before
doing it for real, so pay
attention. Basically, numbered
points will appear with circles
around them. When the circles
become smaller and green, tap
the number to do it
successfully. For the sliding
one, wait for the circle to turn
green and come close, then hold
the stylus on the circle as it
moves along its path. Complete
the interrogation to find out
information, then you will
receive a checkpoint.

Continue to the southwest and
run along the path quickly,
since it will crumble shortly
after you pass. Follow the path
south and east, then jump across
a series of ledges to the east.
At the last ledge, run/jump to
the north and kill the two
guards up there. Head to the
northeast and down the ladder to
find an archer. Kill him and
continue down the next ladder,
then defeat some more guards and
another archer. After that, go
east to a thin beam. Walk across
it and sneak up on the sleeping
guard, then assassinate him by
pressing A. When that's done,
continue to the east and an ally
will run up. Continue past him
and step into the marker to
complete this area.


================
Coming Home: 1-4
================

Starting off, head to the east
and down the various sets of
stairs. Don't worry about
fighting the guards here, as
they will not attack you.
Continue to the east, then head
southward down a ramp. Head
northwest to a doorway and you
will be taught two new
techniques: Wall Climb and
Hidden Blade. You will also
learn a new sword technique.
Following this, the level will
be complete, and you will be off
to Damascus.


====================
The Hunt Begins: 2-1
====================

When you arrive here, you will
witness a scene where Altair
(your character) talks to an old
man, apparently. Your test is to
make it to the other end of the
street alive. Now that you know
where to go, start by wall
climbing onto the rooftop of the
first building to the east.
Climb onto the platform and jump
to the next rooftop, where you
will find yourself stuck in tar.
To get through the tar quickly,
tap A while moving and you will
run. At the other side of the
tar pit, go through the
checkpoint and jump to the next
building.

Walk to the south across the
thin beams, then continue
jumping to the next rooftop to
the east. When you see the next
thin beam, walk to the north
along the first one, then jump
northward to the next one while
still holding R. Walk along that
beam to the rooftop, where you
will trigger a checkpoint. Head
east, jumping quickly across the
next rooftop, since if you take
too long it will collapse,
alerting the guards below. If
you call, simply wall climb your
way back up, killing any of the
guards in your way. On the next
rooftop, walk to the right and
sneak behind the sleeping guard,
then assassinate him (press A
when prompted to, then press it
again).

Next, walk to the south across a
thin beam to reach a checkpoint.
From here, jump across a couple
more rooftops and you will
notice the assassination icon
above a man below. Drop down and
assassinate him, then kill the
two guards who are alerted by
your presence. Wall climb onto
the eastern building, then get
to the higher rooftops and
continue eastward. Jump across
to the east and you will meet
the man from earlier. Go east,
making your way downward in the
process, then when you reach
ground level, go west into the
building. After you talk to the
man, you will get the Grappling
Hook skill, and will be directed
towards your next goal.

Exit the office and climb the
ladder, then walk along the
perimeter of the wall and drop
off the south edge. When you
reach the ground outside the
building, go east to end this
level.


====================
The Hunt Begins: 2-2
====================

Here, your goal is to find a man
named Misbah. Since there are
plenty of guards on the ground,
head east and you will see a
ladder. Climb it, then climb
onto the rooftops and head east.
You will be prompted to use the
Grappling Hook for the first
time; press A to swing from a
hook, then as you swing, you can
jump ahead by pressing B. Get
across the gap successfully and
you will reach a checkpoint.
Cross the tar pit and follow the
narrow path ahead, then use the
Grappling Hook again. Jump over
a spike pit and continue
eastward to another checkpoint.

Up ahead, you will be prompted
to cause some mischief. Achieve
this by pushing a crate off the
rooftop to the east, right onto
a guard's head. Drop down to the
ground after you do that, then
go southeast to find another
crate. Carry it to where the
next marker appears, then wall
climb to the upper ledge,
passing through a checkpoint in
the process. On the next
rooftop, run to the north,
double jumping across the two
spike pits and climbing onto the
next rooftop. Walk across a thin
beam to the east, then drop to
the lower rooftop to the south.
Jump over the snakes, then use
the Grappling Hook to continue
onward.

After you go through the
checkpoint, go south, jumping
across the cracked area so you
don't fall through it. At the
other end, use the Grappling
Hook and you will see two
glowing points. If you jump
ahead, you can press A to
grapple onto the next point.
Make it across the wide gap,
then jump down the rooftops to
reach the ground. When you check
the door, you will find that it
is locked. Luckily, a nearby
guard may have the key.

To reach the guard, jump onto
the southern ledge and jump to
the east, where you will have to
run up a steep hill. Jump over
the spike pits on the way up,
then when you reach the
checkpoint at the top, walk over
to the guard. Pickpocket the
warehouse key from him, then go
back down the hill and unlock
the door. Go through the
checkpoint and you will be
inside the warehouse. In there,
pick up the crate and place it
on the dark spot next to the
structure of crates to the
north. Wall climb to the top of
the pile, then jump to the red
rope and swing to the east. On
the middle platform, you will
see snakes, so you will have to
jump over them to reach the next
rope safely, so be careful! Use
the Control Pad to swing back
and forth to build up momentum
before you jump.

When you make it to the far
ledge safely, go through the
doorway and you will be outside
again. Slide down the rooftops
to reach the ground, and you
will find Misbah at last. He
won't want to cooperate at
first, so you have to
interrogate him. Complete the
interrogation and Misbah will
slip away, leaving you to battle
three guards. Kill them, then
jump onto the eastern stall and
climb onto the rooftops. Go
through the checkpoint and walk
across the thin beam, then drop
onto the weak roof below and
jump to the east before you fall
through.

Wall climb to the northern
rooftop, and then head east
around a tar pit. Drop onto the
weak roof paneling below,
quickly jumping ahead to avoid
falling. Run through the next
tar pit, then jump to the
following rooftop and you will
catch up to Misbah. He will give
you some information about
Tamir, and then the level will
end.


====================
The Hunt Begins: 2-3
====================

Head to the north, where you
will see a doorway with a marker
about it. Jump onto the rooftop
and climb to the west, then
run/jump to the east. Walk
across a series of thin beams,
paying attention to the cracked
ledges so you don't fall
through. Simply walk along the
beams until you reach the
checkpoint, then swing on the
rope and jump to the next
rooftop ahead. Pick up the crate
and drop it on the snake to kill
it, then go south. Run/jump to
the west to avoid the cracked
section, and follow the path to
another checkpoint in the
southeast.

Next, run and jump across the
cracked section to the east, and
you will come across two snakes.
Kill the northern snake with
your sword, then jump to the
next rooftop. A man will pour
tar in an attempt to hinder your
progress, but you can jump right
over it to reach the next
rooftop easily. Kill the two
snakes with your sword, then
slide down the first slanted
roof. Jump to the next one, and
then the third one, as you make
your way to the ground. At the
bottom, head east to a ladder,
but walk to it to avoid drawing
attention (the people will throw
stones if they notice you).

Climb the ladder and jump to the
rooftops, then continue
eastward. Get across the two
collapsing rooftops, then follow
the narrow path southward. Jump
to the west across a cracked
section, and then head south to
a checkpoint. Keep moving to the
east, jumping over the cracked
areas and walking slowly over
the thin beams. At the far end,
go through another checkpoint,
then head northward and climb
onto the next rooftop. Head west
and drop into the house below,
where you will spot the oil
barrels as well as torches! Take
a torch and throw it at the oil
barrels in the corner, and they
will ignite. Tamir will emerge
and the guards will run off for
help, so drop down and talk to
Tamir.

You will find out about a desert
temple, and then will be told to
find Fajera the dancer. After
that, assassinate Tamir and the
guards will come out in force.
Quickly wall climb back to the
northern rooftop, and climb the
ladder. Head east and you will
spot a raised bridge; press A to
kick it down and run across.
Make your way downward and to
the east, jumping from ledge to
ledge in quick succession. At
the end, you will learn the
Wall-to-Wall skill. When you
reach the ground, run to the
gate and this level will be
complete. You will also learn a
new sword technique, the Light
Sting.


===============
The Dancer: 3-1
===============

This area begins with a scene
between Altair and the old man
from before. He will tell you
more about Fajera, who turns out
to be a circus dancer. After
finding out more information
about her, you will be sent to
the circus down on Market
Street.


===============
The Dancer: 3-2
===============

The next level begins with you
confronting Fajera inside the
circus tent. She won't deal with
you, instead calling a tall man
with an axe, Badr, to get rid of
you. To beat this guy, you need
to avoid his swinging axe
attacks, and wait for him to do
a vertical swipe. In doing this,
his axe will get stuck in the
ground. At this time, come up in
front of him and you will be
prompted to press X. Do so to
kick him back, causing damage.
Do this three times and the
circus tent will collapse, and
you will be back outside.

Head to the west and kill the
two guards, then you will see
some orbs leading upward between
two walls. Jump from wall to
wall to reach the rooftops, then
head west and walk across a thin
beam. Kill the archer at the
other side, and drop off the
west side to reach a checkpoint.
Head southward and jump across a
gap, then use the Grappling Hook
to head westward while avoiding
the stones being thrown at you
from below. At the other side,
go west and north to reach
another checkpoint. Jump to the
west and climb to another
rooftop, then drop off the other
side and head north.

From here, jump over the flames
to the west and follow the path
along, jumping over the gaps as
needed. Swing from the ropes
further to the west, then head
west and jump across to a
checkpoint atop a high wall.
Kill the nearby snake and head
northward, killing the second
snake you see. Jump onto the
rooftop to the west and run
through the sheltered area. At
the other end, drop down and
follow the path to another
checkpoint, killing a third
snake along the way. Kill the
archer and walk across a thin
beam, then wall climb and jump
to the west rooftop. Jump over
the flames and head northwest,
and run/jump across to the west.
Kill another archer and slide
down the wooden ledge to the
south.

Get to the ground and you will
reach a checkpoint, and a scene
will commence showing Fajera
escaping. Wall climb/jump back
onto the northern rooftop, and
head west. Jump towards the
glowing point, then press A to
swing with your Grappling Hook.
Jump to the other side and kill
the archer there. After that,
jump onto the rooftops ahead,
then drop into a tar pit below.
Run through it and drop to the
ground, where you will have
Fajera cornered. She will reveal
that all of this was a test, and
thus will give you the first key
to the desert temple. She will
also ask you to kill a man by
the name of Alaat. She will help
you get into the next district
where Alaat is, so follow her to
the west and through the gate to
end this level.


===============
The Dancer: 3-3
===============

Fajera will leave you in front
of the sewer entrance, where you
can reach the baths. Go down the
steps and jump over the gap
between some stairs below, then
go east to be prompted to crouch
(hold L), then move to roll in
that direction. Roll to the east
and jump over the rushing water
current, then jump to the south
to reach a checkpoint. Head down
some more steps and jump over
the water, but be careful of the
water current ahead. Wait until
it subsides before running past
the opening. To the right, jump
to the thin beam and hang from
it, pressing B to jump to the
next one, and repeat. Up ahead,
kill a guard and head north,
then jump to the east when the
water trap stops briefly to
reach a checkpoint.

Kill two more guards ahead, then
walk along the thin beams to the
southeast. At the end, jump to
the eastern ledge, then climb up
a couple more ledges. The next
part will involve two openings
where water will shoot out. Wait
for the left opening to stop,
then wait for the right one to
stop before quickly running
across to the checkpoint at the
other side. Walk across the thin
beam ahead, jumping across when
the water jets stop briefly,
then defeat the three guards on
the next platform.

Ahead, you will be prompted to
blow into the DS microphone to
unlock the flashing treasure
chest. Do so until you are
prompted to press A, then do so
to receive some blue orbs. Head
to the southeast and jump to the
east, then northward across two
more gaps to reach a checkpoint.
Jump to the first beam and hang
from it, then when the first
water jet stops, jump towards
the second beam. When the next
two water traps stop, quickly
jump from the third beam to the
far ledge. Kill another guard
and walk along the thin beam
before jumping to the south.
Head up the stairs and you will
find another checkpoint waiting
for you.

Jump to the south and make your
way eastward by jumping from the
beams as you hang from them,
when the water jets subside.
When you reach the safe ledge,
step on the floor switch to open
the gate back where the
checkpoint was. Now, quickly
make your way back west and head
north through the doorway while
you still can. As soon as you
make it through the gate, you
will trigger a checkpoint. Head
east by jumping across a couple
more gaps, then head down some
stairs to yet another
checkpoint. Ahead, there will be
a series of ledges, some of them
cracked, and you need to get
across them to the northeast
corner. Move quickly and you
should have no problem making
your way there.

In the northeast corner, climb
the ladder and you will emerge
in the bath area where Alaat is
relaxing. Assassinate him and
kill the guards that appear,
then head outside to the east.
Kill three more guards, then
wall climb and jump to the
eastern rooftops. Climb along
the rooftops and head east, then
drop down to the ground area to
meet up with Fajera. She will
tell you to head to Tyre next,
to meet with an old man. You
will also learn a new sword
technique, the Heavy Sting, and
then you will leave for Tyre.


=====================
The Red Hospital: 4-1
=====================

Upon your arrival in Tyre, you
need to find Hamid. Since there
are plenty of guards around, you
need to walk through the area by
holding R. Guards will not
attack you if you walk by, but
if you run, you're in for some
trouble. Far to the east, you
will meet Hamid. He will tell
you where to go next, and that
you should use the rooftops as
they are safer. So, walk back to
the west until you find the rope
ladder marked on the screen.
Climb it and step into the first
checkpoint above.

Wall climb/jump onto the eastern
rooftop, then head southeast and
drop onto an awning with an orb
on it. Jump to the second awning
and you will see a boulder
swinging back and forth. Pass it
by jumping onto the northern
rooftop and jumping to the east
over the beam holding the
boulder up. Then, continue east
across the awnings to reach
another checkpoint. Follow the
next rooftop to the south and
you will spot a guard. Kill him
and head east to kill an archer
as well. Follow the path
northward along the rooftops,
collecting orbs along the way,
then wall jump to the high
rooftops ahead and into another
checkpoint. Walk to the east
across a thin beam, then drop
down the right side into another
checkpoint.

From here, run and jump to the
east ledge, then use the
Grappling Hook to swing across.
Jump to the next ledge, then
quickly walk onto the thin beams
before the ledge collapses. Walk
to the south and west, jumping
over a large gap, then continue
to the checkpoint. There, you
will be spotted by another
guard, so kill the two guards
and the archer who are waiting
for you. Break the urns to get
the red orbs to regain health,
then walk across the eastern
thin beam to find a checkpoint.
Avoid the swinging boulders as
you jump from beam to beam,
holding R to avoid falling off
them. At the far side, use the
Grappling Hook to reach the
checkpoint on the rooftop ahead.

Drop to the ground level at the
other side, and you will see a
bunch of floating crates and a
deep sewer you need to cross.
Jump onto the first crate, then
wait for the next one to come up
alongside it, then quickly run
onto the next one. Don't ride
the crates too far to the north,
or the water jets will push you
off, killing you. When you reach
the far right box, ride it
northward, then jump to the
checkpoint on the safe ledge.

Above you, there will be three
more water jets which stop
periodically. Wait for the first
one to stop, then quickly wall
climb/jump onto that rooftop and
stand between the openings in
the wall. Get across the area in
such a fashion, then jump to the
west rooftop. Hop across a
series of ledges to the east,
then use the Grappling Hook to
swing to the next rooftop, as
well as a checkpoint. Run
southward along the slanted
rooftop, and you will be stopped
by a man who will send the
guards to attack you. Kill them,
then head to the southwest and
part of the next rooftop will
crumble. Slide down it to the
east, jumping to avoid the
swinging boulder. Run up the
other side of the crumbled roof,
and you will reach a checkpoint.

Jump onto the next rooftops,
then drop down to the east and
kill a guard standing there.
Drop down to ground level and
kill another guard to the east,
and step into the marker to meet
up with Hamid again. You are now
asked to find Roland Napule, the
man in charge of the hospital.
To get inside, you need to enter
a drained fountain, but another
man has the key for that. Walk
to the east and you will find
this man; pickpocket the key
from him, then go south and
enter the fountain.


=====================
The Red Hospital: 4-2
=====================

Inside the fountain, crouch down
and roll to the east, being
cautious of the spikes that come
out of the walls. Stop in
between each set, then roll when
it's safe, and you will be fine.
Get the checkpoint at the other
end, and you will see three
platforms above you that move in
and out of the wall. Wall jump
onto each one to make your way
upward, then go through the
checkpoint and you will come
across a slight puzzle. There is
a spike pit to the east, and a
floor switch to the west. Pull a
crate onto the floor switch when
the water jet stops briefly, and
use the Grappling Hook to
swing/land on the spike pit (the
switch lowers the spikes).

After passing through yet
another checkpoint, roll into
the next passage to the east.
Make your way downward by going
from platform to platform, then
head southward along the path
below. Kill the two guards and
jump to the west, where you will
find a swinging axe. Jump across
the gap when it's safe and take
the checkpoint, then get past
another swinging axe and kill
the snakes ahead. To the south,
kill an archer, then walk across
the thin beams, jumping over the
gaps and avoiding the swinging
axe traps along the way. Run to
the north at the end and you
will collect some orbs, as well
as trigger another checkpoint.

Climb the rope ladder, avoiding
the spikes that jut out from the
walls. Watch the pattern and
climb past them when it's safe.
Above, move around some spikes
and you will see two paths you
can take. The eastern path is
safer, so watch the spikes, and
when they both retract, head
upward. Make your way to the
upper-left corner and climb onto
the ledge with the marker when
the water jet stops. Quickly
jump onto the east ledge, and
jump across the water jets to
the east.

If you make it across, get the
checkpoint and walk across the
thin beam to the east. You will
fall to the area below, where
you have to kill two guards. Do
that, then kill the guard and
the templar who enter from the
east. Enter the east room and
you will see fire traps; cross
them when they subside briefly.
Kill the first archer to the
east, then run across the tar to
the south and kill the other.
Now, push the crate northward
onto a floor switch, and you
will trigger a checkpoint. Step
onto the first moving platform
to the east, crouching to avoid
the flames. Ride the second
platform to the east, then climb
downward with the rope ladder
onto the next platform. Crouch
under more flames, then drop
onto the regular platform at the
west end and take the
checkpoint.

Head southward by jumping and
walking across the thin beams,
then head east. Run across the
tar pits while avoiding the
flames, then kill the two
archers at the other side. After
that, the gate will open, so
kill the guards and archers in
the next room. Climb the ladders
to the upper level, and kill an
archer and two more guards
there. You will see four holes
in the floor, and four crates.
Push a crate into each hole, and
they will fall onto the four
floor switches below. Be
careful, as an archer will
respawn infinitely on the upper
level.

Once you pushed the crates onto
the switches, climb back down
and head east through the
opening to reach a checkpoint.
In the next room, head to the
north while defeating the swarm
of guards. It will help to get
to the northwest ledge and kill
the archer, as they can shoot
arrows to ignite the tar pits,
damaging you further. There is
also a checkpoint on that upper
ledge. After all the enemies are
gone, jump to the east and climb
onto the thin beam above. When
the spikes retreat into the
wall, jump to the next ledge,
and repeat until you reach the
far side.

Go through the checkpoint and
you will see several guards
below, three of them standing in
the tar pits. On the high ledges
where you are, there is a box of
torches. You can kill the guards
by throwing torches down into
the tar pits, burning them
alive. There are three tar pits,
so once you clear the guards on
them, drop down and kill the
remaining guard at the north
end. This will open the
southeast gate, so head through
it and get the checkpoint. Kill
the guard you see in there, then
climb the rope ladder and kill a
second guard on the high ledge.

Head east and climb down onto
the second rope ladder. Move to
the east when the giant spikes
move upward and out of the way.
At the other side, climb upward
and jump to the ledge where the
archer is. Kill him and press A
at the switch to open a secret
passage below and give yourself
a checkpoint. However, this
raises the cage where the
templar below was trapped in, so
drop down and kill him too.
After that, go through the
checkpoint and slide down the
ramp into a hidden chamber
below.

Kill the guards in this next
room, and you will notice
something odd about the coffins
in here. Go to each one and
press A to push them into the
wall. As you do this, the
insigia on the north wall will
illuminate. Push all of the
coffins in and a marker will
appear under that wall. Kill the
guard that pops out of the last
coffin, then step into the
checkpoint and ride the elevator
upward. You will emerge in a
room full of guards, as well as
a man they are questioning. Kill
the guards and ride the
southwest elevator upward. At
the top, jump onto the north
ledge and onto the chandelier.
You will catch the trapped
ringleader of the interrogation
here, so jump across and
assassinate him.

Now, drop back down to the lower
level and free the man in the
cage. He will give you the
second key for the desert
temple, and you will learn a new
skill: Daggers. In addition, you
will gain another sword
technique, the Battery. At this
point, Altair will be off to
Jerusalem and this level is
complete!


=====================
The Hidden Party: 5-1
=====================

In Jerusalem, you will talk to
Keeper, who will let you know
about the king's whereabouts.
Since this is who you are after
currently, you need to find out
where he will be by listening to
the gossip around town. Begin by
heading east into the first
checkpoint, then climb the
ladder and head east along the
wall before dropping off the
east side. Down on ground level,
jump to the eastern rooftop and
climb the rope ladder to reach a
higher roof. Jump to the
southern thin beam, then across
to another ledge. Make your way
onward, killing an archer along
the way. Head to the south and
east, then jump northward across
two ledges with orbs on them.
Continue eastward at the north
end, jumping across a number of
platforms, then run and jump
over a gap and climb onto a
higher rooftop, collecting a
checkpoint there too.

Walk southward across a thin
beam, then kill the sleeping
archer and slide down the
slanted roof ahead. At the edge,
jump to a thin beam and walk
north and east along it. You
will see two moving platforms
ahead; jump across them and use
the Grappling Hook to swing from
the second one, then jump to a
rope ladder along the eastern
wall. Climb down to ground
level, then head east and jump
onto the next rooftop. If any
guards spot you, kill them of
course. Make your way upward by
jumping onto the higher
rooftops, and you will get
through another checkpoint.

From here, drop to the lower
rooftop and climb a ladder, then
kill two guards at the top.
After they are dead, drop off
the southern edge of the
rooftop, collecting the orbs
along the edge. Slide down the
slanted roof and kill the guards
below, then climb the ladder to
the north and trigger a
checkpoint. Next, head to the
east side of the platform and
jump to the rope. Climb it and
jump to the eastern rooftop, and
walk southward along the thin
beam. Slide down the slanted
roof to reach the ground level
again, and head east to fight
some guards. Kill them and jump
onto the slanted rooftops in the
back corner. At the top, you
will find a checkpoint.

Now, swing from the rope and
jump to the next rooftop to the
east. Then, drop down to the
marker below and you will find
groups of people ahead having
conversations which you need to
eavesdrop on. Follow the path
going eastward and upward,
stopping in the markers along
the way to hear bits of
conversations. After the last
one, head east and south along
the dirt path, then head east
into the water. Follow the path
through the watery area,
avoiding the falling boulders
along the way. At the end, go
east to reach the checkpoint.

Continue along the path on this
side of the gardens, and you
will eventually come to Ayman,
the guy mentioned in those
conversations before. He won't
tell you where the party is at
first, so you have to complete
an interrogation mini-game. Do
that, and he will tell you the
party is going to be at
Lacoeur's villa to the north.
After this encounter is over,
walk to the north and step into
the marker to end this area.


=====================
The Hidden Party: 5-2
=====================

You will now be in the northern
part of the city, which is
heavily guarded too. Begin by
heading east and killing the
guards in your way. Go under the
arch and kill two more, than go
up the steps to the north and
kill an archer above. Get back
down and continue eastward, and
you will see a spike trap with
two rows pointing out at a time.
Move upward directly behind a
row of spikes and you should
make it through to the
checkpoint.

At the other side, climb the
rope ladder and jump across to
the other one. Drop to the
ground and you will see fire
traps ahead. Push the crate onto
the fire directly south of you,
then jump from the crate to the
middle area. Jump across the
second gap, going around the
moving flames, and head through
the marker. Wall climb onto the
rooftop to the east and you will
claim a checkpoint. Walk across
a thin beam, passing the
swinging boulders when it's safe
to do so. At the other end, wait
for the wall spikes to retract
before jumping to the north and
sliding down to the ground
below.

Kill the guards and you will be
shown some ledges overhead. Wall
jump from the northeast wall to
reach the ledges, then hop
across to the safe platform.
Over there, drop off the edge of
the thin beam to the south and
climb to the west while hanging
on, then climb back up at the
other side. From there, jump to
the west rooftop and run/jump to
the southern rooftop, where you
will find a checkpoint. Kick
down the bridge and run across
to another checkpoint, then
continue eastward jumping across
rooftops until you are spotted
and the bridge ahead is raised.

Head north and kill two guards,
then climb the north ladder and
kill three more on the high
rooftop. Once they are gone,
head east and swing with the
Grappling Hook across the wide
gap (you will have to jump and
press A to swing from the second
point). At the far end, go
through a checkpoint, then slide
down the slanted roof and walk
across the thin beam to the
east. While holding R and facing
east, jump from ledge to ledge
until you reach the checkpoint
on the safe ledge. Following the
same pattern, but this time
avoiding the spikes that come
out of the wall, head to the
west across some new ledges. At
the far end, go around the
corner and climb onto the
rooftop above.

Up here, carefully walk along
the north wall to the east; that
way you can sneak up on the
templar and assassinate him from
behind by pressing A when
prompted. Regardless of how you
do it, head east and then jump
to the southern rooftop. Climb
down the rope ladder on the
south edge, jumping to the next
rope ladder to the west. When
you reach the platform below
safely, jump to the western
ledge and walk southward along
the thin beam. When you get to
the rooftop, you will fall
through, so kill the guards in
the room below. After that, go
west to find someone who will
help you by opening a nearby
door.

There are now four switches you
need to hit in order to progress
further. Exit by heading east,
then go up the ramp and kill the
guard and archer at the top.
Climb the ladder and you will
find a checkpoint atop the roof
there. Slide down the slanted
roof to the east and you will
see the four crates and switches
in the area ahead. Begin by
going east and climbing the rope
ladder to a high ledge. Push the
crate southward so it falls to
the ground below, then climb
down the south rope ladder. Jump
to the thin beam to the south
and walk along it, then jump to
the next one to the west. Jump
to a square platform to the
south and to the next thin beam
to the west. Face the south and
while holding R, jump to the
southern ledge and climb onto
it. Push the crate that's there
off to the ground below.

Now that all the crates are on
ground level, drop to the ground
and kill the guards. Then, push
each crate onto each of the four
switches to drain the moat,
revealing a hidden passage. Head
east and drop into the drained
area, then enter the passage to
trigger a checkpoint. In here,
step on the floor switch and a
door farther ahead will open.
You have a limited time to reach
it, so quickly jump/climb across
the first set of platforms. You
will find a box of daggers along
the way, so take some if you
need to. When you can't go any
further, you will be prompted to
throw a dagger at the wall
switch ahead. Switch to your
daggers by touching them on your
screen below, then throw one at
the east target. Jump to the
east and south, then head
eastward by jumping across the
moving ledges and head through
the doorway.

You will encounter Lord Basilisk
in this room, and therefore will
enter into a battle against him.
Don't worry though, since a
checkpoint activates as soon as
you enter here. This battle is
actually really simple, but the
key is to avoid outright
attacking him. Let him come to
you, and you will see a prompt
to press Y. Do so and you will
stun him; get behind him and
press X when prompted, and
finally Y again to perform your
attack. Do this a couple times
and Altair will escape with the
key, thus ending this area. You
will learn a new skill,
Explosive bombs, as well as the
sword technique Leg Cutter.


=====================
Kill the Killers: 6-1
=====================

When you start off this new
area, you will be back on the
streets of Jerusalem. You need
to find a shop, so head eastward
to witness a scene where your
friend from earlier is killed by
a templar who steals the map he
found. Your next goal is of
course to retrieve the map from
the templars. Exit to the east
and you will be framed as the
killer, and thus the villagers
will throw stones at you. If you
attack them, they will stop.
Anyway, kill the guards as you
make your way eastward along the
winding path.

When you reach the end of the
path, climb onto the east
rooftops to trigger a
checkpoint. Jump to another
rooftop to the north, then walk
eastward along a thin beam,
avoiding the swinging boulder as
you cross. Kill the archer and
walk southward, avoiding another
swinging boudler, then jump to
the southern ledge and kill the
guard there. Walk along the next
thin beam and pass the swinging
boulders after they swing by.
When you reach the next rooftop,
head east and swing from the
rope to another rooftop, where
you will find a checkpoint.

Head east across another thin
beam and avoid the boulders,
then kill an archer and a
regular guard at the other end.
Head north, walking across
another beam, and jump across
the gap to reach the other side
as well as yet another
checkpoint. You will be spotted,
and as such, fire catapults will
be used to attack, plus more
guards will be around to stop
you. Go east and jump across to
the next rooftop, then quickly
follow the path around to the
next marker. Ignore the guards
since if you fight them, you
will risk getting hit by a
flaming boulder! Go east and
swing with the Grappling Hook,
then jump and swing/jump again
to reach the far ledge.

Walk/jump across the thin beam
and kill the archer to the
south. Then, head north and west
to find another archer to kill.
Head north and kill a guard,
then go east and kill another
guard. Go east and walk across a
thin beam, then jump to the next
one. Take the southern path
along the next one and jump to a
safe ledge with a checkpoint on
it. Run to the south and east,
being careful not to fall
through the collapsing roofs. At
the end, run and jump to a pole
to the east, then jump from it
to the next ledge.

Jump to the north and use the
pole to reach a thin beam. Hold
R to land on it, then go west
and kill an archer on the
rooftop. Run to the northwest
corner of the roof and jump to
the north, then jump eastward
across the ledges and climb onto
the high ledge next to the large
city gate. At this point, the
gate will be closed, and this
level will end.


=====================
Kill the Killers: 6-2
=====================

At the start of this stage, you
will see a number of archers
ahead on the map. Head east and
you will see the archers in the
distance, who will shoot the tar
barrels. They will explode soon
after being hit, so keep your
distance to avoid damage. Kill
the first wave of guards and
head eastward. Cross an unstable
platform as you head south and
east, then kill some more guards
and an archer. There are two
crates nearby, and an arrow
pointing to the top of the high
wall. Stack the two crates, then
jump from them to reach the high
rooftop and a checkpoint.

Drop off the east side and the
floor will shake due to the
barrels below it being ignited.
Move to the east quickly and
kill the guard, then jump and
hang from a pole to the east.
When the swinging boulder is out
of the way, jump to the next
pole and onto the safe ledge.
Walk across the thin beams
ahead, jumping across the gaps
and avoiding the boulders along
the way. Hang from the beams
ahead and jump across the wide
gap, then hold R to land on the
last beam. Walk ahead to find a
checkpoint, then go forward to
find two switches and some
guards. Kill the guards in this
area before you go for the
switches.

The switches are on the lower
level; place crates on each of
them to lower the spikes
blocking access to the path
ahead. Head to the northeast to
trigger a checkpoint, then move
quickly since the barrels you
pass will explode and the
platforms are not sturdy at all.
Kill the two guards at the end
of the trap, then jump to the
rope to the east. Swing and
jump, then press A to use the
Grappling Hook. Swing and jump,
pressing A again to swing a
third time. From there, jump to
the rooftop and you will land in
a checkpoint. You must be fast
here, or else the archers in the
distance will hit you, causing
you to fall and die.

Kill the two guards ahead, then
you will notice a raised bridge
ahead. You need to lower it, and
the method may be learned by
checking the obelisk nearby.
Step into the marker and you
will read the riddle:

"When the clouds block the sun,
the lightning will purge the
unclean and the path will open
for those who are worthy!"

If you walk down the stairs to
the area below, you will see
three switches. Press them in
the following order: middle
(clouds), left (sun), and right
(lightning). If you did it
correctly, the bridge will be
lowered. So, head back up the
stairs and continue across the
bridge, triggering a checkpoint
as you cross. At the other end,
evade the archer fire while you
kill a guard and a templar.
Then, use the catapult to kill
the archer in the distance. Walk
to the north across a thin beam,
then climb onto the upper ledge
and kill the first snake to get
a checkpoint. Go north and kill
more snakes, and drop to the
lower area where you must kill
even more snakes.

From here, head south and drop
to the lower area and kill the
guards you meet. Jump onto a
southwest ledge and kill the
snakes there, then jump/climb
onto the rooftop. Kill an archer
and climb onto the next rooftop,
and head through the marker to
claim a checkpoint. Walk along
the thin beams, jumping across
the gaps when you come to them,
all while avoiding the swinging
boulders. When you reach the
western rooftop, take the
checkpoint and walk onto the
next thin beam. You need to
quickly move and jump along the
beams since the archers below
will be shooting down the beams
you are standing on. Make it to
the other side and you will
trigger yet another checkpoint.

Next, climb to the upper rooftop
to the north, and jump to the
west. Jump to the second ledge
and slide down to the ground,
where you will be facing two
templars. Kill them and you will
be faced with another puzzle in
the form of a map on the ground
and three switches. There is a
hollow needle pointing northward
and three colored orbs on three
discs that move when you step on
the switches. First, step on the
east switch until you see the
yellow orb on the map inside the
needle arrow. Then, press the
west switch until the blue orb
is lined up in the hollow
needle. Finally, step on the
center switch until all three
are lined up.

Once the orbs are lined up
correctly, the door to the west
will open. When you enter the
room, you will get a checkpoint.
Inside here, there will be an
archer on an isolated platform
in the middle of the area.
Several guards will come out to
attack you while the archer
constantly shoots at you to
attack. Hide behind one of the
pillars out of the archer's line
of sight, and kill the guards
quickly. You will regain health
by the red orbs each one drops,
which will help. As you kill the
guards, some sections of floor
will emerge, giving you more
room to move. After a while, you
will be able to approach the
archer himself, so do so and
kill him to complete this area.


=====================
Kill the Killers: 6-3
=====================

Out on the bridge, simply run to
the west until you enter the
room. After a conversation with
another assassin, you will have
to fight a number of guards.
Kill them and you will notice
the counterweights to the
central pillar. There are four
levers, one in each corner; go
to each and pull them to lower
an elevator in the center area.
Step into the marker and you
will ride on upstairs. You will
now fight the enemy assassin, so
engage him in battle. Deplete
1/2 of his health and he will
run away, leaving you to fight
the guards in the room.

Kill the guards and head south
to end up outside. Follow the
path going eastward and go
around the corner to reach a
checkpoint. Jump across the gap
by hanging from the flag poles
and jumping between them. At the
other side, go around another
corner to find the second
checkpoint. This time, get
across the gap by jumping from
five poles. Climb to the upper
ledge ahead to find a third
checkpoint, and jump across
three more flag poles, being
cautious of the spikes (jump
across when the spikes retract).
At the other side, take the
checkpoint and you will find a
series of walls you must climb,
and spinning blades you must
avoid.

Luckily, you will be able to see
the tracks that the spinning
blades run on, so they won't
entirely be a surprise. When you
reach a portion with a track on
it, wait for the blade to appear
and start moving in the other
direction before you quickly
climb along that section of
wall. Be quick to make progress
and climb onto a safe section to
avoid dying by the blade. Make
your way all the way up the wall
in this manner. At the top, go
through a checkpoint and round
the corner, then do this again
on another wall. Climb down to
the tracks and wait for both
blades to move to the east side,
then quickly climb your way to
the far west and southward. When
you reach the next blade, take
the east path along the wall so
you land on the perch above the
doorway. Drop down and kill two
guards, then head inside.

As soon as you step inside and
claim a checkpoint, you will be
faced with a templar and a
guard. Kill them both and head
east to exit the prison. Go
through the checkpoint and cross
the bridges, killing the
templars and guards along the
way around. When you reach the
end of the path, you will face
off against the enemy assassin a
second time. Bring his health
down to 50% and he will again
run away, leaving you to fight
two guards. Kill them and you
will be back inside with the
assassin.

He will have a simple puzzle for
you to solve in here, in order
for you to proceed. Pull the two
levers on the ground level, then
go up the ramp to the upper
area. Jump/walk across the thin
beams on the west and east sides
and pull those two levers. Get
to the center platform and head
southward to a checkpoint, then
you will fight the assassin one
last time. Kill him for good
here and you will retrieve the
map that you came here for. You
will learn the sword technique
Clean Cut, then you will be off
to the Temple of Sand!


===================
Temple Of Sand: 7-1
===================

Starting off in the desert, run
to the east. You will fall into
a hidden cave, so slide down
into the room where you will
find a guard. You will be
introduced to a new use for your
Grappling Hook, as a weapon. If
you are a distance away from an
enemy, you can press A to pull
him closer, then press Y to kill
them while stunned. After you
kill the two guards, head past
the spikes to the east and you
will get a checkpoint. Jump to
the east and south while
avoiding the spikes coming out
of the wall, and kill another
guard. To the east, you will see
ledges that move in and out of
the wall. Run and jump across
them to reach the eastern steps,
then go down to a checkpoint.

Next, jump to the rope and
swing/jump across to the other
side. Wait for the spikes to
retract before climbing onto the
high ledge ahead. Kill some more
guards and head north and east
along the moving platforms. On
the next platform, step on the
switch to impale the templar
with the spikes, then jump to
the east and take the
checkpoint. Jump to the rope and
swing to the east, jumping to
the next rope when the spikes
retract. Repeat this again to
reach the eastern ledge. Kill
the templar there, then wall
jump between the two pillars to
get onto them. Get the
checkpoint atop the right pillar
and jump to the northern ledge.
Do NOT step on the switch in
front of the spikes or you will
die; jump across to make it
safely. To the east, crouch and
roll under the spikes when the
lower ones retract. Get to the
other side and you will find a
checkpoint.

Jump to the lower east ledge and
kill two guards, then walk along
the thin beams to the south. Get
to the second intersections,
moving across when the spikes
retract, then head eastward. At
the end, jump to the safe ledge
and into a checkpoint. From
there, jump onto the raft when
it moves close enough, and ride
it northward. Jump to the next
raft and you will start moving
eastward. Jump over the first
two sets of thorns, crouch under
the third set, and jump over the
fourth. At the waterfall, press
A to swing to the east and jump
onto that platform. Kill the
guards and head southeast to a
checkpoint, and kill some more
further ahead.

Up ahead, you will find a man
who refuses to open the way
forward, so play the
interrogation mini-game to get
some more information. There are
two switches you need to hit, so
head southward first. Jump
across to the south and head
west, killing two guards along
the way. When you reach the
switch, get to the left side of
the pillar and press A to kick
it down, pressing the switch as
a result. Take the checkpoint
and head back to the east. Go up
the steps and jump back to the
north, and head east to a raft.
Ride the raft southward and jump
to the next one to the east,
then repeat when you reach the
third one.

When you reach the east ledge,
jump onto it and you will see a
crate. Push it onto the second
switch and you will open the
other half of the passage. Take
the checkpoint and head back
across the rafts, then go
northward through the now
accessible passage. Go up the
stairs and you will learn a new
skill, the Triple Jump. This
area will then come to a close.


===================
Temple Of Sand: 7-2
===================

Start off by going west and
killing the two guards
immediately ahead of you. Slide
down the slopes ahead, jumping
to the west soon enough to climb
onto the high ledge. Kill the
templar there and head
northward, jumping across the
cracked platforms (it's a good
time to try your triple jump
out). Climb to the west along
the rope ladder and kill the
guard at the other side, then
head up the stairs to reach a
checkpoint.

Up ahead, run past the spikes
when they retract into the
ground briefly, then head
southward and jump the gap while
avoiding the swinging axe. Kill
the guards ahead and go around
the corner to see some blue orbs
in between two walls. Wall jump
to the upper area, where you
will find a checkpoint and more
blue orbs and an urn containing
a red orb. Go west and you will
see some floor switches in front
of spike traps; step on the
switches and die, so run and
jump over each one to get by
safely. Defeat the guards and
templar further along the path
and head through the checkpoint
at the end.

Swing across the gap with the
rope, jumping with enough
momentum to avoid the switch and
the spike trap at the other
side. Go forward to another
checkpoint and the room will
fill with water. Altair will
think about using his bombs to
destroy the other pipe in here.
Head north and climb on the rope
ladder, maneuvering around the
spikes as you progress. When you
get to the ledge at the other
side, switch to your explosive
bombs (use the touch screen) and
drop one right on the other pipe
where the marker is. Get out of
the way and it will explode,
filling the room up even more.

Now, climb back across the rope
ladder and jump to the east
path. Head south and west across
the wooden planks, jumping
across the water when necessary.
At the other side, go north to
the checkpoint. Then, head along
the path and jump over the gaps,
avoiding the swinging axes along
the way. Kill a couple of guards
and head to the north, then
slide down the slope and jump
over the spike pit. Run up the
slope at the other side and you
will encounter the axe- wielding
guy from earlier. Avoid his
attacks and wait for him to
vertically swing the axe into
the ground, then press X when
prompted to kick him back. At
that point, run past and jump
over the gaps to reach a
checkpoint.

To the west, run past the spikes
when the bottom set retracts,
then get past the swinging axe
to reach yet another checkpoint.
Up ahead, you will find a puzzle
with a bunch of tiles, and one
yellow tile. Step on the yellow
tile and another one will turn
yellow. The object here is to
jump onto the next yellow tile
without stepping on any other
tiles. You will have to pull off
a number of long jumps to
succeed (be careful of the
spikes; jump when they retract
to be safe). When you complete
this successfully, go through
the door to reach the next area.

In this next room, head forward
to the golden chest and you will
be confronted by Lord Basilisk.
After a brief chat, he will
leave you to fight two guards.
If you want to run away from
them or fight, you can, but a
sandstorm will come and take you
away very shortly. You will then
end up outside, and must run to
escape the sandstorm. Head east
and climb to the upper ledges,
then run and jump to the east as
sections of ground collapse
ahead of you. When you can't go
directly east anymore, run and
jump northward across the gap to
a checkpoint, then continue
east.

Go up the ramp and down the
steps, then press A to swing
across the wide gap with your
Grappling Hook. At the other
side, take the checkpoint and
walk southward along the thin
beams. Head east and press A to
swing with your hook to another
ledge. Make your way eastward by
jumping over the walls in your
way, and you will find yet
another checkpoint. Next, climb
along the rope ladder to the
east. When you reach the dry
ground at the other end, swing
from the rope and jump to the
checkpoint ahead, then run up
the hill while avoiding the
boulders rolling down towards
you.

Go down the stairs and pass
through a checkpoint, then when
you reach a dead end, roll all
the way east across the cracked
floors to the other side.
Quickly kill the three guards
here (the Battery combo (Y Y X)
works great here). Once they are
dead, go through the doorway and
you will find out that it's time
to revisit Tyre. You will learn
the sword technique Lazy End as
well. After that, you will be
off to Tyre again!


=====================
Great Angry Wall: 8-1
=====================

Upon your return, you will meet
with Hamid who gives you some
bad news about his comrades. You
will be sent to the templar
stronghold to find out what
happened. Begin by heading west
and jumping from ledge to ledge
to the south. Hop onto the
moving platform below, then onto
the ledge ahead to trigger a
checkpoint. Going around the
corner, wait for the water jet
to stop flowing before jumping
to the next ledge. Hold R and
jump to the pole, then jump onto
the moving platform when it's in
front of you. Jump from it to
the next ledge around the corner
and jump to the upper ledge with
the checkpoint on it.

Jump from rope to rope as you
make your way westward, then
climb along the rope ladder to
get around the spikes. Climb
down the other side and head
south, jumping across a couple
ledges and onto another moving
platform. Get the checkpoint and
jump to the western rope. Swing
and jump onto the next moving
platform when it lines up with
you, then jump to the next rope.
When you land on the thin beam
ahead, hold R and jump when the
water jet stops flowing briefly.
Take the checkpoint and you will
see the area up ahead.

To progress, jump to the upper
ledge to the west and then jump
to the rope. Jump to the other
side and climb the rope ladder.
Once you reach the top, press A
when prompted to cut down the
weight. Now, climb back down the
rope ladder and slide down the
slope to the lower area,
collecting a checkpoint at the
bottom. Head west by jumping
across the platforms while
avoiding the water jets coming
out of the walls. At the far
end, jump to the lower ledge and
you will find a checkpoint. Roll
your way to the west, again
avoiding the water jets. Jump to
the rope at the other end, then
swing/jump to a checkpoint on
the next safe platform.

You will now spot a gate, but
you need to go out of your way a
little bit to open it. Go south
and jump to the west, pressing A
to swing with the Grappling
Hook. Jump and swing your way
all the way west until you reach
the checkpoint, then climb the
rope ladder there. Go around the
corner and head north by jumping
over a couple of gaps, then pull
the lever to open the gate. Now,
drop down the west side of this
ledge and climb down the ladder
that unravels. Head south and
jump to the east, then climb
down a rope ladder and drop to
the checkpoint below.

From here, jump to the east
across a couple of ledges, and
swing from the rope and land on
one of the thin beams below
(hold R when landing). Hold R
and jump to the east, then land
on the dock to claim a
checkpoint. Jump to the thin
beam ahead and jump to the right
while holding R, then press A to
swing from the glowing point
above. Swing across to the east
and take the checkpoint when you
land on the next dock, and you
will be back where you started.
Head north onto the moving
platform and jump to the rope
ladder to the east (if you take
the west path, it is a dead
end). Climb up and swing from
the rope to reach the next rope
ladder. Hold R and walk along
the thin beam at the top, and
jump to the west rope ladder.
Climb up and jump to the center
platform in front of the gate,
and this area will come to a
close.


=====================
Great Angry Wall: 8-2
=====================

For this next part, go north
through the opening and head up
the stairs. Head north and kill
an archer who spots you, then
jump to the high ledges on the
west side. Kill a couple of
guards and head west to a
checkpoint before climbing down
a ladder to reach the area
below. Climb to the northern
ledge and kill a couple more
guards and an archer. Head
southwest and climb down another
ladder to reach the next
checkpoint. Jump to the thin
beams nearby and hold R to walk
along them, then jump to the
southern ledge. Go up the steps
and kill the guard on the ledge
ahead. Head west and kill
another guard, and you will be
called upon by a prisoner to
open the cage by pulling a lever
further ahead.

To reach the lever, first climb
onto the western platform and
walk along the thin beam, then
jump to the western rooftop,
collecting the checkpoint as you
land. Kill the guard and head
onto the southeast ledge, then
make your way downward by
dropping down to the lower
ledges and swinging with the
Grappling Hook. At the bottom,
pull the lever to get a
checkpoint and more importantly
to open the cage. Make your way
back to the upper area the same
way you came down, then take the
checkpoint and head northeast to
fight some more guards and
archers. Quickly kill the
archers, then defeat the others.
After that, jump onto the
southeast ledges and jump
southward over the spikes to
reach a checkpoint.

Head to the northeast and press
A when prompted at the marker to
unravel a ladder, freeing the
prisoner. His brother will be
able to help you get into the
Templar's Hold, but he is held
in another cage. Head to the
northeast and jump to the upper
ledge, and the man will press a
switch that will extend a ledge
to the east. Head north through
the opening and pull the lever
to free the other brother, who
will lower another bridge by
pressing a switch by him. Head
back to the south and take the
checkpoint, then head across the
eastern ledge. Run and jump to
the east, then press A to use
the Grappling Hook to swing
across just in time. Climb the
ladder to reach the upper ledge
ahead.

Continue all the way eastward
until you reach the other man
you just freed. He tells you to
get the key from a nearby guard,
so head east and climb down the
ladder to the lower level. Kill
all of the guards and head east
to a ramp. Slide down the ramps
ahead, jumping over the spikes
to avoid certain death, then
take the checkpoint at the end.
Pick up the nearby crate and
carry it to the southeast ledge,
then drop it next to the other
crates to weigh down that
platform. Go north and head east
across the newly raised
platform, avoiding the swinging
boulders along the way. At the
other side, kill a guard and
climb to the northern platforms,
taking the checkpoint at the
top.

Take the steps and the ramp
downward to the east, where you
will find two more guards. Kill
them and head up the ladder to
the east, then walk along until
you reach the sleeping guard.
Pickpocket the key from him,
then kill him if you want before
heading back to the west. Climb
down the ladder and walk into
the marker by the gate to open
it. Step inside and you will
learn a new skill, the Crossbow,
before the level ends.


=====================
Great Angry Wall: 8-3
=====================

At last, you will be inside the
Templar's Hold. You will also
get a chance to use your new
Crossbow weapon on the sleeping
guards below (select the
Crossbow, then tap a guard's
icon on the touch screen to pick
the target, and press Y to
fire). Kill them all for their
orbs, then head down the steps.
Move to the southeast and kill
the guard there before climbing
the ladder. Kill the two archers
and jump to the northern rooftop
to reach a checkpoint. Head
north and jump across to the
ledge where another archer is.
Kill him, then jump back
southward to the opposite
rooftop where the ladder is.

Run and jump to the southeast
(check your map) onto the
platform where the guards are.
Kill them, then pull the four
crates southward to raise the
platform, giving yourself a
checkpoint. There is an
extremely dangerous enemy below,
so wait until he is on the east
side before dropping off to the
west and climbing onto the
rooftop there. Climb the ladder
and drop down to the northern
area, then step into the marker
to get another checkpoint. Jump
onto the platform ahead and
swing/jump from the rope ahead
to the next ledge.

Hang from the edge of this ledge
and climb to the southeast, then
climb onto the ledge with the
blue orb on it. Repeat this
again to get to the ledge with
the marker on it, then jump to
the southern platform. Collect
some orbs and walk to sneak up
on the guard ahead so you can
assassinate him quickly. Go down
the ramp and drop to the lower
ledge to reach a checkpoint.
Next, drop down to ground level
and approach the man, then press
A to do an interrogation mini-
game. Complete it and the man
will tell you where Basilisk may
be found. Head southeast and
enter the building, then climb
the ladder inside to reach a
checkpoint above.

Kill the archer standing nearby,
then head northward along the
thin beam while avoiding the
swinging axes. Jump to the rope
ladder farther to the north and
climb to the rooftop above. Run
up the steep hill and kill an
archer, then jump to the
northeast platform along the
wall to reach a checkpoint. From
here, make your way eastward by
jumping from ledge to ledge,
waiting for the swinging axe to
move before jumping safely
across. Use the Grappling Hook
to swing after the last jump so
you can land on the platform
ahead. Drop to the rooftop below
and head southeast, then drop
down to kill another guard.

Now, head west across some more
ledges, swinging by while
avoiding the boulders and archer
fire. At the far end, kill a
guard and head southward along
the thin beams. Jump from one
beam to the other and continue
south to a checkpoint, then go
east and swing/jump from the
rope to reach another platform.
Walk along the thin beam there
and jump to the east (hold R
while doing so), then jump south
and walk onto the eastern ledge
to reach a checkpoint. Climb
onto the eastern rooftop and
kill two guards there, then head
northeast to the marker. Jump to
the rope and swing/jump
eastward, using the Grappling
Hook to swing further ahead.

Land on the ledge ahead with the
templars on it. Walk behind each
one and assassinate them to
avoid some tough battles, then
slide down the slanted rooftops
and climb down the ladder to
reach Basilisk below. You will
have to do battle with him like
you did before. Do NOT attack
him normally; wait for him to
approach and you will be
prompted to press Y. Do so, then
when you kick him away, press X
when prompted to climb onto his
back. Finally, press Y as soon
as it appears to actually cause
damage to Basilisk. Do this a
few times until he runs away.
Then, head north and up the
steps to end this area.


=====================
Great Angry Wall: 8-4
=====================

Starting off, you will notice a
lot of archers in the area. As
soon as you go down the steps,
you will be in their range of
vision and thus fired upon. Use
your own crossbow to take them
out from a distance, hiding
behind the stacks of crates as
cover. Once you clear the
immediate area of enemies, head
to the northwest corner and pull
the lever to stop the trap
nearby. Head east and wall jump
between the two buildings to
reach the roof and a checkpoint.
Up ahead, wait for the platform
with the spikes to come out,
then quickly drop onto it and
head south to avoid dying.

Go around the building, killing
the archers in your way, then
jump to the eastern rooftop.
Ahead, you will see two
platforms with spikes on the
ends moving in and out
alternately. Wait until the
upper one retracts and jump onto
the higher ledge to the east.
Quickly jump across to the next
ledge and into the marker at the
other side, then slide down the
slanted rooftops to the
checkpoint below. Head east and
collect some orbs, then kill a
couple of guards and climb the
ladder you see. Head east,
jumping across the bridge or
else it will collapse, causing
you to fall and die. At the
other end, take the checkpoint
and you will spot a closed gate
and two floor switches below.

There will be a crate nearby;
push it to the south so it falls
onto the switch below. Climb
down the ladder and kill a
couple of guards, then push the
other crate onto the other
switch to open the gate. Climb
back up the ladder and head
across the thin beam to continue
further. Go through the
checkpoint and kill the guard
ahead, then kill a couple of
archers and a second guard as
you head eastward. Enter the
second caged area and walk onto
the thin beam so you can reach
the rope, then swing/jump to the
next rooftop and a checkpoint
ahead.

Here, quickly run and jump over
the cracked roof before it
collapses and you will trigger
another checkpoint. Kill the
guard ahead, then walk on the
thin beams while avoiding the
swinging hazards. When you reach
the rope ladder, do not climb on
it; instead face east and use
the Grappling Hook to swing
across to another checkpoint on
a small ledge. You will land on
a timed floor switch, so quickly
walk along the thin beam while
avoiding the swinging axe. Then,
walk along the plank to the
east, and you will see another
trap waiting for you. Get past
this corridor by waiting until
the blades swing up or down
before crossing them.

Take the checkpoint at the far
end, then run under the walls as
they rise before they come down
again, crushing you if you are
slow. Roll under the second
wall, then run past the third
one as it rises to reach another
checkpoint. From here, walk onto
the thin beam and jump southward
while holding R and avoiding the
swinging boulder. Head down the
stairs and move westward,
killing four guards along the
way to the door. Go through the
door and step into the marker,
and you will meet Basilisk once
again, triggering a checkpoint
as well.

You will once again have to
battle him, as you would expect.
The battle pattern has not
changed since last time, so
simply wait for him to attack,
then press the buttons as
prompted to cause damage. Hurt
him a couple of times and the
battle will end. Basilisk will
give you some information about
the Chalice being in Jerusalem,
and that he is planning to
poison the people of Acre. You
agree to help, and a checkpoint
is made. Exit the building and
climb the nearby ladder to the
roof. Head around the roof,
jumping over the rows of spikes
you encounter as you head to the
northwest corner of the roof.
Climb down the ladder and kill
the templars, then head west
some more.

Go up all the steps to the south
and west, then run and jump
northward toward the poles
hanging from the wall. Jump from
them to reach the rope ladder
ahead, and climb up to the
rooftop. Use the crank and a
platform will start to lower, so
drop onto it as it passes by to
reach the ground level. Pull one
of the crates back, then roll
into the secret passage to reach
a checkpoint. Go down the stairs
and sneak up on the guard ahead,
killing him quickly. From there,
face south and wait for the
moving platform to appear, then
ride it to the south.

Jump onto the southern platform
and kill another sleeping guard,
then jump across the moving
platforms to the west. Kill yet
another guard up ahead and ride
the moving platforms to the
north and west. Jump onto the
western dock and head west, then
jump to the south until you
reach a dead end. You will see a
pole to the west, so jump onto
it and hold R as you jump across
to the dock at the far side.
When you land safely, you will
claim a checkpoint. Head north
and jump onto the first ledge,
then jump across to the west as
the other platforms rise from
the water.

When you reach the dock up
ahead, get a running start and
jump over the gap to the south.
Head up the ramps to exit the
underground passage and take a
checkpoint. Pull one of the
crates back and roll out to the
southeast, then once you are
outside, head to the west. Kill
the guards and continue onward
until you reach another
checkpoint and the port up
ahead. Your next goal is to burn
down the ships, but there are
still guards and templars
around. Kill the templars from a
distance with your crossbow if
you can, then finish off the
easier guards up close. There
will be boxes with torches in
them; take the torches and throw
them at the ships to set them
ablaze.

Now that you have sunk
Basilisk's ships, half of your
mission is over. You will
receive a couple of new skills,
Smoke Bombs and Bash. You will
then witness a quick cutscene of
a city burning in the distance.
Finally, you will get a new
sword technique, the Dervish.
From here, it's off to Acre!


===================
Flow of Poison: 9-1
===================

When you arrive at Acre, you
will notice the flames and a
crumbling building ahead of you.
Some guards will spot you, and
you will be able to try out the
Smoke Bombs if you want. You
don't have to; personally I
killed them for their red and
blue orbs. After that, head west
and climb onto the rooftops
above. Get a good running start
and head east, jumping over the
wide gap to the next rooftop. To
the south, hang from the poles
as you jump southward to the
first checkpoint. Drop to the
lower roof and walk onto the
thin beam, then jump to the east
and collect some more orbs.

Continue dropping off the
rooftops to the ground below,
then kill the guards while
avoiding the fireballs raining
from above. To the north, you
will see a line of orbs going up
the side of a wall. Push the
nearby crate against the wall
under the orbs, then jump and
climb onto the ledge above,
claiming a checkpoint as well.
Continue climbing onto the
higher rooftops to the east, and
killing an archer when you come
to him. Jump across the gap to
the south and kill the other
archer, then drop to the
southeast perch. Use your
crossbow to kill the guards
below, then jump to the east and
swing/jump across the ropes to
the far side.

Kill an archer on the next
rooftop and head northward along
the thin beams, then drop down
and kill the other archer. Slide
down the ramp to the west and
drop to the ground below, then
head all the way east until you
are met by some guards. Kill
them and continue eastward to
the end, then jump/climb onto
the northern rooftops and you
will reach a checkpoint. Walk
onto the thin beams and jump to
the southern rooftops, and kill
the archers there. Drop onto the
awning below and kill the guards
at ground level that pour into
the area.

Jump onto the eastern awning,
then jump to the north and climb
the ladder upward. Climb onto
the next rooftop to the north
and walk along the slanted
rooftop to the south. Kill the
guard and continue south to a
checkpoint, then swing to the
east with the Grappling Hook.
Jump to the next rooftop and
walk to the north along the thin
beam, avoiding the swinging
boulders and fireballs along the
way. Get into the building ahead
and head west, dropping through
the floor ahead to reach the
ground. Kill the guards and head
east to the marker, then you
will see orbs between two
buildings to the north. Wall
jump your way upward and take
the checkpoint on the roof.

Kill the archer and the guard
here, then head southward and
jump across to the southernmost
rooftop, killing an archer
there. Drop to the ground level
to reach yet another checkpoint.
You will see several rows of
flames to the east. Wait until
each one subsides briefly before
jumping over them. When you
reach the next area, you will
see a lever holding a box up
above. Kill the guards and pull
the lever, then jump onto the
box and use it to reach the
north rooftop. Climb onto the
boxes and make your way to the
very top of the area, then head
east to a checkpoint.

There are a series of jumps
ahead that you must execute in
order to progress. Run and jump
to the east across three gaps;
you will be able to make great
use of your triple jump here. At
the other side, get the
checkpoint and head southeast,
dropping onto the small ledges
on the way to the ground level
yet again. When you get down
there, you will have to fight a
very strong templar. Kill him
and you will be told to press A
when running by the shielded
guards to get past them. Run
past them and press A when
prompted to push them aside,
then run to the north to
complete this area.


===================
Flow of Poison: 9-2
===================

As soon as the next area begins,
you will enter battle against
the incoming guards. The guards
will just keep on coming, but
you will notice a catapult just
south of the open gate. Use it
to block the entrance into the
city, keeping the enemies out
for now. So, head to the east
and jump onto the platforms
above. Take the checkpoint on
the highest platform, then walk
along the thin beam and jump to
the ladder to the north. Climb
it and you will see guards
propping up ladders to climb
onto the city wall. Push the
ladders down by pressing A, then
head west and use the ballistas
to fire upon the enemy towers
outside.

After you fire both ballistas,
head to the east and follow the
path southeast onto a slanted
rooftop. Jump to the south and
get the checkpoint, then head
east and you will see an
execution about to take place
below. Use your crossbow to pick
off the templar executioner
(stand on the northeast edge of
the platform to reach him).
Then, go south and drop to the
ground, and kill the guards
there. Jump to the northeast
roof and kill the archer and
guard there, then jump your way
eastward across the rooftops
ahead. Take the checkpoint and
walk onto the thin beam, then
jump to the east while holding
R. All the way east, kill the
archer, then head south and east
along the beams to a checkpoint.
Be sure to avoid the swinging
boulders along the way.

You will spot a woman below
being harassed by the guards.
Head onto the thin beam and
swing to the east, jumping onto
the next rooftop. Go north
across another thin beam,
jumping the gap along the way,
and kill the guard and archer at
the other side. Then, drop down
to the southwest and kill the
guards bothering the woman.
Follow her to the east and kill
some more guards, then kill the
archer on the ground. Since the
other archers are above, head
north and jump/climb onto the
rooftops, killing the archers up
there. Take the checkpoint, then
walk and jump across the thin
beams to the east while avoiding
the boulders.

The last thin beam will be
broken, causing you to slide to
the ground. Go through the
checkpoint at the bottom, and
you will see the way out of the
city blocked off by the attacks.
Kill the guards and head up a
ramp in front of one of the
buildings. Jump to the east
ledge at the top of the hill,
and make your way eastward by
means of climbing a rope ladder
and swinging from a rope and
using the Grappling Hook. When
you reach the far east area, go
around the corner to spot
another ladder propped up
against the wall. Knock it down
and jump to the west rooftop,
and use the ballista to kill the
observers. Continue to the west
and use the next ballista in the
same manner.

Once you knock out the observers
and the ladders, continue down
to the west and approach the
final ladder leading out of the
city, thus completing this area.


===================
Flow of Poison: 9-3
===================

When you arrive at the templar
camp, you will be disarmed by
the guards. Step into the marker
ahead and you will learn about
the ability to disguise yourself
as someone else in order to pass
unnoticed. Head up the path to
the sleeping guard, then sneak
up behind him and assassinate
him to take his clothing. Now
that you are dressed as a guard,
you will be fine, but you need
to walk instead of run to avoid
being spotted as a fake. So,
walk your way to the east until
you reach the next marker and
the checkpoint.

In the camp ahead, continue
walking along, making sure not
to bump into the guards or they
will discover you. At the end of
the path, you will find two
guards in the way that won't let
you by. You will need to
distract them, so head back west
while following the green arrow.
When you see the crates, climb
over to spot a box of Explosive
Bombs. Take one and place it by
the crates with the fire icon on
them, then move away quickly
before it explodes. That will
cause the camp to go up in
flames, so walk to the east and
the guards will have moved.
Continue eastward and you will
reach a checkpoint.

In this next area, your current
wardrobe won't help you, so go
east and hide behind a large
rock to evade the guards. You
will notice the trebuchet that
you can tamper with, so do so
and hide behind the rock again
when the guards walk back
towards you. They will realize
the trebuchet is broken and will
wander off, so head north and
hide behind the tent to the
west. When the guards pass, walk
to the east and you will trigger
a checkpoint. Up ahead, you will
see that only scholars can get
past the next gate, but there
are plenty of soldiers you need
to avoid here. Head to the next
marker and wait for the soldier
nearby to walk to the north,
then quickly walk past him to
the next marker.

When you get past all of the
soldiers in this manner, walk to
the scholar and assassinate him
to get his clothes. To blend in
with the other scholars, you
need to press and hold A when
you are near them. Do this to
get through the gate ahead. In
the next area, walk to the east
and you will spot two sleeping
guards by the gate protecting
the siege weapons. Sneak up
behind them and assassinate
them, then check the gate to
find out it's locked. Press A in
front of it to kick it down,
then walk into the area beyond
it. Take an Explosive Bomb from
the box and place it in the
marker, then move away from it
before it explodes. It will
light the siege weapons on fire,
so now you need to escape; run
to the east to exit the camp.


===================
Flow of Poison: 9-4
===================

In this new area, walk to the
east and the guards will leave
you alone. When you reach the
marker, a templar will let you
pass if you give him the key to
a nearby cage. Walk back to the
west and you will find the man
you need to pickpocket. Sneak up
behind him and pickpocket the
key from him, then bring it to
the templar guard to gain
further access onward. Continue
to the east and you will get a
checkpoint, too. Up ahead, you
will find two guards who won't
let you pass, so you will need
to sneak into the nearby tent.

Head back to the cage the guard
unlocked, and walk behind it to
enter the tent. You will find a
prisoner being questioned on the
table in here; sneak behind the
guard and assassinate him. Then,
to create the diversion, open
all of the cages to free the
prisoners. Now that the guards
are scrambling to recapture
them, exit the tent and walk to
the east to reach a checkpoint.
There is another trebuchet about
to be fired, but you don't have
a weapon to kill the guards with
yet. Climb the ladder, then
sneak up on the archer and
assassinate him to get his
Crossbow. Now, head east to the
overlook and kill the five
guards below.

Now that the coast is clear,
climb back down to the ground
and head northeast to a
checkpoint. Up ahead, you will
need to sneak past the guards by
hiding behind a series of tents.
Walk behind the first tent and
wait for the guard to walk away,
then walk to the next marker
behind the second tent. Repeat
this until you reach the last
tent, then all of the guards
will be called away. Only one
guard will remain, so sneak up
behind him and assassinate him.
Kick open the gate and head east
to another checkpoint.

You will witness a scene with
one of the guards addressing the
other guards below. After the
guards leave, he will call you
up to give your blessing as a
"scholar". Head up there and you
will expose yourself as the
assassin you are, and a battle
will commence. Kill the tough
guard and the guards that climb
up from the sides, and your job
here will be done. However, your
way out is blocked, so head to
the northeast and you will reach
a catapult. You will then
witness Altair's great escape
from the templar camp, thus
completing this area. You will
learn the Stone sword technique,
and then you'll be off to
Jerusalem again.


======================
The Running Wind: 10-1
======================

Back in Jerusalen, your mission
will be to find the Chalice in
Don Carvaggio's villa. You will
need to close the gates before
the guards arrive, being that
the woman Adha is the Chalice.
So, begin by heading east,
holding R while jumping across
the thin beams. When you can't
go east anymore, head north and
continue eastward by jumping
across a couple of rooftops
until you reach a checkpoint.
Get a running start and jump to
the south, then swing to the
east with your Grappling Hook.
Jump across the rooftops and
swing/jump from the ropes ahead,
then you will reach another
checkpoint.

For this next part, head north
and east across the thin beams,
jumping over the gaps and
avoiding the swinging axes. Make
your way south and to the east,
and you will reach a checkpoint
on the platform ahead. Jump to
the east and north across
several platforms, then jump to
the rope ladder on the east
wall. Climb it to the top, then
jump to the west ledge and into
yet another checkpoint. Head
south across some more thin
beams, then head east and swing
with the Grappling Hook to cross
the gap. Jump to the next ledge
and a checkpoint, and
assassinate the sleeping guard
there. Take an Explosive Bomb
from the box on the ledge, then
head northward along the thin
beams. Turn to the east and jump
to the first pillar. Jump to the
second pillar to the south and
you will get a checkpoint.

Hold R and walk to the east
along the rope to the next
pillar. Place an Explosive Bomb
on that pillar, then walk back
across the rope to avoid the
blast. The guards will become
worried, but you're fine, so
walk back across the rope again
to claim a checkpoint. Then,
jump to the next pillar and
follow the markers and arrows as
you continue towards the east.
The guards will finally spot
you, so keep moving until you
reach the three glowing points
and the far ledge. Jump down to
the east and press A at the
right time to swing with your
Grappling Hook. Jump and swing
your way to the eastern ledge by
going across these glowing
points.

When you land at the checkpoint,
the guards below will run ahead.
So, head south and jump to the
east, sliding down the slanted
ledges to reach the ground level
and a checkpoint. Kill the
guards as you head all the way
east. When you reach the end,
assassinate the sleeping guard
and pull the switch to open up
the sewers. Altair will tell
Adha to go hide in the sewers,
so after she leaves, drop into
the nearby sewer opening as
well. You will learn the Chest
Breaker sword technique, and
this area will end.


=================
The Chalice: 11-1
=================

Down in the sewers, Adha will be
on the distant platforms, but
you both need to make it through
the sewers. If you tap the guard
icons on the touch screen, you
can have Adha throw daggers to
attack them as well. Anyway,
head east and kill the two
guards on the next platform.
Adha will pull a switch, so
continue eastward and you will
find a floor switch. You will
find that you need a weight to
keep the gate open, so Adha will
send a crate your way. Pull it
on the switch so you can
continue onward to a checkpoint.

Adha's next lever pull will send
a raft in your direction. When
it moves to the south, jump onto
it and then onto the following
ledge. Adha will try to find her
own way through the tunnels, so
head east and you will find a
treasure chest. Blow into the DS
microphone until you are
prompted to press A, then open
it to collect some blue orbs.
Head north and Adha will appear
to have reached a dead end. Not
to worry though; take an
Explosive Bomb from the box and
throw it at the pillar to the
north (you will have to hold Y
and Up while standing at the
edge of the platform to reach
it). It will take two of the
bombs to clear the pillar.

Once the pillar is clear, Adha
will be able to pull the next
lever, stopping the water in
your path. Head to the southeast
and climb onto the upper ledge
to reach the checkpoint, then
wait for the water to stop
before proceeding further. There
will be several rafts floating
back and forth here; jump across
them one at a time when they
move close enough to each other,
and you will make it across.
From the last raft, jump to the
rope ladder and climb onto the
ledge to reach a checkpoint.

Ahda will ask you for help with
the tunnels, so jump to the
north and head east. You will
see guards appear behind you, so
kill them and continue east to
find three switches. Step on
each of them to stop the water
jets, allowing her to continue.
Jump onto the moving platform to
the east and onto the ledge
beyond it, triggering a
checkpoint as well. Head east
across the bridges, killing the
guards along the way. Go north
at the end and kill another
guard and two archers, then head
north and jump to the east. Take
the checkpoint and Adha will
pull another lever, lowering a
ledge for you.

Run to the east and jump to the
pole she lowered, and while
hanging from it, jump to the
next ledge and take the
checkpoint there. Jump to the
eastern rope ladder and climb
it, then you will see boulders
rolling to the south from the
northern tunnel. Wait for the
first boulder to pass, then run
to the south along the path
while avoiding all of the
debris. Run up the ramp at the
end to avoid being crushed, and
Adha will be again waiting for
you. This time, there are a
series of mirrors shining light
in the area. To solve this
puzzle, there are two floor
switches in front of you that
will rotate two of the mirrors.
Step on the left switch four
times and the right one twice to
complete the puzzle.

Head up the stairs that appear
and you will meet up with Adha
face to face. She will warn you
that a man named Harash was
bought off by the templars. She
will not go with you to Tyre,
but will give you a sword to aid
in killing him.


=================
Snake Heart: 12-1
=================

When you arrive in Alep, head
east and avoid the archers
above. When you reach the
checkpoint, you will find a
guard patrol you will need to
sneak by. Wait for them to face
the east, then quickly walk to
the north and jump onto the
rooftops. Walk along the thin
beams and jump to the east
across some more beams, then
land on the next rooftop and
continue onward through the
checkpoint. Climb down the
ladder and kill the guards
below, but you will be
surrounded by the guards
outside. When they come in, kill
all three of them, then exit to
the east and follow the path
going northward.

Use the Grappling Hook to swing
to the east from the
progressively higher glowing
points, and jump to the rooftop
and checkpoint ahead. Go down
the steps and you will find a
bunch of scholars. Follow them
around the area, pressing A
while near them to blend in. If
you get caught, you just have to
fight some guards, so it's not
too big of a deal. Walk along
with the scholars and press A
when needed as you head
eastward. When you spot the
marker on one of the rooftops,
climb onto it and jump onto the
roof there. Walk behind the
guard and assassinate him after
going through the checkpoint,
and head east by jumping across
a series of narrow ledges. Be
fast or some of them will
collapse!

When you reach the rooftop at
the far end, go through the
checkpoint and drop down to the
eastern area. You will find the
fortress entrance, so now you
need a way in. Head east and you
will decide to destroy the water
supply to force the gates open.
Continue eastward along the
path, then head north and climb
the rope ladder. On the roof,
drop into the opening to enter
the tower. Make your way
downstairs inside the tower,
killing the guards you encounter
along the way. On the bottom
floor, take an Explosive Bomb
from the box and exit to the
west. Drop the bomb on the
target and you will destroy the
water supply, as well as earn
yourself a checkpoint. Kill the
guards that emerge, then head
through the now open gate to
reach the next area.


=================
Snake Heart: 12-2
=================

In this area, Altair will
suggest sneaking around the
guards to avoid detection. This
will work if you walk and stay
out of their range of vision,
but you can kill them just as
easily with less effort. Head
north and up the steps to the
checkpoint, and you will notice
fire blocking your path onward.
If you get a running start, you
can easily jump over the flames.
Kill the guard at the top of the
hill, and head down the other
side of the hill, jumping over
more flames.

Go through the checkpoint at the
bottom and you will notice a
bunch of archers overlooking an
area covered in tar. Head to the
east by following the paths
between the tar pits as quickly
as possible to avoid enemy fire.
When you reach the southeast
corner, kill the guards and head
down the stairs. Run and jump
over the flames and you will
reach another checkpoint. Kill
the guard ahead and you will
borrow his clothes, which will
help you ahead. Jump over the
next row of flames, then walk to
the north past the guards and
enter the building, taking the
checkpoint and orbs as you
enter.

For the first trap, there is a
tar pit you need to cross, and
spikes coming out of the wall.
Wait for the spikes to come out
and retract, then run across the
tar pit by tapping A quickly.
For the next trap, there are
spikes in the walls and flames
on the ground. You need to wait
for the flames to subside AND
the spikes to retract before
running/jumping across. Once you
make it across, take the
checkpoint and jump onto the
first moving platform when it
comes close enough. Jump to the
next one and finally onto the
safe ledge at the far end,
collecting the checkpoint there
as well.

For this next part, there are
several rows of flames to get
past. One row will go down, then
after the following row goes
down, the one behind it goes up
again. Keep this in mind and
hold R as you walk across, one
row at a time. When you make it
across, you will change out of
the guard clothes. Head up the
stairs to a checkpoint, then
sneak up on the guard and kill
him. Continue east and take some
daggers from the box if you
want, otherwise continue onward
to another checkpoint. Go down
the stairs and claim yet another
checkpoint, and you will spot
Harash and one of the templars.

After watching the dealing
between Harash and the other
templar, head southeast and
confront Harash in person. You
will have to do battle with this
fellow assassin and a couple of
guards, so kill them like you
would anyone else. Once the
battle is over, you will head on
out to Tyre.


===================
Always an End: 13-1
===================

As soon as you arrive in Tyre,
you will be confronted by the
templar and a couple of guards.
Kill them all and head to the
northeast. Kill a couple more
guards, then jump across the
water to the east On the docks
ahead, get past the templars and
kill the archers first as they
are the greatest threat, then
kill the templars. Head up the
steps to the east and you will
reach a checkpoint. Jump across
the gap and head eastward,
killing another round of
enemies.

Up ahead, you will see the
guards running onto a ship in an
attempt to curb your progress.
Jump to the north towards the
marker and climb the rope ladder
onto the ship itself. Kill the
archers first, then kill the
guards here. Head up the steps
to the east half of the ship,
then kill the templar and jump
off the ship to the northern
ledge, where you will get a
checkpoint. Head eastward and
kill some more guards and an
archer. Get across this next
boat and Adha will call to you.
Take the checkpoint and walk
across the thin beam to reach
the dock, then keep moving to
the east after you kill another
couple of guards.

Head east onto another ship,
where you will have to once
again kill the various enemies
there. Kill them all, then
disembark to the southeast and
continue onward to a checkpoint.
Walk across the plank to the
next ship, where you will
encounter Basilisk once more.
The battle plan against him is
the same as always; wait for him
to approach, then press the Y
and X buttons when prompted to
cause damage. After you deplete
half of his health, the pattern
will slightly change. After you
do the initial Y attack to knock
him back, press X when prompted
to jump onto Basilisk's back.
Instead of hitting Y right away,
you will have to press X again
when prompted, followed by Y.

If you do it right, you will
finally kill Lord Basilisk! Adha
will unfortunately be taken away
by the templars, so watch the
scene that follows. At this
point, you have completed the
game, so congratulations!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Techniques/Items -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=========
Abilities
=========

Bash Shield/Door: When you run
in front of enemies with their
shields drawn,
    you can press A to knock the
    you to get past them safely 
    same principle works with op

Blend: In certain areas, you
will find groups of scholars
wandering around.
 If you are near them, you can p
 to avoid detection by the guard
 walking, not running, while doi

Take Appearance: Also in certain
areas of the game, you will need
to take the
    garments of another person i
    such areas, you simply need 
    and you will automatically c

Triple Jump: When you run and
jump, you will be able to jump
higher if you
   jump again immediately after 
   in quick succession, you will
   enable you to jump across wid
   as well.

Wall-Climb: When you jump
towards a wall, you will
seemingly stick to it.
   Press upward and you will cli
   enable you to reach ledges th
normal jumps allow you to reach.

Wall-to-Wall: When you jump
towards a wall and are hanging
there, simply
   press B and you will jump bac
   walls, you can do this repeat


==============
Skills (Items)
==============

Crossbow: With this, you can
shoot arrows to instantly kill
enemies from a
  distance. When you select this
  with a green circle around the
  the guard you want to target, 
  is green, you will be able to 

Daggers: Throw poisonous daggers
to temporarily stun your
enemies. You can
  carry up to 15 at one time.

Explosive Bombs: When you drop
one of these, a timer will
appear in the
    corner of the screen. Once t
    explode, killing any nearby 
    crucial points in the game t
    You can either drop them str
    throw them by holding a cert

Grappling Hook: When you reach a
glowing green point, you will be
able to
    press A. This hook will enab
    so you can cross wide gaps a

Smoke Bombs: Drop these and a
thick smoke cloud will appear,
confusing
   enemies for a limited time, a


================
Sword Techniques
================

Battery
    How to Use: Y + Y + X
    Description: This is a combo
    jump kick, knocking the enem
    the most effective technique
    effective against any enemy 

Chest Breaker
    How to Use: R + B
    Description: When used as a 
    face, knocking them back and
    damage.

Dervish
    How to Use: Y + X + X
    Description: This is another
    kick, knocking any nearby en
    useful when you are surround

Heavy Blows
    How to Use: X + X
    Description: This attack is 
    it connects, it is much more

Quick Strikes
    How to Use: Y + Y + Y
    Description: You perform thr
    This is the standard type of

Stone
    How to Use: X + X + Y
    Description: You will perfor
    the end product results in a
    situations, it may not be us
    bring down an enemy, it can 

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Secrets/Tips and Tricks  
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

======================
Unlock Hard Difficulty
======================

To unlock the hard difficulty
setting, you must fully complete
the game.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Copyright Notice -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2008
Devin Morgan. All rights
reserved. Please view the
following URL to see the list of
sites that are allowed to post
my work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/
allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites
I know and trust well. If your
site is not on the
aforementioned list, you are
currently not allowed to post
any of my files on your site.
Please respect my work and do
not steal it or post it without
my permission. I only want my
most recent work to be available
and I do not feel that can be
achieved if others take from me
without my knowledge or
permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for
this game as well, and would
like to use some information,
credit me for what you use.
Please do not rip me off, as
that is blatant plagiarism and
such will not be tolerated.

If you wish to contact me, do so
at dbmfaqs(at)gmail(dot)com.
Please only contact me if there
are corrections to be made to
information that's currently
included. Thanks!

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features
/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=