┌-------------------------------
│ version 1.01 March 9, 2007 │ │
BLEACH DS 2ND: KOKUI HIRAMEKU
REQUIEM │
│                              F
│ by Sixfortyfive patrick AT
sixfortyfive DOT com │
└-------------------------------

This FAQ is meant to serve as a
translation and gameplay guide
for Treasure and Sega's Bleach
DS 2nd: Kokui Hirameku Requiem.
I intend to cover everything
required to play the game
competently and unlock all
characters and features, but I
will not be providing either a
detailed story translation or
in-depth strategy for any single
character in this guide, though
I may be writing a few separate
guides for individual characters
later.

This document is encoded in
Japanese Shift-JIS format. In
order to properly display
Japanese characters in your
browser, you must set its
character encoding to Shift-JIS.
In Internet Explorer and
Firefox, this should be located
somewhere in the View menu. If
you cannot find a selection for
Japanese Shift- JIS, you may
have to download a language pack
for your browser. Windows XP is
capable of displaying Japanese
fonts out of the box. Go to
Control Panel > Regional and
Language Options > Languages,
make sure that Install Files for
East Asian Languages has a
checkbox, and click either OK or
Apply.

I will likely be participating
in Bleach DS 2nd threads at
GameFAQs and platformers.net, as
well as discussing the game at
the quasi-official Bleach DS IRC
channel as I add more
information to this guide. If
you believe you can supply any
additional useful information to
this guide or if you find a
mistake in this document that
needs to be corrected, please
let me know either by posting at
one of the above locations or by
e-mailing me directly. For now,
the most recently updated
version of this guide can be
found at my website (http://www.
sixfortyfive.com/temp/bleachds2n
d.txt). It will be updated on
GameFAQs as each major revision
or addition is made.

┌-------------------------------
│ TABLE OF CONTENTS             
└-------------------------------
   I. What's New Since Bleach DS
  II. Reference
 Character Roster
  Returning Characters
  New Characters
  Cameo Appearances
 Lexicon
  Full List
  Shorthand Variations
 III. How To Play
 Gameplay Screens
  Top Screen
  Touch Screen
 Character Control
  Movement
  Defense
  Offense
 Tips & Basic Strategy
 Reifu & Reiju
  Reifu List
  Reiju List
 Simple Mode
  IV. Menu Translation & Options
 Extended Main Menu
 Rule Settings
   V. Story Mode
 Walkthrough
  Part A
  Part B
  Part C
  Part D
 Unlocks and Rewards
  VI. VS Mode
 Wi-Fi Connection
  After Logging into Nintendo Wi
  Friend Code Settings
 VII. Other Game Modes
VIII. Deck Construction
  IX. Urahara Shop & Gallery
 Urahara Shop
 Gallery
   X. Get Your Game On - Bleach 
 Using mIRC
 Using Trillian
 Using TinyIRC
 Using Java IRC
XI. Credits, Legal Junk, and
Version History

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION I: WHAT'S NEW SINCE
BLEACH DS 1ST? │
└-------------------------------

Bleach DS 2nd is mostly an
expansion and refinement of the
original Bleach DS. The basic
gameplay system is mostly
unchanged, all of the non-
duplicate characters have
returned, several more have been
added to the roster, and various
tweaks have been made here and
there.

While the move sets for each of
the returning characters are
mostly similar with a few new
specials added here and there,
the control behavior for most of
them have changed drastically. A
lot of infinite combos are gone;
those that remain are harder to
pull off. Most non-RF specials
have much greater start-up or
cool-down time, making it
particularly difficult to combo
to or from some of them. If
you've put a lot of time into
mastering any particular
characters in the original game,
you'll likely have to change
your strategy and relearn a few
things to get yourself up to
speed in the sequel.

Most of the changes to specific
characters are for balance
purposes. Just about every
significant issue present in the
original game has been
addressed. Kenpachi no longer
has infinite teleport ability or
stackable Super A. Aizen's
fireball normals have been
replaced with sword techniques
and his specials now have RF
variations. Soifon's crouching
kick and ninja summons have been
nerfed considerably. Uryu's
Ransoutengai is now an RF
technique, and he can't string
as many arrow volleys together
at once. Yachiru's normal
attacks are slower and she
occasionally trips on her own.
Unfortunately, some characters
who didn't need to be nerfed
were made weaker anyway. Orihime
now takes 1.5x damage, for
example.

While a good number of new
characters in Bleach DS 2nd
mostly seem to have been added
for the purpose of padding the
Story Mode with generic opponent
characters, those who do stand
out among them add a lot of
variety to the roster. Iduru has
a number of command throws and
counter techniques. Rangiku has
some nice ash cloud setups. Don
Kanonji is a better fighter than
he has any right to be. Some
characters who had sparse
movesets in the original Bleach
DS have been upgraded. Hollow
Ichigo now has a unique moveset.
Nemu, Yachiru, Tatsuki, and Kon
have a little more variety in
special attacks now. Bonnie has
normal attacks.

You can now see your opponents'
reiryoku gauges. You can no
longer use flash steps to pass
through enemy RF specials. You
can no longer damage cancel out
of a super during the moment it
is cast, which makes for a much
more aggressive pace to battles
in particular. Throws can now be
performed in mid-air but are now
more difficult to perform; they
require two button presses and
more precise positioning.
Several hitboxes have been
modified; most attacks that used
to hit in front and behind the
player simultaneously no longer
do so. Some super attacks now
vary in behavior depending on
what button is pressed to
perform them.

Steps have been taken to prevent
touch screen abuse. You must
wait a few seconds after using a
special attack hotkey in order
for it to become active again.
You cannot use guard cancel
techniques via the touch screen.
The reifu system has been
overhauled and the most abused
cards have been thrown out
altogether.

The story mode in Bleach DS 2nd
appears to be a non-canon
sidestory that takes place at
the end of the Soul Society arc
of the series. It contains
several minigame-esque stages,
some pseudo-sidescrolling beat-
em-up stages, and fights against
hollows who are also playable
characters themselves. The Wi-Fi
versus mode has been improved.
You can now rematch opponents
after each fight, add them to
your rivals list without
obtaining their code, leave
messages for others on your
friend/rival list, play card-
less ranking matches, and play
special event matches held by
Sega periodically. Challenge
Mode has not made a return. Time
Attack Mode is now 6 stages
instead of 20. You regain some
life in Survival Mode after each
match now, which makes it
considerably easier.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION II: REFERENCE │
└-------------------------------

┌------------------┐
│ CHARACTER ROSTER │
└------------------┘
Surnames are listed first to
match the kanji on the left. The
only character from Bleach DS 1
who does not appear in Bleach DS
2nd is the masked version of
Komamura. This isn't
particularly noteworthy, as he
played identically to the
unmasked version anyway.

- RETURNING CHARACTERS -

黒崎一護 Kurosaki, Ichigo 朽木ルキア
Kuchiki, Rukia 井上織姫 Inoue,
Orihime 石田雨竜 Ishida, Uryu 茶渡泰虎
Sado, Yatsutora (Chad) 志波岩鷲
Shiba, Ganju 阿散井恋次 Abarai, Renji
朽木白哉 Kuchiki, Byakuya 市丸ギン
Ichimaru, Gin 更木剣八 Zaraki,
Kenpachi 日番谷冬獅郎 Hitsugaya,
Toushiro 雛森桃 Hinamori, Momo 東仙要
Tosen, Kaname 狛村左陣 Komamura,
Sajin 涅マユリ Kurotsuchi, Mayuri
京楽春水 Kyoraku, Syunsui 浮竹十四郎
Ukitake, Jushiro 砕蜂 Soifon
山本元柳斎重國 Yamamoto-Genryusai,
Shigekuni 四楓院夜一 Shihoin,
Yoruichi 藍染惣右介 Aizen, Sousuke
涅ネム Kurotsuchi, Nemu 黒崎一護(虚化)
Kurosaki, Ichigo (Hollow) 草鹿やちる
Kusajishi, Yachiru
コン                 Kon
ボニーちゃん         Bonnie
有沢たつき           Arisawa, Tatsuki

- NEW CHARACTERS -

蒲原喜助 Urahara, Kisuke 斑目一角
Madarame, Ikkaku 吉良イヅル Kira,
Iduru 山田花太郎 Yamada, Hanataro
松本乱菊 Matsumoto, Rangiku ドン・観音寺
Don Kanonji 志波空鶴 Shiba, Kukaku
檜佐木修兵 Hisagi, Shuhei 紬屋雨
Tsumugiya, Ururu りりん Ririn 使い魔
Tsukaima シュリーカー Shrieker 大虚
Menos Grande グランドフィッシャー Grand
Fisher 救護班員 Kyugohanin 護廷隊士
Goteitaishi シバタユウイチ Shibata,
Yuichi

- CAMEO APPEARANCES -
The following characters appear
in system voice menus.

花刈ジン太 Hanakari, Jinta 握菱テッサイ
Tsukabishi, Tessai 黒崎夏梨
Kurosaki, Karin 壷府リン Tsubokura,
Rin

┌---------┐
│ LEXICON │
└---------┘
The following is a translation
of some common terms used
throughout the game.

- FULL LIST -

魂魄 SOUL (health) 霊力 REIRYOKU
("spirit power," used for
Specials) 霊圧 REIATSU ("spirit
pressure," used for Supers) 霊符
REIFU (spirit card) 霊珠 REIJU
(spirit gem) しゃがみ CROUCH 立ち
STAND ジャンプ JUMP ダッシュ DASH 空中ダッシュ
AERIAL DASH 二段ジャンプ 2-STEP JUMP
[DOUBLE JUMP] 特殊移動 SPECIAL
MOVEMENT (flash steps) 瞬歩 FLASH
STEP / SHUNPO ライン移動 LINE CHANGE
(jump between
background/foreground) ガード GUARD
ガードキャンセル GUARD CANCEL ダメージキャンセル
DAMAGE CANCEL 通常攻撃 NORMAL ATTACK
小攻撃 LIGHT ATTACK 中攻撃 MEDIUM
ATTACK 大攻撃 HEAVY ATTACK 投げ THROW
必殺技 SPECIAL ATTACK (blue
hotkeys) RF必殺技 REINFORCED
SPECIAL ATTACK (strongest
variation) 超必殺技 SUPER ATTACK
(red hotkeys)

- SHORTHAND VARIATIONS -

立     STANDING
屈     CROUCHING
空     AERIAL
小     LIGHT ATTACK
中     MEDIUM ATTACK
大     HEAVY ATTACK
必Ｘ   SPECIAL ATTACK X
RF必Ｘ REINFORCED SPECIAL ATTACK X
超必Ｘ SUPER ATTACK X

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION III: HOW TO PLAY │
└-------------------------------

┌------------------┐
│ GAMEPLAY SCREENS │
└------------------┘

- TOP SCREEN -

SOUL (魂魄) GAUGE This is the blue
life bar at the top of the
screen.

REIATSU (霊圧) GAUGE This is the
green bar beneath your life
gauge, which fills up as you
attack your enemy and increases
your reiatsu stock count by 1
when filled.

REIATSU (霊圧) STOCK Three white
markers next to your reiatsu
gauge keep track of your current
Reiatsu stock. You can hold up
to 3 reiatsu stock in reserves,
which are required to perform
super moves and damage cancels.

REIFU (霊符) EFFECT Reifu are the
spirit cards used during battle
to power-up your character or
power-down your opponents. A
colored icon will appear beneath
your life gauge when your
character is currently under the
effect of a card. This color
indicates the type of effect,
which matches the color of the
card used. For more information
on reifu and their effects, see
the reifu section below.

REIRYOKU (霊力) GAUGE This is the
three-segmented bar at the
bottom of the screen, which
fills up automatically over
time. Reiryoku is required to
perform RF specials and use
flash steps. Using flash steps
depletes the inner gauge only,
while using RF specials depletes
both the inner and outer gauges.
The inner gauge restores itself
more quickly than the outer
gauge, but the inner gauge will
only restore itself as long as
the outer gauge is at an equal
or greater level. In other
words, the inner gauge can never
be larger than the outer gauge.
In Bleach DS 2nd, reiryoku
gauges for both you and your
opponents are always visible.

TIME LIMIT Located at the top of
the screen between the players'
life bars.

- TOUCH SCREEN -

REIFU (霊符) STOCK This is the
number at the top of the screen
that indicates how many reifu
you have left in reserves.

REIFU (霊符) BUTTONS These are the
spirit cards, which are
activated upon touch. Four of
these are available at any one
time. For more information on
reifu, check the Reifu/Reiju and
Deck Construction sections
below.

SPECIAL HOTKEYS Blue hotkeys are
shortcuts for specials. Red
hotkeys are shortcuts for
supers. Using the hotkeys for
command input instead of the
face buttons prohibits you from
choosing the variation
(light/medium/heavy) of that
technique during battle. They
will always perform the heavy/RF
version.

PLAYER EMBLEMS Each player's
custom emblem will appear at the
top-right corner of the touch
screen.

There does not appear to be a
way to alter the layout of the
touch screen in Bleach DS 2nd.

┌-------------------┐
│ CHARACTER CONTROL │
└-------------------┘

- MOVEMENT -

WALK & TURN: left/right JUMP: up
CROUCH: down DASH: left/right
twice; 2nd press can be held
down AERIAL DASH: left/right
twice in mid-air DOUBLE JUMP: up
while in mid-air FLASH STEP: B
button (can be changed in
options, uses 1/3 of reiryoku
gauge) LINE CHANGE: L button
(can be changed in options)

FOREGROUND AND BACKGROUND
FIGHTING PLANES Movement in
Bleach DS 2nd takes place on two
individual 2D fighting planes.
Attacks performed on one plane
will not interfere with the
action on the other plane. You
can switch planes at any time by
pressing the line change button.
In this game, it is possible to
hit opponents as they are
changing planes, and you can
change the game's settings so
that you and your opponent
cannot change planes during
battle.

FLASH STEPS / SHUNPO Flash steps
are used to quickly teleport in
any direction, and most
characters are invulnerable to
opponents when they perform this
technique. You can use flash
steps to teleport through or
away from enemy attacks, travel
a longer distance quickly, link
normal attacks that normally do
not chain together, or position
yourself in the air for a quick
overhead attack. Most characters
will briefly be vulnerable to
attack after completing a flash
step; you won't have time to
block an enemy's attack if you
flash step into it. Flash steps
also use up one segment of your
inner reiryoku gauge. Some
characters do not have proper
flash steps but instead have a
comparable quick step that
provides many of the same
functions. These characters may
be completely visible to
opponents when performing the
technique or not be able to use
it in mid-air. In Bleach DS 2nd,
you cannot use flash steps to
pass through your enemy's RF
special attacks. Attempting to
do so will still cause you to
get hit.

MOVEMENT BEHAVIOR AND RULES
Walking speed, dashing speed,
and flash step distance vary
between individual characters.
For most characters, up to one
double jump and two aerial
dashes can be performed in mid-
air before returning to the
ground. These aerial movement
techniques can be linked
together in any manner.

- DEFENSE -

GUARD: R button (can be changed
in options) GUARD CANCEL: flash
step / special while guarding
DAMAGE CANCEL: any attack button
+ flash step when enemy strikes
(uses reiatsu)

GUARDING Guarding nullifies
damage from enemy attacks and
also prevents you from being
staggered. Most attacks still
inflict a small amount of chip
damage to guarding opponents,
however. A standing guard blocks
standing and aerial attacks but
is vulnerable to crouching
attacks and throws. A crouching
guard blocks standing and
crouching attacks but is
vulnerable to aerial attacks and
throws. An aerial guard blocks
aerial, standing, and crouching
attacks but is vulnerable to
aerial throws. Guarding can
either be performed with the
guard button or by moving in the
opposite direction of an enemy
attack.

GUARD CANCELING In a normal
guarding state, you can not
perform any action besides
standing/crouching. When an
enemy attack hits your character
while you are guarding, however,
a small blue circle will quickly
appear, expand, and vanish.
While this circle is visible,
you can perform either a flash
step or a special/super attack
while you are guarding. This
technique is called a guard
cancel, and it is one of the
most vital techniques to learn
in order to play competitively.
In Bleach DS 2nd, you cannot
perform guard cancel techniques
with the touch screen.

DAMAGE CANCELING A damage cancel
can be performed to break free
from normal enemy attacks,
special moves, and stuns. To
perform this technique,
simultaneously press the flash
step button plus any normal
attack button while your
character is being attacked.
(Using a reifu while in a
damaged state also performs a
damage cancel.) The aura that
surrounds your character during
a damage cancel will inflict 1
hit point of damage to any enemy
character that it touches.
Damage canceling requires 1
reiatsu stock to perform and
cannot be used against super
moves or after a wallbounce.
Unlike Bleach DS 1, you cannot
DC at all after an enemy has
started to perform a super move,
even if it hasn't quite hit your
character yet.

- OFFENSE -

LIGHT ATTACK: Y button (can be
changed in options) MEDIUM
ATTACK: X button (can be changed
in options) HEAVY ATTACK: A
button (can be changed in
options) THROW: two attack
buttons simultaneously
SPECIALS/SUPERS: varies between
characters; check command list /
use hotkeys REINFORCE SPECIALS:
strongest variation of special
attacks, always executed
     with strong attack button, 
gauge and abbreviated with "RF"

STRIKING NORMAL ATTACKS There
are three different levels of
normal attacks (light, medium,
and heavy), which have their own
dedicated buttons and can be
chained together in various
ways. The behavior of normal
attacks changes depending on
whether your character is in a
standing, crouching, or aerial
state. Light attacks are weaker
and faster; heavy attacks are
stronger and slower.

THROWS Throws can be performed
when you are positioned next to
an opponent. They normally don't
cause much damage, but they will
often put your opponent into a
flying or stunned state, which
can be useful for setting up
additional attacks. If you walk
or flash step out of range of an
opponent at the very same moment
he attempts to throw you, the
throw will fail and the enemy
character will briefly enter a
tripping/kneeling animation. If
you strike an opponent at the
same moment he attempts to throw
you, or if both characters
attempt to throw each other at
the same time, they will both be
knocked back from each other.
Throws can be performed in mid-
air in Bleach DS 2nd.

SPECIAL ATTACKS, REINFORCED
SPECIAL ATTACKS, AND SUPER
ATTACKS Each character has a
variety of unique special moves
and super moves, which can
either be performed by specific
button combinations (listed in
the pause menu) or by using the
touch screen hotkeys. Blue
hotkeys are for specials, and
red hotkeys are for supers.

Like normal attacks, many
special moves vary in strength,
speed, and behavior depending on
which attack button you use.
Specials performed with the
light attack button are usually
quick but have a long recovery
time. Those performed with the
medium attack button are usually
slow but have a quick recovery
time. Those performed with the
heavy attack button often
combine the best of both worlds.
The strongest of these three
variations are usually
reinforced (RF) special moves.
Performing RF specials uses up
one segment of your outer
reiryoku gauge and will cause
your character to glow yellow
for a short period of time. In
Bleach DS 2nd, you can use RF
specials to intercept an
opponent in the middle of a
flash step. If your reiryoku
gauge is empty, attempting to
perform an RF special will
result in the use of a weaker
variation of that special
instead. Some special moves are
RF-only and cannot be performed
if you don't have enough
reiryoku.

You can use the touch screen to
perform special moves instead of
the buttons, but you will always
use the heavy/RF variation of
the special when doing so. If
you use a special attack with
the touch screen, you will have
to wait a few seconds before you
can perform it with the touch
screen again.

Super moves are typically the
strongest attacks available to
your character. In Bleach DS
2nd, super moves also vary in
behavior depending on what
button is used to perform them.
Every super in the game requires
either 1 or 3 reiatsu stock to
perform.

┌-----------------------┐
│ TIPS & BASIC STRATEGY │
└-----------------------┘

BREAKING GUARD AND MIXING
STANDING/CROUCHING/AERIAL
ATTACKS A standing guard blocks
standing and aerial attacks. A
crouching guard blocks standing
and crouching attacks. An aerial
guard blocks all normal attacks.
A standing throw can be used to
break a standing or crouching
guard, and an aerial throw can
be used to break an aerial
guard. Make sure to mix up your
attacks to keep a guarding
opponent guessing as to what he
should block. You can flash step
directly above your opponent and
attack in order to perform a
quick aerial hit.

CHIP DAMAGE Most attacks still
inflict a small amount of damage
on a guarding opponent. Unlike
Bleach DS 1, most normal attacks
inflict chip damage as well
instead of just specials and
projectiles. Make use of this to
KO opponents at low health.

CHAIN COMBOS If a normal attack
hits your opponent, you can
immediately follow it up with a
stronger attack to perform what
is called a chain combo. For
most characters, you cannot
follow a medium or heavy attack
with an attack of equal or
lesser strength. You can usually
follow a standing medium or
heavy with a crouching medium or
heavy, though. You can also use
certain techniques to link
attacks together that would not
work normally. The most common
way of doing so is using flash
steps to link normal attacks
together. For example, most
characters can perform a simple
light -> medium -> heavy attack
combo, but this combo cannot be
followed by another normal
attack in most cases. If you
perform a flash step immediately
after the heavy attack, however,
you can then immediately follow
it with any attack of your
choosing, allowing for much
longer combos.

LAUNCHERS AND AERIAL COMBOS Most
characters have at least one
attack that will send their
opponent airborne. Such
techniques are called launchers,
and they can usually be followed
by a jump and additional hits.
Since jumping and double jumping
require no power from either
special gauge, chain combos
performed in mid-air can often
provide more hits than standing
combos by themselves.

CHAIN COMBO DAMAGE SCALING As
the number of hits in a single
combo increases, the damage that
each successive hit inflicts
decreases. Most light attacks
inflict 4 damage, most mediums
6, and most heavies 8 by
themselves. A typical light ->
medium -> heavy chain combo,
however, inflicts only 15 damage
total. This can make certain
combos involving multiple super
moves less appealing; it would
usually be more cost-effective
reiatsu-versus-damage-wise to
perform 2 super moves separate
from each other than it would to
perform both of them in the same
combo. Of course, it can also be
beneficial to combine multiple
supers together if you are
guaranteed a hit after the first
super. This is a risk-versus-
reward scenario that you have to
evaluate yourself depending on
the situation.

LOW HEALTH DAMAGE SCALING
Attacks cause more damage
against opponents at full health
than they cause against
opponents at low health. Each
character has 255 hit points
total, and for most characters,
heavy attacks inflict 8 points
of damage. Without damage
scaling, it would take 32
individual heavy hits to KO an
opponent, but in actuality it
takes 46 hits to do so. Be
careful when budgeting your
supers against an opponent at
low health, as they may be able
to take more punishment than you
expect.

DAMAGE TABLES The following is a
complete list of all characters
who have different defense
levels than the rest of the
roster, rounded to the nearest
percentage point. Characters
with 50% defense would receive
exactly 2x damage from enemy
attacks.

Komamura    - 115%
ogihcI      -  73%
Yachiru     -  67%
Hanataro    -  67%
Ururu       -  67%
Orihime     -  62%
Shrieker    -  57%
Tatsuki     -  50%
Goteitaishi -  50%
Kon         -  47%
Ririn       -  47%
Tsukaima    -  47%
Kyugohanin  -  47%
Shibata     -  47%

JUGGLE STATES AND OFF-THE-GROUND
(OTG) HITS In most cases, an
opponent hit in mid-air will
quickly recover from stun and be
able to move or counter-attack
while still in the air. Some
moves will force the opponent to
fall to the ground after being
hit, and they cannot move or be
hit until they fully recover
from their fall. Being thrown
into a wall will cause them to
bounce off of the wall, leaving
them unable to move but open to
further attacks. When you strike
an opponent after a wallbounce,
it will normally keep him in an
aerial state and push him
slightly upwards, forcing you to
jump and flash step after him in
order to continue a combo.
However, if you strike him just
as he initially hits the ground,
it will put him into a standing
state, which allows you to
proceed with a standing combo
more easily. This technique is
known as an off-the-ground hit,
and the timing window for it is
very strict.

INSTANT AERIAL DASH (IAD) An IAD
is a jump immediately followed
by an aerial dash. To perform an
IAD, jump diagonally and then
quickly press forward on the
D-pad. This allows you to stay
close to the ground while
inputting aerial attacks, which
allows you to create longer
combos. A common IAD combo is
IAD -> aerial medium -> aerial
heavy. The heavy attack will
keep the opponent stunned long
enough for you to land and
continue a standing combo

GROUND-TO-AIR FLASH STEP (TAFS)
COMBOS When performing a chain
combo against a standing
opponent, you can usually
increase the amount of damage by
flash stepping above them,
inputting a few aerial attacks,
landing, inputting some standing
attacks, and then flash stepping
again. For example, when
attacking an opponent with
Ichigo, instead of inputting
[standing light -> standing
medium -> standing heavy ->
flash step forward -> repeat],
try [standing light -> standing
medium -> standing heavy ->
flash step diagonally above
opponent -> aerial medium ->
aerial heavy -> land -> repeat].
The basic idea of th add aerial
attacks to ground combos.

BALANCING YOUR REIATSU METER
Reiatsu is used for two
techniques: super attacks and
damage cancels. It is usually a
good idea to keep at least 1
reiatsu stock in reserve for
damage cancels should you need
them. For some characters,
1-stock supers can be more cost-
effective than 3-stock supers if
preceded or followed by certain
combos, so building your meter
up to 3-stock and keeping it
there can be a little wasteful
since any additional normal
attacks will not add any more
reiatsu to the meter until you
use some of it first.

BALANCING YOUR REIRYOKU METER
Reiryoku is used for two
techniques: flash steps and RF
special attacks. Flash steps use
up the inner gauge, which
refills rather quickly, while RF
specials use up the outer gauge,
which refills much more slowly.
Your inner gauge can never
extend further than the outer
gauge. For example, if you
perform 2 flash steps while both
parts of the gauge are maxed
out, you will deplete the inner
gauge by 2/3, while the outer
gauge will still be full. If you
perform 2 RF specials while both
parts are maxed out, however,
both the inner and outer gauges
will be reduced by 2/3. Using RF
specials in quick succession can
be rather wasteful, as it will
drastically limit your ability
to perform flash steps and
combos that require them.

┌-----------------------------┐
│ REIFU (霊符) & REIJU (霊珠) │
└-----------------------------┘
Reifu are the spirit cards used
during battle to power-up your
character and power-down your
opponents. Reiju are stat
modifiers. You can earn some of
them by clearing stages in Story
Mode for the first time. The
rest can be purchased in the
Urahara Shop. You can create up
to 5 custom decks in Deck
Construction mode and then
select which one of them to use
when you begin a battle. Check
the Deck Construction section
below to learn how to create
your own custom decks.

During a fight, two thirds of
your deck will be randomly
selected and available for use
throughout the match. Four cards
will be available for use at any
one time; just press them to
activate them. Each card has 4
different things displayed on
them:
  REIFU NAME: Japanese text on t
  DECK COST: Small number at bot
   number of total points for ea
  USE COST: Up to 4 blue boxes a
   cannot have more than 4 blue 
   If you use a 2-box card, you 
   or two 1-box cards until the 
   card, you can't use any other
TARGET: The symbol at the
bottom-right corner of each card
indicates who that card affects.
    blue triangle = yourself
    1 red triangle = 1 enemy
 2 red triangles = all enemies
   gold A = all players
   white N = no one (usually a s

After you use a reifu, you have
to wait a short period of time
before the effect becomes
active. If you're hit before the
reifu activates, it won't have
any effect.

- REIFU LIST -

The following list is separated
by category/color and arranged
as follows: Name - Character
Portrait - Name Translation

回復系 RECOVERY SYSTEM (BLUE) Cards
in this category restore health
and negate undesirable card
effects.

魂魄ＵＰ - Unohana - Soul Up 霊力ＵＰ -
Masaki - Reiryoku Up 霊圧ＵＰ -
Yachiru - Reiatsu Up 状態異常回復 -
Shibata - State Recovery 行動異常回復
- Kon - Conduct Recovery

強化系 REINFORCEMENT SYSTEM (GREEN)
Cards in this category
strengthen the user and grant
special abilities.

防御力ＵＰ - Orihime - Defense Up
攻撃力ＵＰ - Kukaku - Attack Up 機動力ＵＰ
- Yoruichi - Mobility Up 無敵 -
Tessai - Invincible 仰け反り無効 -
Kenpachi - Stagger Cancel
通常攻撃ふっとばし - Jindanbo - Normal
Attacks Double Force 通常攻撃チェーン -
Kaien - Normal Attacks Chain
通常攻撃多段ヒット - Karin - Normal
Attacks Multi-Hit 通常攻撃氷雪系 -
Hitsugaya - Normal Attacks Ice
Effect 通常攻撃毒 - Mayuri - Normal
Attacks Poison 通常攻撃炎熱系 -
Genryusai - Normal Attacks Fire
Effect 透明化 - Chojiro - Invisible
空中ダッシュ無制限 - Kiyone - Unlimited
Aerial Dash 二段ジャンプ無制限 - Isane -
Unlimited Double Jump 弾速ＵＰ - Cat
Yoruichi - Projectile Speed Up
弾速ＤＯＷＮ - Aizen - Projectile
Speed Down ガード強化 - Zangetsu -
Guard Reinforcement 霊力増加率ＵＰ -
Shinji - Reiryoku Recovery Rate
Up 霊圧増加率ＵＰ - Hiyori - Reiatsu
Recovery Rate Up 状態異常反射 - Hawk -
State Reflection 行動異常反射 -
Dumbbell - Conduct Reflection
オートガード - Omaeda - Auto Guard
特殊移動無制限 - Butterfly - Unlimited
Special Movement 通常攻撃浮かせ -
Kyoraku - Normal Attacks Lift
Effect 連続技補正オフ - Soifon - Combo
Damage Scaling Off 浮竹の薬 -
Kyugohanin - Ukitake's Medicine

攻撃系 ASSAULT SYSTEM (RED) Cards
in this category weaken the
target.

霊力ＤＯＷＮ - Hisagi - Reiryoku Down
霊圧ＤＯＷＮ - Jirobo - Reiatsu Down
機動力ＤＯＷＮ - Nemu - Mobility Down
攻撃力ＤＯＷＮ - Ichimaru - Attack Down
防御力ＤＯＷＮ - Nanao - Defense Down
霊力奪取 - Yumichika - Capture
Reiryoku 霊圧奪取 - Ikkaku - Capture
Reiatsu 霊符効果無効 - Iemura - Cancel
Reifu Effect 弾速ＵＰ - Tatsufusa -
Projectile Speed Up 弾速ＤＯＷＮ -
Kotsubaki - Projectile Speed
Down 霊力増加率ＤＯＷＮ - Ulquiorra -
Reiryoku Recovery Rate Down
霊圧増加率ＤＯＷＮ - Grimmjow - Reiatsu
Recovery Rate Down 魂魄ゲージ不可視 -
Goteitaishi - Hide Soul Gauge
霊力ゲージ不可視 - Goteitaishi 2 - Hide
Reiryoku Gauge 霊圧ゲージ不可視 -
Goteitaishi 3 - Hide Reiatsu
Gauge 全ゲージ不可視 - Tosen - Hide All
Gauges 霊符不可視 - Messenger - Hide
Reifu 霊符抹消 - ogihcI - Erase
Reifu

行動系 CONDUCT SYSTEM (PURPLE)
Cards in this category restrict
enemy behavior.

ダッシュ禁止 - Tsubaki - Prohibit Dash
ジャンプ禁止 - Lily - Prohibit Jump
通常攻撃禁止 - Ayame - Prohibit Normal
Attacks チェーンコンボ禁止 - Shun'o -
Prohibit Chain Combos 霊符禁止 -
Baigon - Prohibit Reifu 特殊移動禁止 -
Hinagiku - Prohibit Special
Movement 必殺技禁止 - Iba - Prohibit
Special Attacks 混乱 - Aramaki -
Confusion ライン移動禁止 - Yuzu -
Prohibit Line Change 強制しゃがみ -
Iduru - Force Crouch 強制立ち -
Chizuru - Force Stand 強制ダッシュ -
Tatsuki - Force Dash 強制歩き -
Michiru - Force Walk 強制ジャンプ -
Keigo - Force Jump 強制特殊移動 -
Mahana - Force Special Movement
カメラ固定 - Kanonji - Camera Lock
大混乱 - Top - Super Confusion
ガードボタン反転 - Fever - Reverse Guard
Button 移動起上り禁止 - Menos Grande -
Prohibit Knockdown Recovery 移動禁止
- Ukitake - Prohibit Movement
ＲＦ禁止 - Rukia - Prohibit
Reinforced Specials ガードキャンセル禁止 -
Chad - Prohibit Guard Cancel
挑発禁止 - Byakuya - Prohibit Taunts
投げ禁止 - Komamura - Prohibit
Throws 投げ抜け禁止 - Komamura 2 -
Prohibit Throw Escapes タッチパネル禁止
- Rangiku - Prohibit Touch Panel
小攻撃ボタン禁止 - Tsukaima - Prohibit
Light Attack Button 中攻撃ボタン禁止 -
Shrieker - Prohibit Medium
Attack Button 大攻撃ボタン禁止 - Grand
Fisher - Prohibit Heavy Attack
Button

その他 MISCELLANEOUS (ORANGE)

霊力交換 - Koganehiko - Exchange
Reiryoku 霊圧交換 - Shiroganehiko -
Exchange Reiatsu 霊力ＭＩＮ - Elder -
Reiryoku MIN 霊圧ＭＩＮ - Rikichi -
Reiatsu MIN 霊力ＭＡＸ - Jinta -
Reiryoku MAX 霊圧ＭＡＸ - Ururu -
Reiatsu MAX アイテム - Urahara -
Items 花火 - Ganju - Fireworks
霊力シャッフル - Hiyosu - Shuffle
Reiryoku 霊圧シャッフル - Akon -
Shuffle Reiatsu タイマー速度ＵＰ - Ririn
- Timer Speed Up タイマー速度ＤＯＷＮ -
Kuroud - Timer Speed Down
タイマー速度停止 - Nova - Timer Freeze

- REIJU LIST -

1x gray/blue octagon - Defense
+1% 2x gray/blue octagon -
Defense +3% 3x gray/blue octagon
- Defense +5% 1x gray/red square
- Attack +1% 2x gray/red square
- Attack +3% 3x gray/red square
- Attack +5% 1x purple/gray
octagon - Mobility +1% 2x
purple/gray octagon - Mobility
+3% 3x purple/gray octagon -
Mobility +5% 1x gray/yellow
square - Projectile Speed +3% 2x
gray/yellow square - Projectile
Speed +5% 1x green/gray octagon
- Projectile Speed -3% 2x
green/gray octagon - Projectile
Speed -5% 2x gray/blue square -
Reiryoku Recovery Rate +1% 4x
gray/blue square - Reiryoku
Recovery Rate +3% 6x gray/blue
square - Reiryoku Recovery Rate
+5% 4x gray/green octagon -
Reiatsu Recovery Rate +1% 6x
gray/green octagon - Reiatsu
Recovery Rate +3% 8x gray/green
octagon - Reiatsu Recovery Rate
+5% 1x gray/purple square -
Negate Confusion Status 1 time
2x gray/purple square - Negate
Confusion Status 2 times 3x
gray/purple square - Negate
Confusion Status 3 times 3x
gray/red octagon - Auto Guard 3
times 6x gray/red octagon - Auto
Guard 7 times 9x gray/red
octagon - Auto Guard 10 times 6x
gray/green square - Reflect
Assault Reifu 1 time 6x
blue/gray octagon - Reflect
Conduct Reifu 1 time 5x
gray/purple octagon - Negate
Assault Reifu Effect 1 time 7x
gray/purple octagon - Negate
Assault Reifu Effect 3 times 5x
gray/yellow octagon - Negate
Conduct Reifu Effect 1 time 7x
gray/yellow octagon - Negate
Conduct Reifu Effect 3 times

┌------------------------------┐
│ SIMPLE MODE (簡易操作モード) │
└------------------------------┘
When setting up the game, there
will be an option to change the
control method from Manual to
Auto. Auto activates Simple
Mode, which has the following
features:

AUTOMATIC CHAIN COMBO This
feature strings attacks together
whenever possible. For an
example of how this works, start
Training Mode with Ichigo in
Manual mode. Walk up next to
your opponent and quickly press
the light attack button 3 times
in succession. You will strike
him with 3 light attacks. Now
return to the Character Select
screen and change the control
method to Auto. Walk up to your
opponent and quickly press the
light attack button 3 times once
more. Ichigo will use the light
attack -> medium attack -> heavy
attack chain combo instead. Auto
chain combo will attempt to use
the most damaging variation of
your command when you are
guaranteed to hit the enemy. Be
aware, however, that this limits
the number of custom combos you
can discover and execute on your
own. Auto chain combo isn't
recommended for advanced players
or anybody who wants to be truly
competitive.

AUTOMATIC GUARD This feature
will cause your character to
automatically guard whenever
possible. Only your opponents'
counter attacks will
successfully connect. Attacks
blocked with auto guard will
cause orange blockstun circles
to appear instead of blue ones.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION IV: MENU TRANSLATION &
OPTIONS (オプション) │
└-------------------------------

┌--------------------┐
│ EXTENDED MAIN MENU │
└--------------------┘
Submenus and further options are
indented.

ストーリーモード STORY MODE アーケードモード
ARCADE MODE ＶＳモード VS MODE
トレーニングモード TRAINING MODE
タイムアタックモード TIME ATTACK MODE
(AVAILABLE AFTER CLEARING STORY)
サバイバルモード SURVIVAL MODE
(AVAILABLE AFTER CLEARING STORY)
デッキコンストラクション DECK CONSTRUCTION
浦原商店 URAHARA SHOP ギャラリー GALLERY
オプション OPTION
 ゲーム設定                    GAME S
  メッセージ速度                MESSAGE
   普通                          N
速い                          FAST
  超必殺技演出                  SUPER 
 あり                          ON
なし                          OFF
  ステージ輝度                  STAGE 
  壁紙                          WA
  システムボイス                SYSTEM 
ランダム                      RANDOM
なし                          OFF
キー設定 KEY CONIFGURATION
   設定                          C
    小攻撃                        L
    中攻撃                        M
    大攻撃                        H
    特殊移動                      SP
ガード                        GUARD
    ライン移動                    LIN
   標準に戻す                    REST
 サウンド設定                  SOUND S
  出力                          OU
ステレオ                      STEREO
   モノラル                      MON
  音量「全体」                  VOLUME
  音量「ＢＧＭ」                VOLUME 
  音量「効果音」                VOLUME 
  音量「音声」                  VOLUME
  標準に戻す                    RESTO
 セーブデータ                  SAVE DA
  初期化「ゲームデータ」        ERASE [GAME
  初期化「レコードデータ」      ERASE [RECOR
  初期化「Ｗｉ−Ｆｉデータ」    ERASE [Wi-Fi 
  初期化「全て」                ERASE [
 記録閲覧                      RANKI
 ユーザー設定                  USER SE
  名前変更                      CHAN
隊章エディット EMBLEM EDIT 戻る RETURN
(TO TITLE SCREEN)

┌---------------┐
│ RULE SETTINGS │
└---------------┘
Some of the following options
will be presented when starting
a game. Specific options to
select from change depending on
what mode you're playing.

多数決         MAJORITY RULE
ルール指定     DESIGNATE RULES
二人           2 PLAYERS
四人           4 PLAYERS
デスマッチ     DEATHMATCH
ポイントマッチ POINTMATCH
シングルバトル SINGLE BATTLE
タッグバトル   "TAG" BATTLE (TEAM)
イージー       EASY
ノーマル       NORMAL
ハード         HARD
１ライン       1 LINE
２ライン       2 LINES
１分           1 MINUTE
３分           3 MINUTES
５分           5 MINUTES
霊符有         REIFU PERMITTED
霊符無         REIFU PROHIBITED

MAJORITY RULE allows each player
to vote for game settings. Any
ties are decided by whoever
votes last. DESIGNATE RULES
allows the creator of the room
to determine all match settings
in advance. DEATHMATCH is a
standard fight-to- the-death
battle. In POINTMATCH, you get a
point for each bit of damage you
inflict on an enemy and lose
points every time you get hit
yourself. 1 LINE and 2 LINE
allows you to prohibit or permit
movement between the foreground
and background fighting planes.
The REIFU options determine
whether deck use is allowed or
not.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION V: STORY MODE
(ストーリーモード) │
└-------------------------------
If this is your first time
playing Story Mode, you'll be
presented with the opening scene
and then will start off with
Yoruichi's training mission.
After playing once, choosing
Story Mode from the main menu
will give you the following
options:

はじめから    NEW GAME
つづきから    CONTINUE
フリーモード  FREE MODE

Choosing Continue will resume
the game wherever you left it.
Choosing New Game will kick you
back to the very beginning of
Part A. You can skip stages that
you've already cleared, however.

After you clear Ending 1,
choosing New Game will allow you
to skip to the beginning of each
of the 4 areas in Story Mode (A,
B, C, and D). Free Mode will
also become available at this
point. In Free Mode, you can
skip directly to any stage
you've already cleared and play
them with any character of your
choosing. You can't access any
new areas in Free Mode or work
towards completion percentages
on difficulties you haven't
played yet, however.

When selecting which of the 4
parts of the game you want to
play (after you've already
gotten 1 ending), completion
ratings will appear at the top
of the screen. These indicate
how many stages you've cleared
for each area on each
difficulty. Some characters,
system voice sets, and money are
unlocked and rewarded to you
whenever each of these ratings
reaches 100%. The most hassle-
free way to unlock all
characters is to get 100%
completion for each part on Easy
mode. The only thing that
changes on Normal and Hard is
the amount of money rewarded,
and since you get a very large
bonus (800000) for completing
EVERY stage on EVERY difficulty
(in addition to smaller bonuses
for completing each individual
part on each individual
difficulty), you'll have to play
Easy mode anyway if you want to
earn a lot of money quickly. The
touch screen will display a
selection of parts A through D
(Ａパート, Ｂパート, etc). If FULL OPEN
is displayed to the right of any
of them, it means you have
access to every stage in that
area but have not completed
everything on all difficulties.
If COMPLETE is displayed, it
means that you are entirely
finished with that area.

The easiest way to check and see
which stages you haven't cleared
on a particular difficulty is to
view the map in Free Mode. Three
red boxes will be displayed
below each stage on the map, and
these correspond to Easy,
Normal, and Hard from left to
right. If a box is lit up, it
means that that stage has been
cleared on that difficulty.

When playing through the story
in regular mode (not Free Mode),
any stage that you've cleared
previously (either in the
current playthrough or in a
previous one) will be outlined
in blue on the map. Stages that
you haven't cleared yet will be
outlined in red. You can skip
any stage with a blue outline,
but I recommend that you play
them repeatedly until you clear
each of them on each difficulty.

You can skip messages and by
either pressing start or holding
the down button on all of the
cutscenes. Use the down button
to do so, or else you'll fail to
unlock all of the gallery
artwork. (After you've viewed a
scene once, however, there's no
harm in skipping it with the
start button the next time you
play it.) While on the map
screens, press Y to change
options, B to return to the main
menu, or X to zoom in and out.

When you begin a stage, you'll
have the following options
available to you:

難易度            DIFFICULTY
 イージー          EASY
 ノーマル          NORMAL
 ハード            HARD
ＳＬＯＴ選択 DECK SLOT SELECT 超必殺技演出
SUPER ATTACK ANIMATIONS
 あり              ON
 なし              OFF
操作方法          CONTROL METHOD
 マニュアル        MANUAL
 オート            AUTO
イベント EVENT (FREE MODE ONLY)
 あり              ON
 なし              OFF
キャラクター選択 CHARACTER SELECT (FREE
MODE ONLY)

You can create reifu/reiju decks
in Deck Construction mode and
specify which one to use in
Story Mode with the deck slot
select option. Various reifu,
reiju, and deck frames can be
earned through completing stages
in Story Mode for the first time
and by purchasing them in the
Urahara Shop. Super attack
animations are the long
cutscenes that play when certain
characters use their 3-stock
transformation super moves
during a fight. Specifying Auto
under Control Method activates
Simple Mode.

┌-------------┐
│ WALKTHROUGH │
└-------------┘
The following guide has been
written according to Hard mode.
Some of the requirements are
more forgiving on easier
difficulties (such as a greater
time limit, fewer opponents to
defeat, or less-powerful
opponents). It's also written
without taking deck strategy
into play. I haven't messed
around with the reifu system in
this game yet, but I have
cleared everything on Story
Mode, so I can assure you that
everything here is very doable
without decks.

That said, I imagine that a few
stages would be much easier with
certain cards. In a few stages,
you either have to switch planes
more than your opponent or catch
them and hit them a few times,
and they'll be running away and
switching planes at a very fast
rate. A Prohibit Line Change
reifu (purple, ライン移動 禁止) would
likely help immensely for these
missions. I believe there is
also a reifu that stops the
timer, and this would probably
come in handy for any stage with
a time limit. I'm not sure which
one this is; it might be the
very last one listed in the last
category of cards in the shop,
but I haven't tested it to
verify.

Each part of this guide will
consist of a map, a quick list
of all the stages displayed on
that map, and some in-depth
information for a few stages.
The map is formatted with Shift-
JIS characters; sometimes
Internet Explorer fails to
display the spacing correctly,
so you might have to use a
different browser to properly
view them. Each stage in the
list will be displayed as
follows:

#) type - portrait - objective -
unlock

Type indicates what symbol
appears at the bottom left
corner. Two swords crossed
indicates a battle, a flame
indicates a mission with special
win conditions, and a hollow
mask usually indicates a battle
with hollows. The portrait
indicates what character(s) are
identified for that stage on the
map. The objective is what must
be done to complete the stage.
Each stage will reward you with
some money when you clear it,
and clearing each stage for the
first time usually gives you
access to a reifu, reiju, or
deck frame. Clearing some stages
for the first time will unlock
certain characters, and these
will be listed below.

- PART A -

01      12−11−13−18−19
│          │      │  │
02−03−04−06−08−16−21−22
  │  │  │  │  │
  05−07−09−14−20
   │  │  │
   10−15−17

Play stages 5 and 12 as soon as
they become available, as it's
possible to lose access to them
later. Play stage 21 only after
clearing everything else on the
map, as it prevents you from
going back to previous areas
after you clear it.

01) Mission - Yoruichi -
    complete the instruction
    sequence
02) Battle - Ikkaku - defeat him
    (specials/supers prohibited)
03) Event
04) Event
05) Mission - Ukitake - catch
    more items than him
06) Battle - Kenpachi - defeat
    him
07) Battle - Soifon - defeat her
    - unlocks Soifon
08) Battle - Nemu - defeat
    Kisuke
09) Mission - Yachiru - switch
    planes more than her -
    unlocks Yachiru
10) Battle - Goteitaishi -
    protect Hanataro from 15
    Goteitaishi
11) Battle - Renji - defeat him
12) Battle - Kon - defeat him -
    unlocks Kon
13) Event
14) Battle - Hisagi - defeat him
    - unlocks Hisagi
15) Battle - Kenpachi - defeat
    him
16) Battle - Iduru - defeat him,
    then Rangiku - unlocks Iduru
    & Rangiku
17) Battle - Ikkaku - defeat him
18) Battle - Kyoraku - defeat
    him
19) Battle - Goteitaishi -
    defeat 20 Goteitaishi
20) Mission - Hitsugaya - catch
    12 blue sheets without
    touching red ones
21) Event (PLAY THIS LAST!)
22) Battle - Ganju - defeat him
    in a point match - unlocks
    Rukia

STAGE 1 - [MISSION] TRAINING
WITH YORUICHI When you begin
Story Mode, Yoruichi will run
you through the game basics.
Just skip through the messages
and follow the instructions that
appear on the bottom of the
screen. Here is a translation of
the ones that appear in
Japanese:

ジャンプ中に while jumping 立ち中に while
standing しゃがみ中に while crouching
攻撃ボタンを二つ以上同時押し press 2 attack
buttons together when next to
enemy 霊符をタッチ touch reifu

STAGE 5 - [MISSION] CATCH MORE
ITEMS THAN UKITAKE Ukitake moves
at much greater speeds than
normal. Attacks are permitted,
and they cause much more damage
than normal, so the easiest way
to win is to just knock him out
and then grab as many items as
you can before he recovers.

STAGE 9 - [MISSION] SWITCH
PLANES MORE THAN YACHIRU Yachiru
moves much faster than normal,
casts a speed-up reifu on
herself, and runs away from you
when you try to attack her. Try
slowing her down and knocking
her out with Ichigo's special E
(down, up, light attack). Let
her run to the corner, stand a
short distance away, use the
special move, jump to the other
plane, use it again, and keep
repeating. The rocks will slow
her down and periodically knock
her out, which will allow you to
switch planes quickly a few
times without worrying about
her. When she is about to
recover, start using the special
attack to slow her down again. I
recommend using the Prohibit
Line Change reifu on her if
you're still having trouble.

STAGE 10 - [BATTLE] PROTECT
HANATARO FROM 15 GOTEITAISHI
Hanataro will walk around
aimlessly for the most part and
does not attack, and your
attacks cannot hurt him. The
Goteitaishi have relatively low
life bars, and you must defeat
all of them before Hanataro runs
out of health. Make use of
attacks that cover a wide range
or hit in all directions when
many of them are close together,
such as Ichigo's super B and
special B. Sometimes Hanataro
will stand in a corner for an
extended period of time, and
it's usually easiest to guard
him when he's like this. Just
stand right in front of him and
rapidly hit the light attack
button to keep the opponents
away.

- PART B -

    36−40−┐  ┌47┐  55−56−57−63
    │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │
24−35−37−44−45−49−52  58−59−60
│  │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │
23−25−42−43−48−50  41  61−62−64
│  │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │  │
53−26−28−29−30−31−32  └−65−┘
│  │  │  │  │  │  │
54  27−┘  └−46−51−33
    │  │  │
    39−38−34

Sorry about the sporadic stage
numbering here. You don't have
to worry about the order in this
area until you reach stage 55.
Make sure you play everything
else on the map before starting
that one.

23) Event
24) Mission - Yachiru & Rangiku
    - catch 25 items as Yachiru
25) Battle - Nemu - defeat 3
    Mayuri at the same time
26) Battle - Kukaku - defeat 3
    Bonnie - unlocks Bonnie
27) Mission - Hanataro &
    Goteitaishi - fully heal 3
    Goteitaishi as Hanataro
28) Hollow - Chad & Hollow -
    defeat 20 Tsukaima as Chad
29) Battle - Yachiru & Nanao -
    defeat Soifon, Nemu, &
    Rangiku - unlocks Nemu
30) Mission - Byakuya - catch 55
    bananas
31) Hollow - Renji - defeat 35
    Goteitaishi
32) Mission - Iemura - dodge
    acid rain for 40 seconds
33) Battle - Goteitaishi -
    defeat 25 Goteitaishi
34) Battle - Soifon & Yoruichi -
    defeat max-reiatsu Yoruichi
    as Soifon
35) Mission - Ikkaku - catch 30
    items
36) Battle - Genryusai - defeat
    Goteitaishi without being
    hit
37) Mission - Ikkaku - break
    more targets than him
38) Mission - Rangiku & Ichimaru
    - hit Ichimaru within 30
    seconds as Rangiku
39) Hollow - Hisagi & Tosen -
    defeat Shrieker & Tsukaima
    as Hisagi
40) Mission - Butterfly - catch
    50 butterflies in 15 seconds
41) Mission - Renji & Butterfly
    - catch 80 butterflies in 30
    seconds
42) Mission - Mayuri - be the
    first to answer 5 questions
    correctly
43) Mission - Komamura - catch
    50 bones in 25 seconds
44) Battle - Hitsugaya & Aizen -
    defeat max-reiatsu Aizen
45) Battle - Hollow - defeat 20
    Tsukaima
46) Mission - Mayuri - be the
    first to answer 5 questions
    correctly
47) Mission - Butterfly -
    destroy 20 butterflies
48) Event
49) Event - Orihime
50) Battle - Chad & Goteitaishi
    - defeat him
51) Event - Uryu
52) Event
53) Mission - Ukitake - catch
    more items than him
54) Mission - Orihime - catch
    more items (bigger is
    better)
55) Hollow - Hollow - defeat 15
    Tsukaima, then giant
    Shrieker (PLAY THIS LAST!)
56) Event
57) Hollow - Kyugohanin -
    protect Kyugohanin from 30
    Tsukaima
58) Hollow - Kyoraku & Ichigo -
    defeat 20 Tsukaima as
    Kyoraku
59) Hollow - Soifon & Ichigo -
    defeat 15 Tsukaima &
    Shrieker as Soifon
60) Hollow - Ikkaku & Ichigo -
    defeat 20 Tsukaima &
    Shrieker as Ikkaku
61) Hollow - Chad & Hollow -
    protect Shibata from 35
    Tsukaima as Chad
62) Hollow - Ukitake & Ichigo -
    defeat 20 Tsukaima &
    Shrieker as Ukitake
63) Event
64) Event
65) Hollow - Kenpachi & Rin -
    defeat Grand Fisher as
    Kenpachi

STAGE 24 - [MISSION] CATCH 25
ITEMS AS YACHIRU Yachiru trips
when walking or running, so if
you need to cover a lot of
ground quickly, use flash steps.

STAGE 25 - [BATTLE] DEFEAT 3
MAYURI AT THE SAME TIME You must
fight 3 Mayuri at the same time.
They fight without Nemu
accompanying them, and you have
a significantly stronger life
bar. However, each of the CPU
opponents will recover to full
health shortly after being
defeated. In order to win, you
must knock all three opponents
out at the same time. The best
way to do so is to finish them
off with Ichigo's super B.
Yellow Mayuri is 2P, red Mayuri
is 3P, and blue Mayuri is 4P.

STAGE 27 - [MISSION] FULLY HEAL
3 GOTEITAISHI AS HANATARO Three
Goteitaishi start at near death
and must be brought to full
health within the time limit.
They do not attack you, but they
tend to flash step and plane hop
away from you. Use Hanataro's
standing heavy attack to
gradually heal them. Use flash
steps to combo heavy -> flash
step -> heavy -> etc. When
Hanataro's meter at the bottom
of the screen is full, he'll
fire a large burst of energy
from his sword, so make sure
that it doesn't hit any of the
Goteitaishi.

STAGE 29 - [BATTLE] DEFEAT
SOIFON, NEMU, & RANGIKU AS
YACHIRU Your 3 opponents are not
on a team, so you can sit back
and block for a while as they
beat each other up.

STAGE 32 - [MISSION] DODGE ACID
RAIN FOR 40 SECONDS This stuff
breaks through guard, so you'll
have to move around and be
careful not to get hit. Try not
to box yourself into a corner,
and flash step away if it
doesn't look like you can dodge
by walking. Use damage cancels
to break out of stun.

STAGE 37 - [MISSION] BREAK MORE
TARGETS THAN IKKAKU Not too
hard. Knock him out and use
super B to clear multiple
targets at once.

STAGE 38 - [MISSION] HIT
ICHIMARU WITHIN 30 SECONDS AS
RANGIKU All you have to do is
hit Ichimaru before time
expires, but he has super speed
and will try to evade you. Try
using Rangiku's ash clouds to
hit him. Press down, down, guard
to deploy one, and down,
forward, heavy to throw it. If
you still can't hit him, try
setting up a trap. Deploy one
ash cloud, then press down,
down, light to freeze it in
place. Deploy two more ash
clouds next to the existing one,
and use down, forward, heavy to
throw all 3 of them at once.
Throw the ash clouds and then
immediately cross planes if you
need to make Ichimaru switch
planes. Failing that, use a
Prohibit Line Change reifu to
keep him from getting away.

STAGE 42 - [MISSION] BE THE
FIRST TO ANSWER 5 QUESTIONS
CORRECTLY The floor is split
into two halves marked with an O
and X on each half. Mayuri will
quiz you on a number of things
related to Bleach and you must
answer either true (O) or false
(X) for each question by
standing on the appropriate half
of the stage when time runs out.
You must answer 5 questions
correctly before Ikkaku, who
will be trying to fight you at
the same time. I don't have the
answers for each question as of
this time, so the best advice I
can give is to just stay on the
same side as Ikkaku for each
question once you have 1 more
point than him. You can also try
knocking him off of the side
that he tries to stay on in
order to prevent him from
getting a point, but he doesn't
always answer the questions
correctly to begin with.

- PART C -

    70−71−┐  83−88−89
    │  │  │  │  │  │
68−69−72  74−75−84−┘  91
│  │  │  │  │  │      │
67−66−73−81−82  └−85−90−92−93
│  │  │  │  │      │      │
└−76−77−80−94−87−86      96−97
    │  │  │  │  │  │      │
    78−79−┘  └−95−┘      98

You cannot play stages 77 and 78
during the same playthrough. You
must play story mode again in
order to clear both of them.
Similarly, you cannot play
stages 87, 94, and 95 on the
same playthrough either. If you
play stage 94, you can't play
#87. If you play #87, you can't
play either #94 or #95. You
cannot access stage 96 until
you've cleared ending 1 (stage
93). You cannot access stage 98
until you've cleared ending 2
(stage 97). Stage 98 will take
you to part D. Since you have to
play part C at least 3 times,
use the opportunity to clear the
other stages on as many
different difficulties as
possible if you're shooting for
100% completion.

66) Mission - Yoruichi -
    complete the instruction
    sequence
67) Battle - Komamura & Kenpachi
    - defeat max-reiatsu
    Kenpachi as Komamura
68) Battle - Ikkaku & Kenpachi -
    defeat max-reiatsu Kenpachi
    as Ikkaku
69) Battle - Kenpachi & Kenpachi
    - defeat max-reiatsu
    Kenpachi as Kenpachi
70) Hollow - Rukia & Byakuya -
    defeat 30 Tsukaima w/
    Byakuya - unlocks Byakuya
71) Hollow - Rukia & Orihime -
    defeat 30 Tsukaima as Rukia
    with Orihime
72) Hollow - Ganju & Rukia -
    defeat 35 Tsukaima as Ganju
    with Rukia
73) Hollow - Ukitake - defeat 45
    Tsukaima as Ichigo with
    Ukitake
74) Hollow - Orihime & Hanataro
    - defeat Shrieker & Tsukaima
    with Hanataro
75) Mission - Orihime & Iemura -
    fully heal 3 Goteitaishi as
    Orihime (super C)
76) Event - Hitsugaya
77) Hollow - Rangiku & Iduru -
    defeat 30 Tsukaima as
    Rangiku
78) Battle - Hitsugaya &
    Hinamori - defeat max-
    reiatsu Hinamori as
    Hitsugaya
79) Hollow - Chad & Rin -
    destroy 40 butterflies in 30
    seconds as Chad
80) Hollow - Hitsugaya & Hollow
    - defeat 2 Grand Fisher as
    Hitsugaya
81) Mission - Yoruichi - hit
    Yoruichi 3 times (RF special
    B recommended)
82) Hollow - Hollow - defeat 35
    Tsukaima
83) Battle - Renji & Kenpachi -
    defeat max-reiatsu Kenpachi
    as Renji
84) Hollow - Komamura & Hollow -
    defeat 35 Tsukaima & Grand
    Fisher as Komamura
85) Hollow - Hollow - defeat
    Grand Fisher, Shrieker, &
    Tsukaima
86) Event
87) Battle - Kyoraku & Ukitake -
    defeat Ukitake as Kyoraku,
    then defeat clones
88) Event
89) Event
90) Event (PLAY THIS LAST!)
91) Hollow - Nemu & Uryu -
    defeat 30 Tsukaima &
    Shrieker as Nemu
92) Hollow - Hollow - defeat
    max-reiatsu Menos Grande
93) Event - ENDING 1
94) Hollow - Chad & Hollow -
    defeat 30 Tsukaima as Chad,
    then defeat 2 Shrieker
95) Battle - Ukitake & Kyoraku -
    defeat Kyoraku as Ukitake,
    then defeat clones
96) Hollow - Hollow - defeat 3
    Menos Grande
97) Event - ENDING 2
98) Event - TO PART D

STAGE 66 - [MISSION] TRAINING
WITH YORUICHI PART 2 Yoruichi
will give you more commands to
practice. These include combos
that involve flash steps,
linking specials and supers
together, and guard/damage
canceling. Translations of
commands can be found in the
shorthand list in the Reference
section above.

ガード中に   while guarding
ダメージ中に while taking damage

- PART D -

┌-100-101-102−┐
│              │
99-104-105-106-103
│              │
└-107-108-109−┘

There are 3 paths in this area,
all of which lead to the final
ending. You can only play
through 1 path each time you
play this area.

99) Event
100) Battle - Chad - defeat max-
     reiatsu Chad & 25 Tsukaima
101) Battle - Ukitake - defeat
     max-reiatsu Ukitake & max-
     reiatsu Tsukaima
102) Battle - Mayuri - defeat
     max-reiatsu Mayuri,
     Shrieker, & Menos Grande
103) Event - ENDING 3
104) Battle - Orihime - defeat
     max-reiatsu Orihime & 25
     Tsukaima
105) Battle - Renji - defeat
     max-reiatsu Renji & max-
     reiatsu Shrieker
106) Battle - Hitsugaya - defeat
     max-r Hitsugaya, Grand
     Fisher, & Menos Grande
107) Battle - Uryu - defeat max-
     reiatsu Uryu & 25 Tsukaima
108) Battle - Komamura - defeat
     max-reiatsu Komamura & max-
     reiatsu Grand Fisher
109) Battle - Byakuya - defeat
     max-reiatsu Byakuya & 2
     max-reiatsu Menos Grande

┌---------------------┐
│ UNLOCKS AND REWARDS │
└---------------------┘
The following is a list of
notable one-time rewards in
Story Mode. As stated earlier,
the easiest way to unlock every
character is to shoot for 100%
completion in Easy mode. Play
every stage in parts A and B on
Easy during your first
playthrough, and then play as
many as you can in part C before
accessing ending 1. Skip
straight to part C on your next
playthrough and play the stages
you missed before accessing
ending 2. You'll have to play 3
times in order to access part D.

After you unlock a character,
you can purchase their system
voice set from the shop. Some
nonplayable characters also have
system voice sets.

Some of the Part A-C unlocks
will not come into effect until
you clear story mode for the
first time.

Part A 1st Clear - 20000 Part A
Event 100% - Tosen Part A Easy
100% - 10000 Part A Normal 100%
- 20000 Part A Hard 100% - 30000
Part A 100% - Ururu Part A 100%
- Jinta Hanakari system voice
Part A 100% - Tessai Tsukabishi
system voice Part A All Modes
100% - 100000

Part B 1st Clear - 50000 Part B
Event 100% - Ichimaru Part B
Easy 100% - 10000 Part B Normal
100% - 20000 Part B Hard 100% -
30000 Part B 100% - Kukaku Part
B All Modes 100% - 100000

Part C 1st Clear - 80000 Part C
1st Clear - Rin Tsubokura system
voice Part C 1st Clear - Time
Attack Mode Part C 1st Clear -
Survival Mode Part C 1st Clear -
Story Mode: Free Mode Part C
Event 100% - Aizen Part C Easy
100% - 10000 Part C Normal 100%
- 20000 Part C Hard 100% - 30000
Part C 100% - Hollow Ichigo Part
C All Modes 100% - 100000

Story Mode 1st Clear - 200000
Story Mode 1st Clear - Don
Kanonji Story Mode 1st Clear -
Karin Kurosaki system voice

Part D Event 100% - Tatsuki Part
D Event 100% - Ririn Part D Easy
100% - 10000 Part D Normal 100%
- 20000 Part D Hard 100% - 30000
Part D All Modes 100% - 100000

All Part 100% - Tsukaima,
Shrieker, Menos Grande, Grand
Fisher, Kyugohanin, Goteitaishi,
Shibata All Part All Difficulty
100% - 800000

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION VI: VS MODE (ＶＳモード) │
└-------------------------------
Main VS Mode menu:

ＣＰＵ対戦              CPU BATTLE
ワイヤレス対戦          WIRELESS BATTLE
ダウンロード対戦        DOWNLOAD BATTLE
Ｗｉ−Ｆｉコネクション  Wi-Fi CONNECTION

CPU BATTLE will pit you against
up to 3 CPU players. WIRELESS
BATTLE allows you to play with
up to 3 others who own their own
copies of Bleach DS 2nd. You can
either create a room or join an
existing one on the list.
DOWNLOAD BATTLE allows you to
set up a room and let up to 3
other players who don't own the
game join your room via DS
Download Play. Wi-Fi CONNECTION
allows you to fight online and
adjust your DS and friend code
settings.

┌------------------┐
│ Wi-Fi CONNECTION │
└------------------┘
Initial Wi-Fi menu:

ログイン            LOGIN
 はい                YES (CONFIRM)
 いいえ              NO (CANCEL)
友達・ライバル管理  FRIEND CODE SETTINGS
接続先の設定        Wi-Fi SETTINGS

LOGIN will attempt to connect
you to the Bleach DS 2nd
servers. You must login to the
server first in order to
retrieve your friend code.
FRIEND CODE SETTINGS allows you
to check your friend code and
make adjustments to your FC
list. Wi-Fi SETTINGS allows you
to change the connection profile
for your DS, and the menus
therein are identical to other
DS Wi-Fi Connection games, only
in Japanese. If you've played
online with your DS before, you
shouldn't have to worry about
changing anything in the
settings. If you haven't played
online yet and need a
translation for these menus,
check www.nintendowifi.com for
downloadable manuals in your
native language.

- AFTER LOGGING INTO NINTENDO WI

After selecting LOGIN from the
previous menu, you should be
connected to the server. If any
special events are currently
taking place, there will be a
message accompanied by a chime
and EVENT BATTLE will be
available from the next menu.

自由対戦                FREE BATTLE
 二人                    2 PLAYERS
 四人                    4 PLAYERS
フレンド・ライバル対戦  FRIEND/RIVAL BATTLE
霊位争奪戦              RANKING MATCH
 霊符有                  REIFU PERM
 霊符無                  REIFU PROH
イベント対戦 EVENT BATTLE 霊位争奪戦ランキング
RANKING LEADERBOARDS
 はい                    YES (CONF
 いいえ                  NO (CANCEL
伝言入力 MESSAGE INPUT 伝言確認 MESSAGE
CONFIRMATION

FREE BATTLE will randomly search
the server for an opponent and
pair you with one. FRIEND/RIVAL
battle allows you to play
against others on your
Friend/Rival list. Either join a
room listed or create one with
the top option. RANKING MATCH
will pit you against somebody
else and award or detract points
from your ranking score based on
your performance. Two scores are
kept: one for ranking matches
with reifu/reiju permitted and
one without. EVENT BATTLE allows
you to play special event
matches that will be held from
time to time. The specifications
regarding these will change
periodically. RANKING
LEADERBOARDS has the following 4
lists: top 10 players (reifu
permitted), the closest-ranked
10 players to you (reifu
permitted), top 10 players
(reifu prohibited), the closest-
ranked 10 players to you (reifu
prohibited). I'm not exactly
sure what purposes the MESSAGE
INPUT and MESSAGE CONFIRMATION
options serve.

After a battle ends, a win/loss
tally will be displayed in
addition to a few options. At
the bottom of the screen, select
the left option to play a
rematch or the right option to
quit. If you just played a
random opponent, a button will
be placed next to their name and
result tally that will add that
player to your Rival list.

- FRIEND CODE SETTINGS -

友達・ライバル管理 FRIEND CODE SETTINGS
友達コード入力 INPUT FRIEND CODE
友達コード確認 MY FRIEND CODE 友達コード交換
EXCHANGE FRIEND CODES
 友達コード交換受付     SEND FRIEND CODES
 友達コード交換？？？   RECEIVE FRIEND COD

Selecting the top option allows
you to view your Friend/Rival
list. Pressing X will delete a
player from the list. INPUT
FRIEND CODE lets you add another
player to your list. MY FRIEND
CODE displays your friend code.
(You must login once in order to
retrieve it.) EXCHANGE FRIEND
CODES allows you to send/receive
codes with another local DS.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION VII: OTHER GAME MODES
│
└-------------------------------

ARCADE MODE and TIME ATTACK MODE
will pit you against 6 random
CPU opponents in succession.
Arcade Mode scores are
determined mostly by long
combos. The objective of Time
Attack is to defeat all of the
opponents as quickly as
possible. Both modes can be
played either solo or with a CPU
partner. You earn 2000 points
for the shop per match and a
bonus 20000 points for clearing
either mode for the first time
with each character. You can get
the bonus for each character
twice; once in solo battle and
once in team battle. Time Attack
Mode is only available after
clearing Story Mode.

TRAINING MODE allows you to
practice against a CPU dummy
with full power gauges. Use it
to check and practice commands
for each character. You can set
the CPU dummy to perform certain
actions or fight you normally
via the pause menu.

SURVIVAL MODE pits you against
every character in the game at
random in an endless sequence of
fights. You regain only a little
bit of life between matches.
This mode has the greatest
potential for earning money for
the shop once you've cleared
Story Mode; longer winning
streaks can net you
exponentially greater sums. You
must clear Story Mode in order
to unlock Survival Mode.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION VIII: DECK
CONSTRUCTION (デッキコンストラクション) │
└-------------------------------
This mode is where you arrange
your 5 custom reifu decks for
use during battle. Select a slot
on the main screen to check its
current arrangement.

カスタマイズ  CUSTOMIZE
コピー        COPY
入れ替え      SWAP
名称変更      RENAME
キャンセル    CANCEL

Select CUTSOMIZE to change the
deck's arrangement. Select COPY
to duplicate one of your
existing decks. Select SWAP to
change the order of the deck
list. Select RENAME to change
the deck's title. Select CANCEL
to go back.

After selecting Customize from
the menu, two rows of cards will
appear on the touch screen. The
top row are the cards currently
present in this deck. The bottom
row are all of the cards you
have in reserves. You can buy
more at the Urahara Shop. The
menu at the bottom from left to
right is: Reserve Selection,
Reifu, Reiju, and Frame.
Changing the Reserve Selection
narrows the reserves list down
to one category of cards at a
time for faster navigation.
Selecting Frame allows you to
choose the base frame for this
deck. Different frames allow you
to utilize different amounts of
each category of reifu as well
as different amounts of reiju.
You can unlock additional frames
in Story Mode and then proceed
to purchase them from the shop.

To add a reifu to your deck,
simply find it in the reserves
list and press A to move it to
the slot list. To remove a reifu
from your deck, find it in the
slot list and press A to move it
back to the reserves. The top
screen shows the current
configuration of your deck. In
order to be able to save your
changes, you must make sure that
none of the status counters at
the top of the screen are
blinking red. There are three
counters at the top-right corner
of the screen: card count, power
count, and reiju count. When you
add a card to your deck, the
card count increases by one and
the power count increases by the
number at the bottom-left corner
of the card (deck cost). More
powerful cards generally have
higher deck costs.

Select the reiju option on the
touch screen to view the current
reiju configuration for your
deck. The default deck frame has
3 reiju holders, which doesn't
accommodate for much. Different
frames allow you to configure
reiju in a 2x2, 3x3, or 4x4
grid. Select a reiju from your
reserves at the bottom and then
fit them into the frame with the
A button. Press X if you need to
rotate the gems in order to make
them fit.

When you are done customizing
your deck, press the B button to
go back to the main menu. If
you're presented with a YES/NO
prompt, it means that you have
not created a valid deck and
pressing YES to exit will cause
changes to be lost.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION IX: URAHARA SHOP
(浦原商店) & GALLERY (ギャラリー) │
└-------------------------------

┌--------------┐
│ URAHARA SHOP │
└--------------┘
The shop contains a number of
things for you to purchase
through points earned during the
regular game. The fastest ways
to earn money are to fully
complete Story Mode on all
difficulties, enter specific
touch screen passwords, and
getting high scores in Survival
Mode.

買い物                 BUY
 アイテム               ITEM
  霊符                   REIFU (SP
  フレーム               FRAME (DECK
  霊珠                   REIJU (SP
 カラー                 COLOR (ALTE
 グラフィック           GRAPHIC (GALLE
 サウンド               SOUND
  効果音                 SOUND EFFE
  ＢＧＭ                 BACKGROUND
 音声                   VOICE (SYS
パスワード             PASSWORD
 タッチスクリーン入力   TOUCH SCREEN INPUT
 ？？                   ENTERED PA

Everything in the ITEM menu is
related to the reifu/reiju deck
system used in battle. You may
have to unlock some of them in
Story Mode before you can buy
them from the shop. The COLOR
menu has 4 alternate outfits for
each character. The GRAPHIC and
SOUND menus contain pictures and
audio that can be accessed in
the Gallery. The VOICE menu
contains all of the voice
samples for each character; you
can listen to them in the
Gallery or change your System
Voice setting so that different
characters read the menus.

Three specific touch screen
passwords can be entered to earn
more money (300000 each). They
are pictures of Kon's paw print,
a jar, and Chappy. Cutouts of
each of these pictures can
supposedly be found in Jump, and
they are supposed to be placed
over the touch screen for you to
trace them. It's actually not
too hard to trick the game into
accepting random scribbles
instead, though. Just draw a
bunch of circles and random
lines and you might be able to
get all of them.

┌---------┐
│ GALLERY │
└---------┘
Most of the items in the gallery
must first be purchased from
Urahara's Shop.

ビジュアルギャラリー     VISUAL GALLERY
 イベントグラフィック１   EVENT GRAPHIC 1
 イベントグラフィック２   EVENT GRAPHIC 2
 キャラグラフィック       CHARACTER GRAPH
 おまけグラフィック１     BONUS GRAPHIC 1
 おまけグラフィック２     BONUS GRAPHIC 2
 おまけグラフィック３     BONUS GRAPHIC 3
サウンドギャラリー       SOUND GALLERY
 「ＢＧＭ」               [BACKGROUND
 「効果音」               [SOUND EFFE
 「音声」                 [VOICE]
死神図鑑 SHINIGAMI MANUAL
 人物図鑑                 CHARACTER 
 用語集                   GLOSSARY
 技図鑑                   TECHNIQUE

Event and character graphics are
made available simply after
viewing them once in Story Mode.
If you skip cutscenes, however,
you may fail to unlock all of
them. The Shinigami Manual
contains information about the
characters and the world of
Bleach.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION X: GET YOUR GAME ON -
BLEACH DS IRC CHANNEL │
└-------------------------------
If you're looking for people to
play with on Wi-Fi, there's a
quasi-official IRC channel set
up for just that. Discussion can
veer wildly off-topic at times,
but it's more convenient to
arrange matches here than it is
on message boards, and it's
usually the best place on the
net to find somebody to fight.
The server is irc.rizon.net and
the channel is #Bleach_ds. If
you are unfamiliar with IRC, use
one of the following guides to
join the chat. Once you're in
the channel just ask if anybody
wants to play.

┌------------┐
│ USING MIRC │
└------------┘
mIRC is a popular IRC client for
Windows. You can download it at
the following URL:
http://www.mirc.com/get.html.
Though the splash screen says
that the program is a 30-day
evaluation version, you can
still use it after the 30 days
expire. Just wait a few seconds
on the splash screen until the
Continue button becomes active.

After installing and starting
mIRC:
1) The Options screen should
   appear. Enter a username into
   the Nickname box and
an alternate name to the
Alternate box. I recommend
listing your friend code in your
nickname as well (example:
"YourName|123456789012"). Enter
a fake name and fake e-mail
address to their corresponding
boxes. (You can use your real
name and e-mail if you like, but
there's no reason to do so.)
2) Click "Servers" in the
   category list on the left.
   Scroll down to Rizon in
the list and hit the Select
button on the right. This will
bring you back to the Connect
screen. Click the "Connect to
server" button and you should
log-in to the Rizon server with
your nickname.
3) The channels window will pop-
   up once you are logged in.
   Type "#Bleach_ds"
(without the quotes) and click
the Join button at the top of
the screen to enter the Bleach
DS channel.

┌----------------┐
│ USING TRILLIAN │
└----------------┘
Trillian is an instant messaging
/ chat program that is
compatible with several IM
protocols (AIM, MSN, etc). It's
useful if you just want to use
one program to take care of all
of your IM/chat needs. The
following guide was written by
Jayce. Skip to step 9 if you
already have Trillian installed.

1) Download Trillian here: http:
   //www.ceruleanstudios.com/dow
   nloads/
2) Install it where ever. It
   should launch after
   installing.
3) Choose Trillian Basic.
4) Choose your Trillian name and
   icon and click next.
5) Make sure IRC is checked
   along with any other chat
   program you want to use with
   Trillian and click next.
   next.
6) Click install.
7) Click Finish.
8) The Trillian window should be
   visible now with your name
   and icon at the top.
9) In Trillian press Alt+T.
   Click the option that says
   "Trillian Preferences..."
9A) (Only do this step if you
already had Trillian installed
previously.) Go
    into Plug-ins and check the 
10) In the window that pops up
    choose "Identities and
    Connections."
11) Click add a new connection
    and choose IRC.
12) Check the box on the bottom
    (Automatically connect to
    this account on startup) and
    fill in the bla following:
  [ Rizon Bleach Chan           
  [ irc.rizon.net               
[ Your screen name             ]
[ Your "real" name             ]
[ Any misc profile information ]
13) Click "Change..."
14) In the preform buffer box
    check the "After successful
    connection to irc ...
    preform following comman
15) In the text box under the
    preform buffer add "/join
    #Bleach_ds".
16) Click the misc tab and check
    the "rejoin channel when
    kicked" option.
17) Click save settings then
    click connect. You should
    join the BDS IRC chan every
    time you start Trillia

┌---------------┐
│ USING TINYIRC │
└---------------┘
The following was provided by
Gen2000. TinyIRC is useful in
that it does not require
installation and can be run from
a thumb drive or other removable
media.

1) Get the program from
   http://www.tinyirc.net.
2) Click on "Quick Connect".
3) In the Server Info category,
   change Server to
   irc.rizon.net. Leave the port
   number as is and don't worry
4) In the User Info category,
   change the Nickname to
   whatever nick you want to go
   by when in the #Bleach_ds
   nicks in case those nicks are
5) Click "Connect". When
   successfully connected to the
   server, type "/join
   #Bleach_ds" to enter the chan

It's a pretty basic irc program
but it gets the job done and
there are a few settings you can
mess around to change font or
background colors as well as
font sizes if you want it to
mirror the actual mirc program
font style and sizes.

┌----------------┐
│ USING JAVA IRC │
└----------------┘
Also provided by Gen2000. You
can run this version of IRC
directly from your browser.

1) Enter this URL into your
   address bar:
   http://searchirc.com/irc-
   bleach_ds-1
2) You will usually see at least
   2 results from the #Bleach_ds
   query on searchirc.com. From
   my listin
3) Click on the #Bleach_ds link
   after the irc:// heading.
   Your status bar Should
   indicate that it's a j will
   start, you may need to c
   asking you if you want to acc

This java applet for chatting is
pretty barebones, you can't even
resize the window but for those
don't want to download anything
(although I would recommend just
running TinyIRC from the zip
file off their website instead)
and still want to chat then you
try this method.

┌-------------------------------
│ SECTION XI: CREDITS, LEGAL
JUNK, AND VERSION HISTORY │
└-------------------------------
This document was written by
Sixfortyfive and intended for
publication on www.gamefaqs.com.
If you wish to host this guide
on another site, feel free to do
so. Just give credit where it's
due.

Shout out to Gen, Jayce, Dracil,
Yeti, Jesuits, DarkSchneider,
and the rest of the guys in the
IRC channel who helped me piece
all of this together.

1.01 (March 9, 2007)
 - added damage scaling info
 - added damage table info
 - added ground-to-air flash ste
 - completed reifu chart
1.00 (February 26, 2007)
 - added what's new section
 - reordered character list acco
 - corrected Japanese spelling o
 - added cameo appearances to ch
 - shortened lexicon
 - corrected information about s
 - corrected information about f
 - corrected information about f
 - added information about stopp
 - added information about chip 
 - added reiju/reiju list
 - added simple mode section
 - added menu/option translation
 - added Story Mode section
 - added VS Mode section
- added Other Game Modes section
 - added Deck Construction secti
 - added Shop & Gallery section
 - added some credits
 - combined Credits/History sect
0.10 (February 17, 2007)
 - initial release
