
FINAL FANTASY FABLES: CHOCOBO
TALES

By The Ambassador, a.k.a.
just4yoshi VERSION: 1.05
UPDATED: 05.24.08

================================

Table of Contents:
0. Introduction & Notes
1. Minigames (Quick Play Order)
    A. The Adamantoise and the
    Cactuar (A & C) B. Titan and
    the Beanstalk (B & T) C. The
    Ugly Chocoling (T U C) D.
    Unicorn and the Town
    Musicians (U & T M) E. Shiva
    and Ifrit (S & I) F. The Boy
    Who Cried Leviathan (B & L)
    G. The Three Little Piggies
    (T L P) H. Mini Red Riding
    Hood (M R R M)
2. Microgames (Quick Play Order)
3. Cards (Numerical Order)
4. Miscellaneous & FAQs
    A. The ULTIMATE Teams (Two
    of them) B. Absolute Best
    Cards List C. Maximum
    Possible Damage (80 & 120)
5. Contact & Legal

================================

---------------
0. Introduction
---------------

First off is the question of
just what is Final Fantasy
Fables: Chocobo Tales? The
answer is that it is a hybrid of
two genres, card battles and
minigames. Expect to see a lot
of elements of games such as
Mario Party, or on the other
hand, a trading card game
(Pokemon?). Also, don't let
either of those disappoint you.
While I have several, I am not
the largest fan of minigames,
but this game has a very diverse
range of them, and most are
interesting. Also, the card
battles are rather fun too,
especially the part of making
the decks or surviving for half
of a battle on just one HP!

As for this guide, it is meant
to give general help. Don't
expect to see all too much for
the story walkthrough, unless
it's in the FAQ section. This is
for the minigames, microgames
(which are actually minigames
too), and cards. Battles and
spots to collect items will
generally not be covered
(although do check the FAQ
because I do answer them as they
arise).

Finally, please note that in an
effort to make this guide
better, I have included my
opinions on the minigames,
microgames, and cards. As
opinions are subjective, you may
disagree. So, use my opinions,
but use them loosely and find
your own style and abilities.

================================

------------
1. Minigames
------------

NOTE: Maximum Difficulty/Luck is
6 stars.

A & C: Race to the Top:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: *

Directions: Hold down the stylus
in the direction you want to
head. If you pull off your
stylus, then the turtle becomes
immune to the boulders. One
advanced strategy is to let a
boulder that has almost past you
push you forward (by hitting you
from the opposite of the
direction you are going
towards).


A & C: Rescue on the Rapids:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: **

Directions: The controls are
similar to the first one.
However, you want to have your
stylus off for as much time as
possible. The first couple of
times, don't skip the intro and
instead learn the course. There
are two major strategies, and
both work well. The first is to
only touch the screen if you are
going to run into a wall. The
second is to only NOT touch the
screen on decent sections of
straightways. Either way works,
although I would suggest
starting with the second
technique until you know the
route better. For turning, you
can either hold down the stylus
in the direction you want to go
(better for strategy 2) or do
quick rotating motions (better
for strategy 1). Also, luck
plays a small factor in battle
mode, from turtles bouncing off
one another.


T & B: Leaping on Leaves:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: **

Directions: If you are familiar
with the trampoline minigame in
New Super Mario Bros, you will
feel right at home here. Use
your stylus to draw small (but
not too small) lines almost
horizontal to bounce your
chocobo the highest. The bombs
generally are on one side, then
the other. Later, both sides
have bombs or they move back and
forth (the luck factor). Try to
aim slightly, and don't be
afraid to let your chocobo fall
a bit if it means a better setup
for the next leaf.


T & B: Scurry Down the Stalk:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: This is one of the
nastier minigames. However, the
hardest part is knowing HOW to
do it. Draw leaves at about
60-degree angles (mostly
vertical) because, for some
reason, walking is faster than
falling. Go figure. Beyond that,
it's really up to you to make
your own strategy. Staying
closer to the bottom and hitting
speed ups are great, but you
must balance that with getting
the coins. Same holds true for
the trial mode (and note that
you do lose coins if hit). Luck
comes from where the coins and
speed/slow downs are, as well as
where your opponents are in the
battle mode. Find your own
rhythm and just keep drawing
those leaves.


T U C: Find that Fiery Chocobo:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: For this one, put
your stylus on the magnifying
glass to move it around. Follow
the top screen more with your
eyes and keep looking for
flames. It has to be flames
though as later other dark
chocobos also show up. Just keep
moving around and you'll
probably win if luck is on your
side.


T U C: Flaming Frenzy:
Difficulty: ***
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: Say hi to luck in
this game. Just stay rather
close to the water and keep
double-tapping. Go for coins,
yes, but moreso go for your
opponents. This one is all about
the endgame. You can be about 5
coins behind with 5 seconds left
and STILL win (when there's
quite a few chocobos playing).
Just keep at it and keep
rolling. Eventually luck will
side with you and you'll win.


U & T M: Mimic that Melody:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: **

Directions: Now don't start
flaming me. I do say this one is
easy. However, at first I
thought it was impossible. The
key is that you don't try to hit
the symbol AS it comes up,
rather BEFORE it does. It
doesn't matter if you're a
second early; just as long as
you're on the correct one when
it comes up. Battle mode is a
bit tougher as the chocobos can
sometime last a long time (luck
factor). Still, just always go
to the correct one before it
comes up.


U & T M: Symphonic Survivor:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: I wonder if I ever
moved normally in this game.
Keep double-tapping. This time,
it's not for knocking into
others (although you can try to
do that); instead, it's the
fastest way to get to the
different symbols. And, the game
ultimately comes down to a
balance of staying close to the
edge (to make it to the next
symbol in time) and not getting
knocked off. Find your style and
stick with it.

S & I: Lunging for Lasans:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: Hold the stylus on
your chocobo and fly him back
and forth on the top of the
screen, trying to pick up those
fruits. Don't be afraid to do
some acrobatics if it will help
you get more fruit. And, I don't
think you lose any if you get
hit (just time).


S & I: Leaping for Luchiles:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: **

Directions: Use your stylus to
grab your chocobo and fling him
upwards. Try to make him arc
from one side to the other in a
gentle but high curve and you'll
get most of the luchiles every
time. This one might take
several practice runs, but after
you get the hang of it, it isn't
the worst. Also, for trial mode,
take your time to line up your
shots well.


B & L: Underwater Escapades:
Difficulty:  *****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: This is one that's
bound to give a lot of people
problems. Large difficulty and
luck is not the best
combination. Trial mode is okay,
but battle mode is something
else entirely. Expect to be
having to navigate very VERY
tight spaces to win it on tough
settings (or even on easier
ones). The trick is to move your
stylus up and down in quick but
controlled movements. Move
faster if you need to rise or
less if you need to fall. Just
do NOT stop moving (unless you
absolutely have to) nor lose
control. Be in control of your
movements at all times and
you'll eventually make it
through with a lot of luck and
practice.


B & L: Bubbling Barrage:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: **

Directions: First, this is a
double-tap mission so guess
what? You only use double-tap of
course. To start, double tap
straight up to try to get into
his first loop. In fact, this is
the entirety of the strategy: be
in the loops when he makes them.
Try to stay near his head on the
side that he's turning towards
and dart (double-tap) into any
loop he makes, collect 3 fish,
and find his hear. Repeat until
time expires (and knock into
competitors of course).

T L P: Puzzled Little Piggies:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: First, grab whatever
piece you can find and put it in
the middle of the large house.
Then keep flying around, looking
for the largest piece that will
fit in a house. Finally, if
there's only 2-3 pieces left in
a house, find all of them first
and then put them in, just to be
sure you get the bonus for
finishing the house; similarly,
if you see another chocobo with
a piece coming in when there's
only two left, find the other,
or, if you already have it, WAIT
for him to play his first. Then,
you get the bonus ;).


T L P: Hide and Shriek:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: Ah, another nasty
one. I can't stand this
minigame. It's actually my least
favorite, partly due to no nice
epilogue. Anyways, listen up.
This is one of only two
minigames with double tap that
you DON'T double-tap on. I
repeat. Don't double-tap. Just
run. You run at about the speed
of a tonberry, so if you get one
on your tail just run around
(and not into anything) until
you can pass him onto another
chocobo. This one is tough to
get perfect on and heavily
relies on luck (of being in the
right place at the right time).
Also, WARNING: any "dead"
chocobo turns into a tonberry,
so don't go by the upper screen
alone or you may find yourself
running into a chocobo turned
tonberry.


M R R H: Lightning-Fast
Labyrinth: Difficulty: *** Luck
Factor: ***

Directions: Best hint here is to
take your time. First off, you
hold the chocobo (not point him
as I first tried). Beware of
sharp turns and the final area.
Take your time and don't get hit
to make the fastest time. Also,
with that said, you may have to
take a few risks with the moving
ones, so take a risk if you have
a decent chance of making it,
just try to plan out your path
beforehand.


M R R H: Shocking Shuffle:
Difficulty: *
Luck Factor: *

Directions: Isn't it a shame
that the final minigame is the
easiest and most boring of them
all? The entire strategy is to
NOT double-tap and just round
around counter clockwise until
everyone else dies. Don't try to
attack. They're idiots. They'll
kill themselves eventually, even
on the hardest setting, so just
stay out of harm's way.

================================

-------------
2. Microgames
-------------

NOTE: All of these are written
about the gold medal. Also, the
max stars is 6.

BOMBERWALL:
Difficulty:  *****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: Wasn't it so nice of
them to start with a doosy of a
microgame? Anyways, tap fast,
but do it slowly (this will be a
common theme). The strategy is
to go fast, but to always look
ahead. It may take an extra
millisecond, but it's worth it
to not hit wrong. Try to get the
first crown in 5 seconds or less
to be in a good position to get
the remaining ones. Focus.
Focus. Speed. Focus. Speed.
Focus. That is the way to win,
but expect it to take a while,
especially on your first
playthrough.

CLIFFHANGER:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: *

Directions: I know some people
struggle with this one. The key
is to know your timing.
Approximately a half second
after seeing the 20m point, tap
to stop. Play around with the
timing until you get within the
distance. The nice thing is that
this one is fast, so you can try
quite a few times in a short
period of time. Try to beat my
record of
0.36m ;).


BLAZING BLOCKS:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: This one may seem
harder at first than it really
is. All that you need to do is
to get rid of the CRYSTALS.
Anything else doesn't matter.
Like most microgames, the key to
going fast is to take your time.
Set up the blocks first and
learn from a mistake (you get
two bouts at a setup, I think).
Also, you can get lucky and get
a quick one-block tap that will
destroy everything in one swoop,
which is always nice ;).


BLOWGUN BLITZ:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: Patience is the
biggest key here. Breathe in and
wait... and wait... and wait...
until you get a set of about 4-5
balloons on the bottom portion
that will all get hit when you
exhale. If you wait to long,
look up to breathe out and in
again so you don't lose a dart.
Trust me, it's far better to do
this "micro"game in five minutes
for one time than it is to do it
ten times in five minutes and
STILL not have gold. Be patient
and you will eventually get a
lucky lineup.


JOB JUGGLER:
Difficulty:  ******
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: OUCH! The maximum of
either is 6 stars, and this gets
10 total. It is NASTY. The "key"
(if there is one) is to take
that millisecond to make sure
you make the correct choice.
Also, at the very end, it does
NOT close fully. You still have
a very small section to see the
characters, which might well end
up being that 20th one you need.
Beyond that, there are two
strategies for completing it.
The first is to just keep at it
constantly until you win. The
second is to realize that the
setup on the bottom is the same
after you press start, so
memorize it first so you know
where everyone (or at least most
of them) is for quicker
selection. I actually used a
hybrid, trying to group similar
characters together in my mind
so I would hopefully know the
whereabouts of a character
without knowing the exact
location. Good luck and have fun
getting 18 or 19 over and over
again... Make sure you have
something to celebrate with for
when you do reach 20.


SILLY SCRIBBLES:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: **

Directions: This is one of the
easier microgames, in my
opinion. Simply pick the one
with more pictures. If you can't
tell, pick the one that looks
like it was meant to look like
it had fewer ones (such as
having a lot of small ones or
all in one small area), as that
will normally be the correct
one.


CHEESE CHASE:
Difficulty: ** or *****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: This one really
depends on your blowing skills.
If you are good at doing very
controlled blowing, try to stay
in the middle, as there is an
area that you are totally safe
(the place where you're off the
screen at the split between the
screens). Try to focus on one
area (the row you're one and the
ones directly above and below)
mostly as it will help you
focus. Keep movements as
controlled as possible. If you
are really not good with blowing
(as I wasn't at first), you can
either go a lot riskier at the
start or try a method of rubbing
your hand against the microphone
(I have not been able to make
this method work, but others
have used it instead of
blowing).


BUBBLE BOUNCE:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: This seems to be one
of the harder ones, but most of
that comes from luck. Sometimes
the bubbles will be in easy-to-
hit areas. Other times, you'll
almost need one cactuar per
bubble. The main thing is to
spend the first few times
learning the angles that get you
the proper bounce positions,
especially learning the angles
for the tougher-to-reach
bubbles. Another idea is to hold
the ball pretty far left as that
allows for more control over the
angle of bouncing.


MALBORO MASHER:
Difficulty:  *****
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: Ouch, another
10-star total one. As you can
gather, this is another tough
one. And, like many other tough
ones, this holds to that general
strategy of taking an extra
millisecond to plan before
acting. Go in the order of
appearance, NO MATTER WHAT. If
you're in one corner and going
to the opposite one and there's
a malboro in the middle, DON'T
hit it. That will cost you time
you really don't have. Let it
wait for it's turn. Seriously,
it is better to just go in
order. This is tough when they
are coming at basically warp
speed, but still do your best.
The best strategy for me was to
go somewhere quiet for a half
hour until I was able to focus
enough to beat it in one
sitting. Focus, practice, skill,
speed, sight, etc. It's ALL
needed. Good luck.


TAP TAP TRAP:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: Don't get mad. Yes,
I rank this as only two stars in
difficulty. Next time you play,
look at just how much luck is
involved. The best strategy I
have found is to do several taps
around the outside then a couple
in the middle. Look for any
circle that's a bit bigger.
Generally, you can find it in
the initial taps. If not, do
more taps for the second run-
through. If you find a larger
circle, tap like crazy all
around it. Be a woodpecker and
you'll win with some luck.


JELLY JIGGLER: Difficulty:
****** Luck Factor: *****
Directions: This may well be the
most talked about microgame, and
for a good reason. It's the
toughest of them all for me,
with a total 11-star roundup!
Prepare to lose about an hour on
this one. My strategy is to grab
a wall and not let go, just
circle with it. Also, it is
basically a requirement that if
you do this strategy to train
your brain to see all 3 walls
(it's natural to just think
about the one you're turning).
This one is NASTY. One advanced
technique is to attempt to get
the red and green balls on the
exact same paths by using good
angling. However, this starts to
fall apart after about 45
seconds as the red ball slowly
speeds up faster than the green
ball. Still, it's a good
strategy, and one of the two
times I beat the microgame is
due to having the red and green
together. Basically, find a
strategy that gets you over 40
seconds and refine it and get
lucky to raise it up to 60
seconds.


MAGIC POT LUCK:
Difficulty:  *
Luck Factor: ******

Directions: Another highly-
discussed microgame, this one is
almost entirely based on luck,
which makes it annoying... very
annoying. There are two basic
"strategies". One is to attempt
to guess the next position
(sounds strange, but I got up to
35 using this strategy once...
and have yet to repeat that feat
after countless times). The
second is probably more fun:
pass the DS around to family
members, friends, etc. to see
who is the luckiest. If you
want, offer a small reward to
whoever manages to beat the odds
:P. Just keep at it and
eventually luck will side with
you.


BOGGLING BRIDGES:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: The best strategy is
to stay ahead then give up. Let
me explain. Keep rotating
bridges in front of him to make
a path, but if/when he catches
up, at the next cheese, stop
going forward. Instead, work
from the idea of him turning
around and set him on his next
path to the cheese. Also, try to
balance getting close cheese
(which isn't necessarily closest
as a bird would fly) and getting
to a nice string of cheese (pun
not intended).


MYSTIFYING MAGNETS:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: Plan then move.
Beware of the crossroads one
too. Try to figure out where it
goes first if you get one in
your set. Just plan ahead and
you should do fine (if you
happen to get a nice set of
problems).


LEAPTOAD:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: This one has been
known to cause a lot of
troubles. My strategy is to
combine doing a lot of short
leaps (as I move around the pond
for good positions) and long
leaps (at those good positions).
This is a hybrid of the two main
strategies of using mainly large
leaps or a lot of little ones.
If you're quick at moving the
leaves, try focusing on more
short leaps. Else, focus on
setting up the large ones. Be
much more risky at the start.
Just keep moving (unless you are
drawing the monster in to setup
a leap). Also, moving mostly
around the outside is
recommended. Basically, go for
notes, then for survival (when
the monster is moving rather
fast), then for any notes you
can grab (when the monster is
approaching warp speed).


BLIZZARDY BLOCKS:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: First, know that the
difficulty is probably less for
me because this is my favorite
microgame. There are three basic
ideas to winning. The first is
that if you need him to go up a
level, you don't have to make a
stack of ice, just place one
where you actually need it. The
second is that a double-stack
(or a trio of below, above, and
front) will cause him to turn
around (use it to save time).
The third and most important is
to keep the chocobo as high up
as you can. It is FAR easier to
drop down than to climb. Also,
along the same lines, when you
do have to go down to collect a
fruit, try to have a set of
stairs lined up right after the
fruit to start climbing again.
Finally, note that a direct walk
is the fastest (basically I'm
saying that --- is faster than
-_- where the lines are the top
of blocks).


UP, UP, AND A-KWEH!
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: **

Directions: There are two parts
to this game. The first is to
time your jump to leap at the
last moment possible (or close
to it works as well). The second
is your aim. You should try to
make the top of your chocobo's
head be somewhere in or just
below that top cloud. Think of
it as being like his hat. Try a
variety of short and long swipes
and hand angles and eventually
you'll get 400.


WACKY WALL CLIMB:
Difficulty:  ****
Luck Factor: ***

Directions: This one can take a
while to do. As with most tough
ones, the key to winning is to
plan ahead. Generally, one side
will be full of short leaps
and/or electric things and the
other will basically be scott
free of them. So, keep looking
ahead to find the best path.
It's a whole lot better to even
lose a second looking at the
path than to lose two seconds
dealing with electricity (and
possible electrocution). Also,
along the same lines, give
yourself that extra millisecond
when placing your suction cup
thing to make sure it actually
connects for that will also save
time (and frustration).

DEADLY DEMON WALL:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: ****

Directions: Another one I don't
like. There are two basic
strategies. First is if you have
excellent aim, go for OHKOs of
your chocobos. If you're like
me, aim in front of the little
guys and tap like mad. Good luck
getting those speeders at the
end. When you get that far, move
your starting position back to
the left some so you can move to
position in time (although you
will eventually be almost
tapping AT the wall).


REDEYE RAMPAGE:Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: There are two basic
strategies: hit all and hit
center. Hit all means that,
while you aim for the center,
your primary concern is to just
hit all of the eyes; this is a
decent strategy as I have hit a
few 100s from simply trying to
catch an eye. The second is to
aim much more for the center of
the eye, and if a few slip by,
that's okay. For either way, it
is VITAL to learn the "sweet
spot". For me, this meant
tapping just a bit forward of
the eye (forward meaning ahead
of where the eye is moving
towards). The bullseye is NOT
necessarily where you see the
bullseye being. So, find where
it truly is and aim there
instead.


TOME RAIDER: Difficulty: ****
Luck Factor: ***** Directions:
This is a tough one. And, to
sound like a broken record, it
is MUCH better to plan ahead.
Take up to a half second to plan
your moves before you make them.
Mistakes normally cost 2 seconds
but can cost up to 5 seconds to
fix. So PLAN AHEAD. The first
few playthroughs, try to learn
the strategies for setting up
the three jewels in the best
ways possible. Also, good luck;
you'll need it. If you get a
whole bunch of answers that keep
being the opposite of what you
just did, you have basically no
hope of winning. On the
flipside, I have gotten several
one-move solutions ;).


RODEO ROUNDUP:
Difficulty:  ***
Luck Factor: *****

Directions: Slow and steady is
what wins the race yet again.
Going for tons of 1s, 2s, 3s, or
even 4s is not the way to win.
Think of it this way: you only
need a handful of 10-in-a-loops
to win. The exponential scoring
requires you to go for larger
numbers. And, don't be afraid to
use strange shapes either. Also
note that getting two sets of 7
and two sets with bees is almost
better than FOUR sets of 5 (98
vs. 100). So, don't worry about
the bees as much. Worry about
huge sets.


CRAZY CREDITS:
Difficulty:  **
Luck Factor: *

Directions: If you don't know
what this microgame is, tap the
O's while the credits scroll.
ONLY the O's (upper or lower
case). Not much else that I can
say besides to be precise. It's
probably a good idea to beat the
game twice if you want to also
look at the pictures.

================================

--------
3. Cards
--------

Note the setup of how I am doing
these (also note max is 8 stars
in any category):

(Card Number): (Creature):
(Attack Name): Attack: (Normally
the card damage, but NOT ALWAYS)
Defense: (Based on number of
guard spots and if it is a
  guard-based attack (no sword
  icon))
Special: (Anything beyond damage
that the card does,
  healing gets the most stars
  from me)
Rating: (The chances of seeing
it in one of my decks,
  which is the best way I
  thought of doing an overall
  rating)
Notes: (Anything I want to say
about the card)


001: Ifrit: Fireblast: Attack:
*** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 15% Notes: An alright
card. I like having the guard,
but compared to some others,
this one doesn't normally cut
it.

002: Ifrit: Fireblast+: Attack:
*** Defense: * Special: **
Rating: 0% Notes: If you want
this card, do the normal version
as generally a defense spot is
better than rebound.

003: Ifrit: Flame Ward: Attack:
* Defense: *** Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: I don't think
I have EVER used this card. It's
pathetic. It is guard-based,
which is nice, but only one of
those even deals damage. If you
want to use it, check Lamia's
Entice ones instead as they are
MUCH better.

004: Ifrit: Scorched Earth:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
** Rating: 5% Notes: This one is
below-average (3-stars) in all
areas, but that does mean it
doesn't have a major weakness.
Chances are you won't be using
it.

005: Ifrit: Forest Fire: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 10% Notes: This one can
be rather powerful, but it is a
situational powerful. You
probably won't be using it too
much, but it is an asset if you
are going for a red-based deck.

006: Ifrit: Hellfire: Attack:
***** Defense: ** Special: **
Rating: 20% Notes: If I am using
an Ifrit card, chances are it's
this one. The CP requirement is
high, but it has a good attack
and at least one defense. Still,
there are better cards out
there.

007: Bomb: Fiery Tango: Attack:
** Defense: ** Special: **
Rating: 5% Notes: You can expect
to see this card some as it's a
favorite of the computer cards.
It's a nice starter, but with a
lower power, it doesn't often
make it to my decks.

008: Bomb: Delta Guard: Attack:
* Defense: ****** Special: **
Rating: 20% Notes: Argh, if only
this one had a better use
besides burn. Oh well, with the
strong defense, it has a chance
of being in my decks.

009: Bomb: Self-Destruct:
Attack: ** Defense: *** Special:
(-1) Rating: 0% Notes: No wonder
this is called a risky move. For
me, if I am using it, I probably
have used a lot of red card, so
it will probably hurt me more
than him, which is why I don't
use it. If you have this as your
only red card, it might work
well... but I would rather have
some other red cards in its
stead.

010: Bomb: Self-Destruct+:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
(-1) Rating: 0% Notes: Okay, if
you use this, please let me know
why. This card makes no sense to
me. First, your opponent HAS to
use a red attack card. Then, he
has to have a lot of red
crystals for this to be of any
use. I don't touch this card
with a 10-foot pole.

011: Bomb: Explode: Attack:
***** Defense: * Special: ***
Rating: 10% Notes: For me, if I
am going for a mostly red hand,
this'll probably be there. If
not, the 3 red CP and no defense
keep me away. Decent attack
though.

012: Bomb: Explode+: Attack:
****** Defense: * Special:
****** Rating: 20% Notes: This
has a high CP count, but it's
worth it if you can reach it
(most of my hands can't, which
is the reason for the low
percentage). However, the
special can absolutely destroy
your opponent's plans. In fact,
I play this card more for the
special than the attack.

013: Lamia: Tail: Attack: *
Defense: *** Special: ** Rating:
15% Notes: I use this card
mainly for defense and as a
means to easily generate red
crystals. Beyond that, it's
pretty bad. 014: Lamia: Song:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
*** Rating: 0% Notes: While
silence is handy, there are
simply other, better cards that
are red when this has no
defense.

015: Lamia: Maiden's Kiss:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
****** Rating: 70% Notes: I like
a good healer, and this does it.
It is a guaranteed heal, not
based on CP, which is nice. It
also has and attack, unlike some
heals. The CP requirements are
rather low too. It all wraps up
into a rather nice package, good
enough to make it to my
"ultimate" team.

016: Lamia: Maiden's Kiss+:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
** Rating: 5% Notes: Bummer,
instead of being an even better
healer, they nerfed the card,
giving it burn instead of
healing. Besides an extra
damage, that's the only
difference. However, it's not
completely useless, just mostly.

017: Lamia: Entice: Attack: **
Defense: *** Special: ***
Rating: 50% Notes: This is
actually a decent card. I use it
and Entice+ interchangeably.
However, Entice+ made the
ultimate cut due to an extra
damage. Still, stealing CP is
generally nice, but it can also
end up hurting you, which is why
I go for the + version. This is
really up to use. It's a good
card, one of the better ones.

018: Lamia: Entice+: Attack: ***
Defense: *** Special: ***
Rating: 60% Notes: If it's on my
"ultimate" team, it's good. I
use this card a lot. It's decent
in all areas, and destroying CP
is a nice bonus. Also,
destroying instead of stealing
means that it doesn't mess up my
plans.

019: Phoenix: Fire Strike:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Some might
like this card. It isn't
necessarily bad, it's just based
on luck of guard zones, which I
don't enjoy (and the attack is
only 2 per zone).

020: Phoenix: Blazing Barrier:
Attack: ** Defense: *** Special:
*** Rating: 30% Notes: This is a
good card. Damage isn't too
high, but having defense is
nice. If only the defense wasn't
for only one turn (you don't
have it for the current turn
even if you go first). I would
use it more if some of the green
cards weren't better. Still,
it's a good card, especially if
you are going for a mainly red
hand.

021: Phoenix: Undying Spirit:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
***** Rating: 55% Notes: As with
many Phoenix cards, I like this
one. My only problem with it is
that Maiden's Kiss and Undying
Spirit+ seem stronger to me, and
having two healers is enough for
me. Still, it is a nice addition
to most decks.

022: Phoenix: Undying Spirit+:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
****** Rating: 70% Notes: Lose a
guard and gain an extra heal per
CP. I'll take that trade most of
the time. To get the most out of
it, I actually try to go second
instead (assuming I have a lot
of HP left). That way any strike
is negated by the large amount
of health I'll be getting back
;). Nice card.

023: Phoenix: Flames of Rebirth:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
*** Rating: 30% Notes: The
percentage nowadays is lower,
but this used to be one in
basically all of my decks. It
especially helps at the start,
but in a long-drawn-out battle,
it loses a lot of effectiveness.
Still, it's a decent card.

024: Phoenix: Flames of
Rebirth+: Attack: *** Defense:
** Special: (-1) Rating: 0%
Notes: I guess this card is good
with bomb or something. I just
don't get the point of making
all of my crystals the same
color. Normally, I have about
two of each (and I like it that
way). 025: Adamantoise: Turtle
Power: Attack: * Defense:
******** Special: * Rating: 35%
Notes: This doesn't do much, but
what it does, it does well. This
is the card I keep tucked away
for when I have a terrible hand
and my opponent is looking to
destroy me that turn. It's an
excellent catch-all, but beyond
that, the use is limited. Take
Turtle Power+ first, and if you
want a second backup, please
take it. It does its job very
well.

026: Adamantoise: Turtle Power+:
Attack: ** Defense: ********
Special: * Rating: 80% Notes:
This is one of my most common
cards. The color boost comes
into play a lot actually. Use it
and you won't be disappointed.
The best time to use it is for
gray cards (as you don't
generally know what attack they
will be), which is where it
shines the most. Of course, it
also is a great staller if you
don't have a good card to use.

027: Adamantoise: Miraculous
Shell: Attack: *** Defense:
****** Special: * Rating: 75%
Notes: Back-to-back winners :).
This is a great card. It does
require some CP, but even
without the CP, it's a good
blocker. And, if you have the
CP, you get to attack with a
strong attack and almost no
chance of getting hit. Nice!

028: Adamantoise: Miraculous
Shell+: Attack: ** Defense:
****** Special: ** Rating: 25%
Notes: Dealing one less damage
is a large drawback to me when
there's a lot of good cards.
However, if you like to use
status effects, use it and enjoy
it. I still use it in some
decks. I should probably use it
more, but there are quite a few
GYB triple blockers.

029: Adamantoise: Slowspell:
Attack: *** Defense: ****
Special: *** Rating: 40% Notes:
This is a lovely card,
especially for those of you who
like to be the attackers. If you
want to attack, use it. If you
like to guard, use Miraculous
Shell. If you want to, use both
like I sometimes do ;).

030: Adamantoise: Mighty Guard:
Attack: * Defense: ******
Special: *** Rating: 20% Notes:
Damage halved and a good amount
of guarding is nice. CP
requirements are not, especially
because it doesn't have an
attack. Still, it's alright, so
use it if you want.

031: Cactuar: Spinning Needle:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
*** Rating: 0% Notes: If you
want to use this card, use
Slowspell instead. It has the
EXACT damage and effect but two
extra guard spots.

032: Cactuar: Ambush: Attack:
*** Defense: *** Special: ***
Rating: 10% Notes: This is
actually a good card, being
average in all areas. If only
there weren't so many other
cards that had the yellow/blue
guard setup. Still, if you don't
have those other cards, use this
one.

033: Cactuar: Poison Barb:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
** Rating: 0% Notes: For me,
poison is worse than going
first, so Spinning Needle is
directly better and Slowspell is
better still. Thus, this card
normally is left out of my deck.

034: Cactuar: Photosynthesis:
Attack: * Defense: ******
Special: ***** Rating: 75%
Notes: How about a card that you
almost never get hit on that
refills your HP too? That's what
this card does. The CP
requirement is a bit tough, but
the benefits are great. Also,
yellow CP seems to be, on
average, the most created color,
so healing being based on yellow
CP is nice (a straight heal
might be nicer, but can't have
everything). A great package
deal that is almost always in my
decks.

035: Cactuar: 1000 Needles:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Sorry, but
you just don't cut it. If I have
that CP, I'll be using
Photosynthesis. If I don't,
you're worthless. Also, the
attack is a bit low for
requiring two CP.

036: Cactuar: 1000 Needles+:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
** Rating: 5% Notes: I actually
use this on rare occasions. If I
have that much green CP, I might
just use poison. Still, I think
there are probably other, better
cards.

037: Unicorn: Rush: Attack: ***
Defense: * Special: *** Rating:
0% Notes: Basically the only use
is for sealing CP. 3 attack with
no protection... once more
Slowspell works better for me.
Same attack, more guard,
different special.

038: Unicorn: Healing Kick:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
** Rating: 0% Notes: This card
is a total letdown. HEALING
Kick??? All it does is remove
statuses. Big deal. I guess it
is one of the only cards that
does remove statuses, but is it
really worth it to have such a
situational card in your deck?
The only two statuses I really
worry about are defense (a GOOD
status) and CP sealing. I don't
want to get rid of defense :P
and if I want to unseal myself,
why not just wait for the end of
the turn? Doesn't that do the
same thing? I think so.

039: Unicorn: Fountainhead:
Attack: * Defense: *** Special:
(-1) Rating: 0% Notes: The only
reason I see to use this card is
if you are about to you the
green Typhon card. Else, don't
touch it at all. I know I don't.

040: Unicorn: Fountainhead+:
Attack: * Defense: *** Special:
*** Rating: 0% Notes: This one
is loads more useful than the
normal version (at least to me),
but it's still not good enough
for my teams. However, if you
don't mind the 3 CP, you may
like it as it really disrupts
your opponent's plans.

041: Unicorn: Gale Strike:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Ah,
comparison to Slowspell again.
Slowspell is not luck-based and
has an extra guard, not to
mention an effect. If you like
luck though, I guess it's not
bad...

042: Unicorn: Gale Strike+:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: If you like
luck, you might like this card.
I don't like luck, so I will
stick to cards with more
defense.

043: Titan: Gaia's Wrath:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
*** Rating: 0% Notes: This is a
rather unique card in that if
you attack a card that also has
a green attack, you still do
full damage. However, with a 2
CP need and no defense, this
doesn't cut it for my decks.

044: Titan: Boulder Toss:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
*** Rating: 5% Notes: Compared
to Slowspell, this is again
weaker, but it does have its
moments with the CP crush. Use
it if you want; I do on rare
occasions.

045: Titan: Earthen Fist:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 15% Notes: I
actually use this card in a good
number of decks. 5 damage for 1
CP is a decent deal and one
defense helps. It may not be the
best, but it works in a pinch.

046: Titan: Earthen Fist+:
Attack: ***** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 30% Notes: 2
CP for 7 attack? I'll take that
trade if I am doing an attack-
based deck. This is a nice card,
a good addition to a lot of
decks.

047: Titan: Fissure: Attack: ***
Defense: ** Special: * Rating:
5% Notes: I will use this one
rare occasions. At least the CP
requirement helps the attack
power. I still like other ones
better (such as Photosynthesis
for the same CP requirements).

048: Titan: Fissure+: Attack:
*** Defense: * Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: If you are
reading in order, you already
know what I think about luck
attacks. Still, if you don't
mind the luck and no defense,
it's a good card. It's just not
for me.

049: Shiva: Chilling Whisper:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: No defense
and a freeze? I think I'll pass.
It might be good as an early
setup for a strong attack, but
that's not for me.

050: Shiva: Extinguish: Attack:
*** Defense: ** Special: ***
Rating: 5% Notes: This one has
its uses. I am not the biggest
fan of a CP crush, but it could
hurt your opponent, and it at
least has one defense.

051: Shiva: Extinguish+: Attack:
*** Defense: ** Special: ****
Rating: 5% Notes: An extra CP
requirement but to take away all
red CP? For you that might be a
good trade. For me, both the
normal and plus versions are
about on an even footing. If you
want one, just take your pick.

052: Shiva: Snow Veil: Attack:
** Defense: *** Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: I like guard
cards, but this one seems
pointless. It guards only half
of attacks and only does damage
for 25% of them. That's too
based on luck for me.

053: Shiva: Diamond Dust:
Attack: ***** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 15% Notes: 8
attack for 3 CP and a defense?
Sometimes that's good enough for
me. This card can do some good
damage. I have seen it used
effectively a lot. Still, the CP
requirement stops me from
constantly using it. Good card
though.

054: Shiva: Heavenly Strike:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 15%Notes:
This, Diamond Dust, or both,
take your pick. Both are good
cards with a higher CP cost.
This one is more based on luck,
but red CP is not uncommon.

055: Leviathan: Tail Whip:
Attack: ** Defense: * Special:
*** Rating: 0% Notes: For a low
attack and no defense, stealing
3 CP just isn't worth it for me.
Perhaps it is a good starter
card, but I don't like it.

056: Leviathan: Thunder Storm:
Attack: ** Defense: * Special:
*** Rating: 5% Notes: With no
defense and little attack, how
does this one make the cut
sometimes? Simple. This is the
ONLY color card that has a
direct attack that is NOT the
color of the card. It's a great
way to surprise your opponent
;). Still, it rarely makes it
into my decks.

057: Leviathan: Geyser: Attack:
* Defense: *** Special: (-1)
Rating: 0% Notes: Can someone
PLEASE tell me the point to
turning all of your own CP to
the same color? Is it for
Typhon? I just don't get a card
like this.

058: Leviathan: Geyser+: Attack:
* Defense: *** Special: ***
Rating: 0% Notes: At least this
one makes more sense. Still for
a semi-large CP requirement,
there are probably better ways
to disrupt your opponent's
plans.

059: Leviathan: Tidal Wave:
Attack: *** Defense: *****
Special: * Rating: 75% Notes:
This is one of my most-used
cards. It didn't make the cut
for my "ultimate" team, but if
there had been 16 slots, it
might have. Great defense with a
decent attack makes this card an
asset to most decks.

060: Leviathan: Tidal Wave+:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 40% Notes: To
me, I like the original better.
Still, if you are one who likes
strong attacks over defense, use
it and enjoy. It's a great card.

061: Mist Dragon: Mist Breath:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
**** Rating: 0% Notes: Sealing
CP is nice, but with a low
attack and defense, this card
rarely makes the cut.

062: Mist Dragon: Billowing
Mist: Attack: * Defense: ***
Special: **** Rating: 50% Notes:
This card isn't not the easiest
to get to play, but it certainly
has its place in some decks. My
first playthrough, this card
saved my neck many times.
Because it's a guard healer, it
gets onto my "ultimate" team.

063: Mist Dragon: Aqua Breath:
Attack: *** Defense: * Special:
** Rating: 0% Notes: This might
get into some decks if it wasn't
for the 2 CP requirement. That
is just too high for no defense,
a weak special, and an average
attack.

064: Mist Dragon: Aqua Breath+:
Attack: ** Defense: * Special:
******* Rating: 40% Notes: If
you are doing a blue-based deck,
this card is a must. Just 4 blue
CP will totally restore you and
do some damage too. Problem is
that 3 CP is a bit steep for a
multi-colored deck. It's an
awesome card for what it does
though, so if it sounds like
you, don't hesitate to use it.

065: Mist Dragon: Ice Bind:
Attack: ** Defense: *** Special:
** Rating: 25% Notes: Just how
did a 25% make it to the
"ultimate" team? Two answers.
First is that it barely made it.
Second is that it works well in
certain situations. It may one
day be replaced with Leviathan's
Tidal Wave. It's still a good
card (has to be to make the
team).

066: Mist Dragon: Ice Bind+:
Attack: ** Defense: *** Special:
** Rating: 20% Notes: This is
nearly identical to Ice Bind,
except it steals CP instead of
freezes. Personally, I like to
plan my CP more, so I use the
normal. The choice is really
yours.

067: Bismarck: No Mercy: Attack:
** Defense: ****** Special: ***
Rating: 75% Notes: This is a
great card. It has only spot to
be attacked in and has a halfway
decent attack and special. I
wish the attack was a bit
higher, but still, it is a great
all-around card.

068: Bismarck: Engulf: Attack:
*** Defense: ** Special: **
Rating: 10% Notes: You can use
this card if you like to steal
CP. It is decent in most areas,
but it also doesn't really
excel.

069: Bismarck: Engulf+: Attack:
*** Defense: * Special: ***
Rating: 0% Notes: Trading
defense for a CP destruction
just doesn't cut it for me.
There are better 3-attack that
have some defense to them.

070: Bismarck: Breach Blast:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Me no like
luck. This one is based on luck,
and luck of guard zones at that.
I don't mess with it.

071: Bismarck: Breach Blast+:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: You can get
lucky and pull off a really
powerful attack, but with a one-
of-each CP requirement and no
defense and a strong luck
factor, this doesn't make it to
my decks.

072: Bismarck: Maelstrom:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
* Rating: 5% Notes: I rarely use
this card. It has some luck to
it and requires two CP, but it's
not all that bad... I just like
other cards better.

073: Carbuncle: Shining Star:
Attack: ** Defense: *** Special:
*** Rating: 45% Notes: This one
is mostly average, and it's a
defense card, which I like.
There are a few better ones, but
this one is still good with the
CP seal, barely making it to the
"ultimate" team.

074: Carbuncle: Quickstomp:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
*** Rating: 30% Notes: I see a
lot of this card at the start.
It's one of the few that gives 4
attack without any CP, and it
has a special! If only it was a
guard card, this would make it
to the "ultimate" team. Still,
it gets on to many of my teams.

075: Carbuncle: Ruby Light:
Attack: * Defense: ******
Special: ****** Rating: 90%
Notes: This is my most-used card
of all. For 2 CP you can turn
around any attack that you want!
Even better, you don't worry
about meeting CP requirements
(although if the attack/special
is CP-based, it does use yours).
With this card, I can use
Explode+ without ANY red CP! No
wonder it's in my "ultimate"
team (and just about any other
team).

076: Carbuncle: Ruby Light+:
Attack: * Defense: ******
Special: ******** Rating: 75%
Notes: OUCHIE! Opponents beware
if you are using this card!
Double the pain (and any
specials). No CP requirements
(for the returned card). This
card absolutely rules. The
problem is that crazy CP
requirement for the card. But
hey, it's what stops this card
from being crazy overpowered. If
you have a diverse card range
with some strong yellows, make
sure this card is in your deck.
It's perhaps the "ultimate" card
(a special note about this is
noted in section 4).

077: Carbuncle: Holy Guard:
Attack: * Defense: * Special:
****** Rating: 0% Notes: While
the heal is great, the chances
of being attacked in one
specific spot is so luck-based
that I won't touch this card at
all.

078: Carbuncle: Blessed Song:
Attack: ** Defense: ** Special:
**** Rating: 5% Notes: I rarely
use this card. It's a nice way
to disrupt your enemy, however
it is designed to be used at the
start of the battle, which
severely limits it. By the time
this card can really make a
difference, there are other
cards that can CP crush with
stronger attacks/defense.

079: Ramuh: Shock: Attack: ***
Defense: ** Special: * Rating:
5% Notes: I rarely use this
card. I find that blue CP is one
of the least used CPs in the
game, so the card isn't good for
an all-around deck. However, if
you're going up against a blue
deck, you'll probably want it
around.

080: Ramuh: Thundercloud:
Attack: **** Defense: ***
Special: * Rating: 75% Notes:
This card is awesome. I might go
so far as to say it is the best
card in the game that does not
require CP. It can deal 8 damage
without any CP! This card is a
winner and belongs in most
decks, including the "ultimate"
deck.

081: Ramuh: EM Field: Attack: **
Defense: *** Special: ** Rating:
0% Notes: If you want to use
this card, either take Shock or
Thundercloud. Both seem better
to me. It's luck based and has a
special I rarely use.

082: Ramuh: EM Field+: Attack: *
Defense: ****** Special: (-1)
Rating: 0% Notes: WHY??? Why
does it have to be your own CP
that's turned yellow? If it was
one's opponent's CPs instead,
this card would get like a 70%.
Too bad...

083: Ramuh: Judgment Bolt:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 20% Notes: If
I have an attack deck, this card
is normally in it (normally have
the CP due to same requirements
as Ruby Light). It's got a
defense and a strong attack.
Nice.

084: Ramuh: Judgment Bolt+:
Attack: ****** Defense: *
Special: * Rating: 30% Notes:
Again, this card is in my deck
if I'm attacking. An attack of 9
for just 3CP? I'll do it! This
is THE strongest of the simple
attack cards (non-CP-based).

085: Cait Sith: Megaphone:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
**** Rating: 40% Notes: If I'm
on the offensive or even a mixed
offense/defense strategy, you
can bet that this card will be
in the deck. It's got decent
defense, and if you attack
first, you get a shield for
basically two turns.
Furthermore, the attack isn't
too shabby. Good card.

086: Cait Sith: Battle Trumpet:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
** Rating: 10% Notes: This is a
halfway decent card. It gets
better against human opponents
(as the computer doesn't care
about numb), but it still has an
average attack and defense. Use
it if you want to, and if
Megaphone, Battle Trumpet+, and
Quickstomp are already in your
deck (both are similar but
better). Although, if you
already have those two, you may
not need this card ;).

087: Cait Sith: Battle Trumpet+:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
** Rating: 25% Notes: Nice! A
4-hitter that you can use right
off the bat! This is a rather
powerful card, but it has a
comparatively low rating for all
that it does. Why? Cause there's
so many others that are very
similar (especially Megaphone
and QuickStomp) that are just as
good, if not better. Still, it's
a good card.

088: Cait Sith: Cat Rain:
Attack: *** Defense: ***
Special: **** Rating: 65% Notes:
This will be in most of my
decks. It's a defense card,
which you already know I like.
It's got a good attack, and it
can be a VERY annoying card. I
have gotten out of several binds
with this card. Destroying the
most abundant crystals is very
powerful later in the game and
can stop an ultra-destructive
move. Use it and you won't be
disappointed (unless you have to
give up Thundercloud, which is
just a bit better).

089: Cait Sith: Marvelous Cheer:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 10% Notes:
This is a nice, well-rounded
card. It's especially powerful
later on, hitting up to 10
damage (although average is
probably about 6-7). It does
require some CP, but that
shouldn't be an issue as the
card isn't good until later on
in the battle. Still, it doesn't
have a very high rating as it's
simply mediocre. If I want this
card, I'll probably go for the +
card instead.

090: Cait Sith: Marvelous
Cheer+: Attack: ********
Defense: * Special: * Rating:
40% Notes: This is probably one
of the most discussed cards.
It's uber-powerful, especially
later in the game. It has no
defense, but it attacks
generally over 15 damage, later
on a perfect 20 attack. It has
some strong CP requirements, but
that isn't a big deal as it's a
late-game card anyways. Use it
if you want an uber-attack card
and you won't be disappointed.
In fact, one of the best
strategies is to combine this
card with a total guard deck,
letting your opponent think that
you are just going to guard and
then get an OHKO!

091: Iron Giant: Fist: Attack:
*** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 10% Notes: While it
requires a CP, this is a good
card. It's got the red defense,
which is nice. Also, with an
attack of 4, it's somewhat
strong. Use it for a nice early
to mid game attack card.
However, Overhead Smash+ is much
better.

092: Iron Giant: Tackle: Attack:
**** Defense: ****** Special: **
Rating: 75% Notes: There is only
one downside to this card, and
that's the stronger CP
requirement. However, it is even
useful at the start as a
defensive card. Once you have
the CP, this card is nearly
unstoppable. It even has a bonus
of going first next time. If you
are going to use Ruby Light/+,
be sure this card is also in
your deck.

093: Iron Giant: Beam: Attack:
**** Defense: * Special: **
Rating: 0% Notes: If you are
going to use this card, know
that there are other, better
cards. There are many yellow
attacks that have lower CP
requirements and higher defense
(like Quickstomp, Fist, or
Megaphone). It's decent, but not
good enough compared to all of
the other good yellows.

094: Iron Giant: Beam+: Attack:
*** Defense: * Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: Can someone
make sense of this card? You
need 3 yellow CP to use an
attack with ONLY your other
CP??? This makes no sense. Use
one of the Marvelous Cheers
instead, just avoid this card.

095: Iron Giant: Overhead Smash:
Attack: *** Defense: ** Special:
*** Rating: 5% Notes: This is an
okay card. I would use it more
if there weren't so many
substitutes, including the +
version. Still, it's
situationally powerful if you
find yourself constantly with
less HP than your opponents.

096: Iron Giant: Overhead
Smash+: Attack: *** Defense: **
Special: ** Rating: 20% Notes:
This is a very good card. It has
a 4 attack right from the get
go. It has a red defense, which
is nice. It also has a special.
I don't know why I don't use it
more, but I really don't use it
often. You might like it better
though as it's still a great
card.

097: Odin: Zantetsuken: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: (-1)
Rating: 0% Notes: Why? I guess
if you never use blue cards,
this card may be okay, but let's
be realistic: this card is
atrocious. Don't use it!

098: Odin: Zantetsuken+: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: (-1)
Rating: 0% Notes: Ditto for
above, but for not using green.
I have literally seen the
computer kill THEMSELVES by
playing these cards!

099: Odin: Gungnir: Attack: ***
Defense: * Special: * Rating: 0%
Notes: Okay, a card that is
based on luck, with an average
attack of 3, that has no defense
and no CP creation... WHY????
Use basically any yellow
standard attack card (i.e.
Megaphone) as a MUCH better
substitute.

100: Odin: Gungnir+: Attack: ***
Defense: * Special: **** Rating:
0% Notes: Well, the + version is
better, but that only goes to
show how bad the original is.
The special is good, but with no
defense and no CP creation, I
would pass on this one.

101: Odin: Sleipnir: Attack:
***** Defense: * Special: ***
Rating: 0% Notes: In a word,
avoid! You have to get VERY
lucky for an opponent to just
happen to attack red in order to
get this card to work. I don't
know about you, but I am not
going to risk that big of a
gamble. IF the opponent has a
strong enough red hand to have
all red cards (the ONLY time to
use this card), chances are that
he has enough red CP to make
Explode+ better, and that card
is also awful.

102: Odin: Dark Blade: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: So not every
Odin is terrible. This one has
some use, albeit small. Only use
it if you normally have high
health. Even then, with the
nasty CP requirement, I don't
recommend it. IF you do want to
use it, be sure to check
Tonberry's Knife first as the CP
requirement is a bit nicer in my
opinion. I never use it, but you
may have a bit better luck (but
don't count on it).

103: Bahamut: Air Strike:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Well, it has
a nice, no CP attack. However,
it has no defense, nor does it
generate CP. Thus, while it's
not all that bad, I don't use
it. If I was strictly offense
though... I might use it.

104: Bahamut: Mega Flare:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
* Rating: 0% Notes: Well, it has
a nice, no CP attack. However,
it has no defense, nor does it
generate CP. Thus, while it's
not all that bad, I don't use
it. If I was strictly offense
though... I might use it. (Same
as Air Strike, just red, not
green.)

105: Bahamut: Mega Flare+:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
** Rating: 0% Notes: Well, it
has a nice, no CP attack.
However, it has no defense, nor
does it generate CP. Thus, while
it's not all that bad, I don't
use it. If I was strictly
offense though... I might use
it. Also, it's the best of the
trio (see above two) as it at
least has some special (numb).

106: Bahamut: Tera Flare:
Attack: ***** Defense: **
Special: * Rating: 5% Notes: I
would use this more if it gave
CP. It's actually rather decent,
dishing out an average of 8
attack or more. I am just a
total color-user. In an attack
hand though, you may get
surprised by it, as it is a
rather hefty card with at least
a little defense.

107: Bahamut: Tera Flare+:
Attack: ******* Defense: *
Special: * Rating: 10% Notes:
This card might be able to be
used in the most lethal attack
period (section 4). It dishes
out major CP- based damage. The
downside is that it has no
defense and has several cards in
direct competition with it (such
as Marvelous Cheer+).

108: Bahamut: Impulse: Attack:
*** Defense: *** Special: **
Rating: 15% Notes: Say hi to
perhaps my most used gray card.
It's a guard card, which I like.
Unfortunately, blue and green
are among the most guarded
locations. Still, if you are up
against an opponent who likes
blue & green, this may be a
handy card to have ready.

109: Tonberry: Poison Cloud:
Attack: *** Defense: ***
Special: ** Rating: 10% Notes:
Actually, this one is probably
more useful than Impulse
(above), with basically the same
setup, just with yellow/green
guard instead (which there are
fewer cards of). However, I
simply do not like Tonberry, so
I rarely use it :P.

110: Tonberry: Shadowbind:
Attack: **** Defense: **
Special: *** Rating: 5% Notes:
This isn't a bad card, but
above-average doesn't normally
cut it in my decks. It's got
some power though, with a 5
attack and a small defense. I
should put it in more decks, but
again I don't like Tonberry.

111: Tonberry: Knife: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 5% Notes: Well, if you
have good HP, I guess this card
might be useful. Problem is that
the CP requirement puts it at a
mid or late game card, and by
then, HP is generally not at max
if you're in a tough battle. Use
it if it's your style; that's
all.

112: Tonberry: Karma: Attack:
***** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: Until your
health is at 7 or less, this
card is pointless. And, after
your health is that low, healing
is probably the bigger priority
than attacking. This is too
situational (in a bad way) for
it to make it into a single
deck.

113: Tonberry: Karma+: Attack:
****** Defense: ** Special: *
Rating: 0% Notes: Welcome to
perhaps the most worthless card
in the game. Who really wants to
get hit down to 3 or less to use
a card that only gives 10
damage? Not me. Yes, 10 is a
lot, but this is pathetic. Don't
even bother with it unless you
want dead weight in your deck.

114: Goblin: Slap: Attack: **
Defense: ** Special: * Rating:
0% Notes: Did you really think a
starter card would be worth
anything? I guess that is true
in some games, but certainly not
this one.

115: Goblin: Slap+: Attack: ****
Defense: * Special: * Rating: 0%
Notes: This has mild uses,
getting 5 attack with no CP
requirement, but I don't want it
in my decks.

116: Goblin: Rage: Attack: *
Defense: *** Special: * Rating:
0% Notes: Tons of better cards;
don't bother with this starter
either.

117: Goblin: Shout: Attack: **
Defense: ** Special: * Rating:
0% Notes: The last starter card
is the best, but it's still not
worth much.

118: Goblin: Meteor: Attack:
**** Defense: ** Special: **
Rating: 0% Notes: If you have
all that CP, use it on a bomb
card, not this one (unless you
really want to, I guess it's not
atrocious...).

119: Typhon: Fireball: Attack:
**** Defense: * Special: **
Rating: 10% Notes: Basically, if
you have a hand with a lot of
red cards, this might be a good
card. Else, avoid.

120: Typhon: Chow Time: Attack:
**** Defense: * Special: **
Rating: 10% Notes: Basically, if
you have a hand with a lot of
green cards, this might be a
good card. Else, avoid.

121: Typhon: Snort: Attack: ****
Defense: * Special: ** Rating:
10% Notes: Basically, if you
have a hand with a lot of blue
cards, this might be a good
card. Else, avoid.

122: Typhon: Chow Body Splash:
Attack: **** Defense: * Special:
** Rating: 10% Notes: Basically,
if you have a hand with a lot of
yellow cards, this might be a
good card. Else, avoid.

================================

-----------------------
4. Miscellaneous & FAQs
-----------------------

The "Ultimate" Teams:

These are the two teams that I
have developed that have taken
on all of the bosses in the game
with little to no problems. In
fact, with these teams, I have
been known to end a battle with
full HP. They are my most-
recommended teams to use. If you
don't want to use them, that's
fine, but you still may want to
review them to see why I
consider them good for the
building of your own team. Also,
if you have an ultimate team,
please let me know what the team
is AND why you think it's an
ultimate team.

ULTIMATE TEAM 1: 015: Lamia:
Maiden's Kiss 018: Lamia:
Entice+ 022: Phoenix: Undying
Spirit+ 026: Adamantoise: Turtle
Power+ 027: Adamantoise:
Miraculous Shell 034: Cactuar:
Photosynthesis 062: Mist Dragon:
Billowing Mist 065: Mist Dragon:
Ice Bind 067: Bismarck: No Mercy
073: Carbuncle: Shining Star
075: Carbuncle: Ruby Light 076:
Carbuncle: Ruby Light+ 080:
Ramuh: Thundercloud 088: Cait
Sith: Cat Rain 092: Iron Giant:
Tackle

Strengths: >Well-balanced color
choices for maximizing Ruby
Light+ >Lot's of healers (2 red,
1 green, 1 blue) >Mixture of
attack and guard cards >Well-
adaptable to any situation

Weaknesses: >2 healers are weak
with the wide color distribution
(Undying Spirit+ and Billowing
Mist) >Attack cards can be
countered if not careful >Weaker
vs. a strong yellow or strong
red deck >Explode+ is
devastating to the main strategy

Main Strategy: Your goal is to
simply survive the first five or
so turns with minimal damage.
You won't be dishing out all
that much either. However, later
when your CP gauge is getting
filled, you can unleash some
decent attack. Try to time it so
Ruby Light+ is used right at the
best moment. Heal if at 15 or
less (later in the game means
that uber-powerful cards are
coming into play). Beware of
Explode+ if it is in your
opponent's deck. However, that's
a sweet card to use Ruby Light+
on ;). Win by survival, then by
attrition (slowly wearing down
your opponent).


ULTIMATE TEAM 2: 008: Bomb:
Delta Guard 018: Lamia: Entice+
025: Adamantoise: Turtle Power
026: Adamantoise: Turtle Power+
027: Adamantoise: Miraculous
Shell 034: Cactuar:
Photosynthesis 062: Mist Dragon:
Billowing Mist 065: Mist Dragon:
Ice Bind 066: Mist Dragon: Ice
Bind+ 067: Bismarck: No Mercy
075: Carbuncle: Ruby Light 076:
Carbuncle: Ruby Light+ 080:
Ramuh: Thundercloud 088: Cait
Sith: Cat Rain 092: Iron Giant:
Tackle

Strengths: >Colors more uneven
to maximize attacks that need
more CP >All are guard cards, so
no worrying about counterattacks
>2 Healers, both potent and
easier to reach (than team 1)
>Ultra versatile, with the
widest range of defense areas

Weaknesses: >Some cards are just
fillers that don't do much
(besides save you when you're in
a bind) >Weaker vs. strong red
hand or an evenly-distributed
hand

Main Strategy: As this is my
second deck, I built it off of
lessons learned from the first
deck (why there are fewer
weaknesses). You no longer have
a survival period at the start.
There are enough low or no CP
required cards that allow you to
get right in from the get-go.
And, that is balanced by a few
more-powerful end cards (such as
Ruby Light+). My complaint is
against cards like Delta Guard
and Turtle Power, but I wouldn't
get rid of either as they have
both saved me in several
situations. This is also an
"easy" deck to use, with the not
worrying about counters.
Finally, it's a great annoyance
to your opponent after you get
ten or more counters in a row!
Keep calm and heal whenever you
need to. Use your incredible
counter ability to learn your
opponent's cards to plan
accordingly. In fact, the longer
the duel goes, the better your
chances to win are. Not
recommended for those who like
quick duels (although they still
are somewhat fast with the no
initial survival time). Time
Ruby Light+ right to really get
an edge over your competition.



CARDS NOT TO BE WITHOUT: There
are some cards that should be in
just about every deck. Here is a
list of those that are simply
the best of the best:

026: Adamantoise: Turtle Power+:
Don't let the rareness of
attacking get you down. Even if
you're an offensive player,
still considering having it in
your deck, especially if your
opponent has a gray card or two.
It can really be a lifesaver.

067: Bismarck: No Mercy: Just
because this card has a low
attack does not mean it should
be passed up. It has no CP
requirement and is almost
guaranteed to attack for 2
damage. It even has a CP crush
attached to it.

075: Carbuncle: Ruby Light: This
card is great. While the
strength depends on your
opponent's card, even if you
guess wrong, it's great to have
in your hand. It will force your
opponent to think twice about
every move he makes. And, it has
a rather low CP requirement.

080: Ramuh: Thundercloud: You
may glance over this card the
first time through. I know I
did. However, you simply cannot
top a 4-attack with a possible
8-attack with NO CP requirement.
One of the best things to watch
is an opponent trying to be
sneaky with Thunder Storm and
seeing him get 8 damage for his
troubles!

092: Iron Giant: Tackle: This is
the one that almost doesn't make
the cut. It's an amazing card,
but it does have a triple CP
requirement. However, if you
have the CP, you have a near-
guaranteed 5 damage (which is
generally better than Ruby
Light).


Honorable Mentions:

012: Bomb: Explode+: IF you can
manage 5 red CP, this card is
hard to top. Destroying all of
your opponent's CP is simply
devastating to most strategies
(many of mine included). And,
you get a great 8 damage to top
it off with.

027: Adamantoise: Miraculous
Shell: It's got some CP
requirement, but if you have the
CP, this card is an almost
guaranteed 3 damage, making
rather nice.

029: Adamantoise: Slowspell:
Tough to be hit back when using
this card. No CP requirement. 3
damage. Gives your opponent
slow. Sounds like a good
combination to me!

034: Cactuar: Photosynthesis: If
you have been reading, you know
how against I am about cards
based on luck. This one is based
on your opponent having yellow
CP. However, with how strong
yellow is, I don't see many
teams without at least some
yellow. So, if you can get the
CP required, then heal up with
perhaps the best healer in the
game.

046: Titan: Earthen Fist+: This
card gives you 7 attack with a
comparatively low CP requirement
and a defense space.

059: Leviathan: Tidal Wave:
Somewhat low on the damage side,
but this card can defend and
defend well. Further, it can
have up to a 10 attack, although
more commonly about 4-5.

074: Carbuncle: Quickstomp: This
is a great first card, with 4
damage right from the start, as
well as moving first on the next
turn. They even threw in a
defense space for fun.

076: Carbuncle: Ruby Light+:
Before I get any emails, let me
explain. This card has an insane
CP requirement; thus, it is not
for everyone. However, IF you
can get the CP, this is one of
the absolute best cards in the
game.

084: Ramuh: Judgment Bolt+: If
you want power, take a look.
This is a guaranteed 9 damage,
the highest guaranteed damage in
the game (minus Karma+, but
don't even go there). Just watch
out for a Ruby Light/+ shooting
it back at you ;).

085: Cait Sith: Megaphone: If
you see it (especially on your
first turn), just throw it up.
Then, you go first and basically
get protect for two turns.
Further, it will deal out 3
damage to your opponent.

087: Cait Sith: Marvelous
Cheer+: Ah, I cannot ignore this
card. Only once have I been
OHKO'd when I had full health,
but it's enough to remember the
card that did it. Again, beware
of Ruby Light/+.



Maximum Damage: There are two
main strategies to maximize
damage. One is actually possible
in a random game. The other
takes a setup (and has not been
tested to see if it does work).

80 Damage: This one can actually
happen in a game without being
setup (although it takes some
luck). First, you have to numb
your opponent (for example, use
Battle Trumpet). The next turn,
your opponent uses Marvelous
Cheer+ (with a full CP gauge)
and you use Ruby Light+. He hits
you for (probably) 20 damage
(depends on your CP), but
Carbuncle grabs it and hurls
back 40 (cause he has a full CP
and Ruby Light+ doubles damage).
However, because he is numb, the
yellow attack does double
damage, that's double of the 40,
meaning that you just hit him
for 80 damage! (Note that this
is still untested, but I am
rather sure it works)

120 Damage: Jaw dropped? Yes, I
think it is possible to reach
120 damage. However, you need a
friend to do it. This probably
won't happen in a normal game,
unless you are against a
strictly red, yellow, and gray
player (which there are a few
rare ones, maybe). Again, the
first turn you numb him (like a
Battle Trumpet). On the next
turn, your opponent (with a full
CP gauge of red & yellow only)
fires off Tera Flare+ (Bahamut,
#107). You use a Ruby Light+,
doubling the power and sending
it back. However, this is based
on your opponent's CP, which is
all red & yellow. And, with 3
attack per red/yellow CP, that's
30 damage. Doubled is 60 damage.
And, because this is a yellow
attack and he is numb, the
attack is doubled again, hitting
at a whopping 120 damage! (only
problem would be if numb needs
to be yellow card & attack, but
I think it's just the attack)

================================

------------------
5. Contact & Legal
------------------

CONTACT: Name: The Ambassador
(or) just4yoshi Email:
ambassador@wideopenwest.com

Please do not send any type of
vulgarity, spam, etc. Keep the
emails clean please. Thank you.

My Other Guides:Mario Tennis:
Power Tour Monopoly Tycoon
Galactic Civilizations Cossacks
1 Gallop Racer 2004


LEGAL: The ONLY sites to use
this guide are gamespot.com,
gamefaqs.com, www.mogelgott.de,
and supercheats.com . If you see
this guide on any other site,
please notify me.
