 _______________________________
|                           Fina
|                            DS 
|                              1
| Not-Even-Pretending-to-be-
Spoiler-Free Guide by
Moogle_Warrior |
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
________
Contents\_______________________
To find something specific, use
CTRL+F and paste in the shortcut
(with brackets)
    0. Introduction [INTR]
    1. Version History [VERS]
    2. Characters [CHAR]
    3. Begginer's Guide [GAME]
  a. Battle [BATL]
  b. Magic System [MSYS]
  c. Job System [JSYS]
  d. Mognet [MAYL]
    4. Walkthrough [FIII]
    5. Extras [EXTR]
    6. Frequently Asked
       Questions [IFAQ]
    7. Contact Me [KUPO]
    8. Legal Stuff [LEGL]
    9. Thanks [TTFN]
___________________
[INTR] Introduction\____________

Myself:

Hello, my name, for all intents
and purposes, is Moogle_Warrior.
This is my second guide for
GameFAQs. My other guide is for
Tales of Phantasia, which is on
hiatus due to a tragedy. My
narrations through the guide are
split into paragraphs by step,
so you don't need to scan
through a huge paragraph to find
where you're stuck. I also add a
crapload of commentary, which
apparently makes for an
interesting read. Just don't
read ahead, as spoilers are
often the best way to explain
where to go next.

Everything you wanted to know
but were afraid to ask about
Final Fantasy III:

Final Fantasy III. It would be
no exaggeration to say that the
series would be nowhere without
it. Just about every basic
element of other FF games comes
from FFIII. It also wasn't until
1990, the year FFIII was
released in Japan, that Square
had the funds to export one of
it's best-sellers, Final
Fantasy. Final Fantasy II was
also being translated for a
later release. Then the Super
Famicom happened, launching
Nintendo into the realm of
16-bit. Final Fantasy II and
possibly III were cancelled in
the US and FFIV was released
instead, as, ironically, Final
Fantasy II. The fifth
installment in the quickly
growing series was also never
released stateside, but the
sixth was released as Final
Fantasy III a few years later.
By the time they reached the
seventh, Square decided to redo
the numbering and release Final
Fantasy VII as... Final Fantasy
VII.

There is a point to this tale.

Suddenly, there was a huge hole
in a series many gamers had
grown up with. As a solution,
when Final Fantasy I and II were
remade for the WonderSwan Color,
an abysmal failure of a handheld
that never had much popularity.
Those versions were ported to
Sony's new PlayStation as a
compilation called Final Fantasy
Origins, which was released in
the US with proper titles. A
little while before, IV, V, and
VI were re-released on
compilation discs as well, but
only as ports of the original
SFC versions. If you know how to
count, you'll see the gap.

Final Fantasy III, being the
power-hungry beast that it is,
was too difficult to port
without a complete reprogram,
due to coding that only ran on
the Famicom. The WonderSwan port
was abandoned, so the possible
PSX port also died before
conception. The end result was
that FFIII was never going to be
ported to a new system, which
wasn't a problem in Japan, it
was a beloved classic.

2004, Nintendo announces the DS,
it's latest handheld. The now
merged Square-Enix jumps on the
bandwagon and announces Final
Fantasy III. No more news until
2005, when the development
progress is slowly revealed,
full 3D, not sprite based. Fans
go wild. "Finally! Kefka in 3D!"
More news. The original FFIII,
not FFVI which was released as
FFIII the first time. It is
revealed to be a complete
reprogram, with extra storyline
elements and four hero
characters with distinct
personalities. Time passes
slowly as fans anticipate a
release...

2006, August 24, released in
Japan. The entire country stops
and runs to the nearest game
store.

2006, November 14, released in
the US. Reviewers expect the
Hope Diamond but get a different
kind of gem. Sucks to be them.
You, however, assuming you
actually have the game now, are
in for one of the greatest RPGs
of all time.
______________________
[VERS] Version History\_________

In the next release:
-Boss stats
-Formatting adjustments (for
 compatibility)

4/19/07 1.1 Full Walkthrough+ -
It's been put off long enough
-Minor ammendments to some
 sections (esp. the FAQ)
-A few more typos fixed (I'll
 never catch 'em all...)
-Sunken Cave optional level
 walkthrough added
-Troll Tales Episode 2 added to
 the Contact Me section
-Game Systems section replaced
 with Begginer's Guide

1/6/07 1.0 Full Walkthrough -
Happy New Year
-Main Guide complete
-Minor section updates
-FC-DS changes guide complete
 (as far as I know)
-ALL TYPOS CORRECTED
This marks the completion of the
guide.

11/26/06 0.75 Release two-and-a-
half
-Sections revised slightly with
 new info (I've gotten many
 e-mails)
-No progress on the guide,
 yet...
-Extra rules added to the
 "Contact Me" section

11/23/06 0.7 Second Release -
Happy Thanksgiving
-Minor text clean-up in the
 Prologue
-Complete guide up until the
 Cave of the Circle
-More Characters added
-Partial Job descriptions and
 reviews
-Most Shops have been listed
-FC to DS changes section added,
 still in progress
-Minor corrections to the above
 history

11/18/06 0.1 Initial Release
-Basic formatting
-Complete Prologue guide
-Partial character list
_________________
[CHAR] Characters\______________

The Heroes: Descriptions are
from the manual.

Luneth: An orphan raised by Nina
and Elder Topapa in the village
of Ur. Adventurous by nature,
his curiosity gets the better of
him as he tumbles into a hole
created by the great
earthquake...

Arc: Another orphan raised by
Topapa and Luneth's best friend.
Unlike Luneth, he prefers
reading over gamboling in the
wild. His studies endow him with
great knowledge that more than
makes up for his shyness.

Refia: Raised in Kazus by the
mythril smith Takka, whose
rigorous training led her to run
away from home...again.

Ingus: A loyal soldier of King
Sasune's army, he narrowly
escaped the Djinn's curse. His
primary concern is finding the
missing Princess Sara.

Additional Party Members:

Sara: The princess of Sasune,
the small kingdom Ur is in.
Abilities: Casts Cure Casts Aero

Cid: A maker of Airships, friend
to King Argus Abilities: Casts
Fire Attacks

Desch: An adventurer who travels
the continent. He can only
remember his name. Abilities:
Casts Thundara Attacks

Aria: A priestess of the Temple
of Water Abilities: Casts
Protect Casts Cura

Alus: The ten-year-old prince of
Saronia Abilities: Casts Aero
Casts Confuse

Doga:
One of Noah's three apprentices
Abilities:
Casts Flare
Casts Firaga

Unei: An apprentice of Noah,
master of the land of dream
Casts Haste Casts Holy
________________________
[GAME] Begginner's Guide\_______

Battle System_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [BATL] Final Fantasy
III has the most straightforward
battle system in RPG history.
Your party stands at one end,
the monsters at the other, and
each participant's
speeddetermines the turn order.
Unlike Square's later turn-based
game, Treasure of the Rudras,
there is no indicator of turn
order, so you just have to
guess.

Boss AI: They have a new (or
perhaps old) trick in the
remake, multiple attacks per
turn. These can be either a
physical attack and a spell, a
special attack and a spell, or
two physical attacks. They
cannot use a special attack or
magic twice per round. If they
could, the game would be nearly
impossible. (See section The
Final Battle)

DS Version Tweaks:
 - Less monsters. The original
   version had a max enemy party
   size of 9, while on
   the DS it's only 3 (except
   for 1 plot event)
 - Stylus Targetting. The stylus
   can be used to pick options
   from the command
   list, then select the enemy
   you want to target. You can
   also drag to draw a selection
   box around the multiple
   enemies you want to target
   (with spells).
 - Enemies can target someone
   who was revived that round of
   combat (i.e. using a
   Phoenix Down on Arc only to
   have an enemy attack and kill
   him again right after).

Magic System_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[MSYS] Final Fantasy
III uses an archaic magic system
that debuted in the original
Final Fantasy. Rather than
having a single stat for MP
(like every other RPG in the
history of gaming, except D&D)
each magic-uysing character has
one MP value for each spell
level. This means that even
running of castings of Cure, you
can still cast Thunder because
it's at a different spell level.
Note that a higher spell level
does not always mean that a
spell is stronger.

Magic Types:
    -White Magic has mostly
     spells for healing and
     restoring status, with a
     bare
 minimum of attack spells.
    -Black Magic has mostly
     spells for attacking, with
     a few for changing enemy
 status.
    -Summon Magic has different
     effects based on the
     caster. They can be similar
 to spells from the other two
 types.

For a character to use a
specific spell, they must have
both the ability to cast that
magic type and at least one MP
for the spell's level.

Job System_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[JSYS] Final Fantasy
III allows you to change the Job
of your characters, a system
that has been ripped off in many
RPGs since. Jobs change the
abilities and stats of each
character.

A Balanced Party: Ideally, a
party should consist of two
fighters and two mages. The Red
Mage class counts as both.
Basically, you always need
someone who can cast White Magic
and someone who can cast Black
Magic.

Job Levels: From what I can
tell, Jobs gain levels based on
the number of battles they're
used in. The number of battles
needed goes up with each level,
and the slower a Job develops,
the longer it can take for it to
level up. The earliest Jobs
level up the fastest, while
later Jobs can take a while to
level up.

The Jobs: Recommended jobs are
starred (*).

Default:
Freelancer
   Pros: Equip most everything
  Basic L.1 Magic
   Cons: Low MP The Freelancer
   class is what you start out
   with, and it's not that
   great. The Red Mage class
   does everything it can and
   more, and gets more MP.

First Set (Wind Crystal):
Warrior
   Pros: High attack/defense
   Cons: No exclusive
   weapons/armor Since fighter
   classes aren't supposed to
   have magic, there really
   isn't a downside to this
   class, except that weapons
   and armor after a point are
   exclusive to specific
   classes, and Warrior isn't
   one of them.
Monk
   Pros: No weapons necessary
   High damage from back row
   Cons: Pitiful
   defense/m-defense The Monk is
   what I call a back row
   fighter. It can deal as much,
   if not more, damage from the
   back row than the Warrior or
   Red Mage can do in the front.
   Magic defense, however, is
   this Job's weak point. A high
   level spell means death to
   Monks.
*White Mage
   Pros: High MP
   Cons: Low defense
  Weak attack (compared to
  warrior, anyway)
   The White Mage heals. That's
   about it. They can't do very
   much damage from either row,
   and White Magic is only good
   when someone needs healing,
   as status attacks don't work
   all that often. The healing
   alone, combined with high MP
   for seven levels of magic
   makes the White Mage a
   necessity for most of the
   game. The spell Aero is the
   White Mage's only offensive
   spell, but it is only useful
   against flying monsters. You
   can use healing spells on
   undead enemies, but why use
   Cure to attack when it can
   save your skin in a boss
   fight?
Black Mage
   Pros: High MP Cons: Low
   defense/attack The black mage
   can do lots of damage. Lots.
   If you know exactly what to
   hit an enemy with, it's gone.
   Only problem is, the Black
   Mage's defense makes it hard
   sometimes to last long enough
   to cast that crucial spell.
*Red Mage
   Pros: Extremely similar to
   Warrior
  5 levels of White and Black
  Magic
   Cons: Low MP
  Few exclusive items
   The Red Mage, starting out,
   is a viable alternative to
   the Black Mage. It can do
   everything a Mage does
   without the defense risk, and
   you wont get level 6 spells
   until much later in the game,
   anyway. After a point,
   though, the Red Mage stops
   getting armor upgrades, so
   you may want to change. I
   still have a Red Mage in my
   party, however.
Thief
   Pros: Steal items
Unlock doors without Magic Keys
   Cons: Low attack and defense
   From Michael Gilliam: While
   the thief seems to be a weak
   class their advantage is
   their agility. I used the
   thief until Job Class Level
   99 and often it was him that
   saved my butt in a boss
   battle. While the other
   classes were averaging 14-18
   hits, the thief was getting
   30-34 hits and was doing
   almost twice the damage. He
   is disadvantaged by his lack
   of armor choices, but by the
   time it becomes a problem
   there are boomerangs
   available that let you move
   him to the back for a defense
   bonus. NOTE: The Thief
   character has to be leading
   the party (that's slot one)
   for
  the unlocking ability to work.
  For details, see the game
  manual.

Second Set (Fire Crystal):
*Knight
   Pros: Upgrade of Warrior
  L1 White Magic
  Exclusive armor
  Takes damage for allies
   Cons: Takes damage for allies
   The knight is like a Warrior,
   but with White Magic and a
   desperate need to leap into
   harm's way. It gets an
   exclusive set of armor, but
   better Fighter classes come
   along later. This Job becomes
   much more useful later on,
   when the best weapons are all
   Swords, and the Armor can
   greatly reduce damage he
   takes when Defending someone
   else.
Scholar
   Pros: Scan enemies
  L3 White/Black Magic
  Double item damage
   Cons: Low attack/defense
  Very low MP
   The Scholar is necessary for
   one part of the game, but
   afterwards is fairly useless.
   It can double the damage from
   Attack Items, but you don't
   get too many of those,
   anyway.
Geomancer
   Pros: Terrain command
  High-ish attack
   Cons: Pitiful defense Another
   high-damage, low defense
   class, like the Monk. The
   Geomancer has the Terrain
   command, though which can
   deal lots of damage without
   failing. The only downside to
   Terrain is that the instant
   death effects often fail, and
   low defense makes it hard to
   get out attacks against
   bosses.
Ranger
   Pros: Ranged attack (same
   damage from front/back) Cons:
   Needs ammo to attack I never
   used the Ranger. There are
   better classes out there, and
   you only have four party
   members.

Third Set (Water Crystal):
Viking
   Pros: Highest defense
  Exclusive armor
   Cons: Slow development I
   never used the Viking,
   either. You only should have
   two fighters to have a
   balanced party, and the two
   better fighters are listed
   below.
*Dragoon
   Pros: High attack/defense
  Exclusive (and really good)
  armor/weapons
   Equip highest-level armor
  Jump command makes user
  untargetable by enemies
   Cons: Jump command makes user
   untargetable by allies The
   Dragoon is awesome, and also
   mandatory for one boss. It
   can attack hard and fast
   without Jump, and Jump can do
   major damage without the user
   getting hit by enemies. The
   flipside is that a severely
   wounded Dragoon can't be
   healed while Jumping.
*Dark Knight
   Pros: High attack/defense
  Exclusive weapons/armor
  (exclusive village, really...)
  Do MAJOR damage to all enemies
  with Souleater
   Cons: Souleater costs HP
  Souleater is slow
   The Dark Knight can do all
   sorts of damage with
   Souleater, which can often
   kill enemies in one hit if
   your Job level is high
   enough. The only downside is
   that doing so costs about 100
   HP, which can leave it
   vulnerable. Give it a Blood
   Sword, though, and it can
   attack and recover the lost
   health.
Evoker
   Pros: Summon spells
  Same MP for L2-L5
   Cons: Low attack/defense
  Summons (except Titan) can do
  stupid things
   Summons can do either major
   damage or a lame status
   effect that often fails.
   Other than the coin flipping
   aspect, the Evoker is
   definitely a back-row Job,
   seeing as its stats are no
   better than any other spell
   caster.
Bard
   Pros: Status attacks Cons:
   Low attack/defense From
   Stephen Matthews: The Bard
   isn't terribly handy, in all
   honesty. Its job is really to
   support your party with the
   melodies that vary by what
   harp you have, but all of
   those are overshadowed by the
   supportive magic of an
   experienced White Mage. Its
   attack power is negligible
   (even though it's ranged),
   and there's no variation of
   Attack Power between the
   harps. Unless you want to max
   out every job level, I'd
   avoid this one.

Fourth Set (Earth Crystal):
Black Belt
  Pros: Huge attack combo
  Cons: Low defense
	  Lousy armor
  I tried having a Black Belt
  briefly, but then I realized
  that I had no fighter capable
  of equipping Crystal Mail,
  which is rather important as
  it's the ultimate armor.
*Devout
  Pros: Funky (but high) MP
  Nekomimi! Cons: Punching bag
  The Devout is the upgrade to
  the White Mage. It get's a
  rather unique MP curve
  compared to other mage Jobs.
  It has the most MP at spell
  level 5. This allows for many
  casts of Curaga, which is
  nice, but illogical.
Magus
Pros: Funkier MP than the Devout
  Cons: Seriously, it's a mage,
  you know the downside by now
  The Magus is the Black Mage
  upgrade. Duh. However, it has
  the same MP as the Devout,
  which makes no sense at all
  because Black Magic spell
  levels are completely
  different in terms of
  usefulness. In conclusion: the
  Summoner and Sage are better
  choices for a mage-class
  character.
*Summoner
  Pros: High Summons Cons: Low
  attack/defense The Summoner,
  contrary to its description in
  the manual, performs ONLY High
  Summons. This means Odin
  becomes useless while every
  other Summon triples its
  power.
Sage
  Pros: All Black/White Magic
  Cons: Lower MP than Devout or
  Magus (though still pretty
  high)
  Sssssslllllooooowwwwwwww......
  Really slow. The Sage can cast
  both Black and White magic,
  which makes it automatically
  better than the Devout, right?
  Wrong. The Sage is a slow
  bugger, and one of a handful
  of Jobs that recieves no
  Agility bonus. As a result,
  even the slow, slow, slow
  final boss is faster. That
  means death.
*Ninja
  Pros: Huge attack combo
	  Same weapons as Dark Knight
  Cons: Rebalanced from the
  original
Only slightly better armor than
Black Belt
  Originally, the Ninja was the
  ultimate Fighter Job, capable
  of equipping any Weapon or
  Armor, including exclusive
  throwing weapons. Not anymore.
  It does, however have the
  Throw command, which can deal
  9999 damage to any boss in the
  game with the right items.

Mognet_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[MAYL] In every town
you'll find a Moogle standing
around. What can this Moogle do
for you? Not much, unless you
have friends.

Getting Started: First off, you
need a wireless router with an
open connection available. Then,
the easy part, talk to a moogle
and select "Address Book", then
"View Friend Code". It will
connect to the WFC and register
a Friend Code for you, which it
will display. The code serves as
your address in Mognet. There is
an annoying catch to friend
codes that, while it keeps you
safe from stalkers, also makes
connecting with people you know
in real life a chore.

Sending Mail: Step 1: Register a
friend's code Step 2: Connect to
the WFC at the same time as said
friend to confirm codes Step 3:
Select "Send Mail" to "A Distant
Friend" Step 4: Write the
message, and send it Step 5:
Call them up or e-mail them to
check their Mognet inbox, which
ruins the
  point but gets them their mail
  before its deleted

Communicating with NPCs: You can
send 1 letter per hour (you
don't get to write it) and
you'll get only 1 reply until
you start using Mognet with real
people. "Use this gimmicky
system or we won't give you
Ultima Weapon!" Bastards.
Eventually, your correspondence
with NPCs will net you some
short side quests and a bonus
boss or two. You can also start
getting the Ultimate Equipment
for Jobs you've mastered.

I will never write guides for
the side quests. Tough. I also
will not give out my friend code
to strangers (meaning you,
readers, sorry), beause the
system doesn't work that way.
__________________
[FIII] Walkthrough\_____________

  Prologue: The Four Warriors As
  semble........................
  ......[PRLG]
 A. Crystal Cave................
 B. Wind Crystal................
 C. Ur..........................
 D. Kazus.......................
 E. Cid's Airship...............
 F. Castle Sasune...............
 G. Sealed Cave.................
  Chapter 1: The Journey Begins.
  ..............................
  ......[CHP1]
 A. Castle Sasune...............
 B. Kazus.......................
 C. Canaan......................
 D. Dragon's Peak...............
 E. Tozus.......................
 F. Tozus Tunnel................
 G. Vikings' Cove...............
 H. Nepto Temple................
   Chapter 2: Desch's Destiny...
   .............................
   .......[CHP2]
 A. Vikings' Cove...............
 B. Tokkul......................
 C. Village of the Ancients.....
 ...............................
 .[CTRA]
 D. Living Woods................
 E. Castle Argus................
 F. Gulgan Gulch................
 G. Tower of Owen...............
   Chapter 3: The Crystal of Fir
   e............................
   .......[CHP3]
 A. Gysahl......................
 B. Dwarven Hollows.............
 ...............................
 .[LALI] C. Subterranean Lake...
 ...............................
 .........[LOCH] D. Dwarven Holl
 ows............................
 .................[HOHO]
 E. Molten Cave.................
 F. Fire Crystal................
   Chapter 4: The Tyrant and the
   Tree.........................
   ......[CHP4]
 A. Dwarven Hollows.............
 ...............................
 .[LAHO]
 B. Castle Hein.................
 C. Castle Argus................
 D. Canaan......................
   Chapter 5: The Outside World.
   .............................
   .......[CHP5]
 A. Wrecked Ship................
 B. Temple of Water.............
 ...............................
 .[KRBY]
 C. Cave of Tides...............
 D. Water Crystal...............
   Chapter 6: The Man in Gold...
   .............................
   .......[CHP6]
 A. Amur........................
 B. Sewers......................
 C. Goldor Manor................
   Chapter 7: Siege From Within.
   .............................
   .......[CHP7]
 A. Duster......................
 B. Saronia.....................
 C. Dragon Spire................
 D. Saronia.....................
   Chapter 8: The Apprentices of
   Noah.........................
   ......[CHP8]
 A. Replito.....................
 B. Doga's Manor................
 C. Cave of the Circle..........
 ...............................
 .[TINY]
 D. Temple of Time..............
 E. Unei's Shrine...............
 F. Ancient Ruins...............
 G. Falgabard...................
 H. Cave of Shadows.............
 ...............................
 .[DARK]
 I. Doga's Grotto...............
   Chapter 9: Eureka, The
   Forbidden Land...............
   .............[CHP9]
 A. Earth Crystal...............
 B. Ancient's Maze..............
 C. Eureka, The Forbidden Land..
 ...............................
 .[ERKA]
   Chapter 10: This is the Last 
   Battle.......................
   .......[CHP0]
 A. Crystal Tower...............
 B. World of Darkness...........
 ...............................
 .[YAMI]
 C. Final Battle................
 D. Epilogue....................
   Master Summons (and more!)...
   .............................
   .......[SIDE]
 A. Odin, the Sealed Knight.....
 ...............................
 .[ODIN] B. Leviathan, the Sea K
 ing............................
 .........[LVIA] C. Bahamut,
 King of Dragons................
 ....................[BHAM]
 D. Sunken Cave.................

        _______________
________________________________
  The Four Warriors Assemble|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Crystal Cave_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[STRT] This is an
extremely linear level, but
whatever.

Immediately after hitting New
Game, Luneth will plummet
straight down onto the lower
screen. You'll be prompted to
enter his name. Afterwards,
he'll run forward and be
attacked by Goblins. This is a
basic battle, you can just
attack them and they'll die.

Move up and snag the two chests
on either side. Continue upward
and Luneth will spot a strange
rock. Yeah, it's strange, it's
sparkling... Press A on it and
it'll remove the right wall.
Continue through and snag the
Longsword in the chest. Then
head through the door.

Once again, there is a chest to
each side. One has a potion and
the other has an Antarctic Wind,
save it for later. Move up and
take the right fork first.
You'll find an odd-colored
spring. What to do: drink it!
Note: please do not drink funny-
colored water in reality, you'll
get Hepatitis or something.

Now go back and head left. Go
through the door to the next
area.

Wind Crystal_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[WIND] All you can do
is move up. You'll be ambushed
by an evil creature; Boss time!

Boss: Land Turtle
My Level: 2
Rewards: 500 gil
  20 exp
All you can do here is attack
and heal when you hit critical.
You should only need 1 potion.

After you beat it, Text will
start appearing on the upper
screen. Luneth will, of course,
look up to read it. Oy. He'll
turn around and figure out the
Crystal's talking to him. After
some talk about darkness and
equilibrium, he'll be told to
find the others who share his
destiny. He'll then be warped
out of the level.

Dazed and confused, you'll find
yourself to the world map. SAVE!
Head south and enter the
village.

Ur_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[BABL] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Dagger 60 Leather Armor 90
  Longsword 100 Leather Shield
  40 Staff 40 Leather Cap 15 Bow
  100 Bronze Bracers 80 Wooden
  Arrow 4

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Poisona 100 Eyedrops
  40 Antidote 80

Inn price: Free

Talk to the old guy to the left.
The Elders are looking for you.
Head through the door and go
into the back room. Talk to the
old guy there. More stuff about
destiny. Now you can go outside
and explore the village.

There are a few potions in the
well, and there is a storehouse
to the north along a path with
monsters. Inside the storehouse,
yet another old guy will tell
you how to identify switches.
Use the switch he points out for
you and head up the stairs to a
bunch of chests. Loot away.

Now head back into town and take
the east path. You'll get a
scene and be able to name Arc.
Or just call him Arc like
everyone else. If you have to
change his name, call him
"Target" because even the
enemies pick on him.

The three punks will run away,
obviously in fear of Luneth's
feminine charm, er, menacing
presence... Arc will run off,
too.

Leave town and head to the town
further south.

Kazus_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [GOST] You'll meet Arc
and he'll join the party. Now
explore this strange town, just
don't enter the cave n back.
You'll die. Really quickly and
really painfully.

Talk to the people/ghosts in
town. Theyre cursed: all they
are now is an outline. The
blacksmith will say something
about his daughter, but the Inn
is where the real excitement is.

Talk to the guy by the bar.
He'll introduce himself as Cid.
Know what that means? He'll tell
you that his airship is in the
desert to the west.

Leave town and head west.

Cid's Airship_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [AIRS] Talk to the
girl by the steering wheel.
She'll introduce herself as
whatever rude name you give her,
but let's just call her Refia.
Luneth will ask her to make a
mythril ring, but little truant
girl Refia didn't study that
far. Oh well.

"Slacking off saved her from the
curse, so maybe that 'luck' will
rub off on us!"

Luneth... Anyway, grab the wheel
and prepare to start flying.
Yes, this is the earliest you
get the Airship in any Final
Fantasy game. Not like you can
do much with it, though. Fly
west and land at the castle.

Castle Sasune_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [KING] Walk up and
talk to the guard, who'll mope
on about the curse. He'll
arrange an audience with the
king. Head up and through the
doors to the king's chamber.
You'll have plenty of time to
loot later.

Run up and talk with the king,
who'll babble more about Djinn's
curse. The guard will call your
party younglings (he's not much
older...). Ingus, that's his
name, will accompany you brave
souls. Objections?

"Of course not! His sword is
with twice that of these two."

Refia's turn. Tension mounts...
The king will say something
about a hidden passage and a
skeleton...key. Now you can go
around looting. There are too
many chests to list here, so
just use the trick you learned
from that old guy in Ur (Which
old guy?...) and look for
cracked ceiling tiles, which
designate hidden passages.

The East Tower has a bow and
some arrows, and the West Tower
has enemy encounters and a
really good sword, which you'll
have to fight a tough enemy for.
You can, however, get *really*
good experience form the
monsters, so run around in
circles on the first floor for
some easy levels.

You can also head back to Ur to
equip. I'd recommend it. When
you're done, fly the airship
over the lake and enter the
cave. You should be at least
level 5.

Sealed Cave_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [JINN] Now, a real
dungeon. Start off by heading
south along the beaten path. The
south fork leads to a Potion and
the east path continues the
level. The next fork north leads
tom another Cure spell. Equip it
to whomever. Continue along and
go down the stairs.

The next area has another chest
and two skeletons. Zoom in and
hit the switch in the sparkly
pile of bones. Go through the
passageway and meet Princess
Sara, who decides to come with
you.

"No harm will come to Lady Sara
as long as I live and breathe."

Well, that settles it then. You
now have your first guest
character.

Continue down the stairs and
follow the path. The south fork
leads to another Antarctic Wind.
Continue on the linear path
until you see a red platform up
ahead. Prepare your party for a
scene and a boss.

Sara will use her ring to seal
off Djinn... Or not.

Boss: Djinn
My Level: 6
Rewards: 1400 gil
  50 exp
Start out by casting Blizzard
(if you have it) and using the
two Antarctic Winds you've been
saving. If that doesn't kill
him, his attacks (he has two per
turn) are Fire and regular
physical attacks. Heal if
necessary.

Once you beat him, Sara will
seal him in the ring and your
band of three merry men and one
woman will be warped to the
crystal.

After a brief scene about
destiny, a Moogle will come on
screen and describe the job
system. I won't tell you what
jobs to choose, for a full guide
to job changing, see the Jobs
section. ________________
________________________________
      The Journey Begins|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Walk your newly-
jobbed selves to Ur and equip
properly, then head to Sasune.

Castle Sasune_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [SARA] Sara will greet
you at the castle entrance.
You'll follow her inside and
she'll unceremoniously chuck the
ring into the spring.

After an audience with the king
youll be presented with a
canoe. And not just any old
canoe, a magical folding canoe.
Next time just leave them as
outlines. Sheesh.

Now you can go to the east tower
and fight a miniboss for a
Wightslayer, which does double
damage to undead. Only Red Mages
can equip it, though. You can
also go talk to Sara for a scene
between her and Ingus.

Despite that scene, she'll
cheerfully wave as you depart.
Then take your canoe across the
lake and retrieve your airship.
Fly it to Kazus.

Kazus_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [RFIA] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Mythril Rod 400 Mythril Armor
  350 Mythril Knife 500 Mythril
  Shield 180 Mythril Sword 500
  Mythril Helm 130 Mythril
  Gloves 120
					  Mythril Bracers	      120

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Fire 100 Eyedrops 40
  Blizzard 100 Antidote 80 Sleep
  100

Inn price: Free

Takka will be pacing at the
entrance when you arrive. He'll
drag Refia off home.

Head to the Inn for now and talk
to Cid again. He'll join the
party with the request that you
bring him home to Canaan. If you
talk to him with Y, he'll
mention that Takka can build a
ram for the airship. Go visit
Takka and Refia for a scene.

Takka will return and announce
that it's completed. Board your
airship to run into Refia,
who'll chew you out for being
late. The expression on Luneth's
face is priceless. It will be
revealed that all four heroes
are orphans. Rather, Luneth, Arc
and Refia are orphans while
Ingus "has no parents".

Fly the airship into the rock.
Boom! Walk southeast to the next
village, Canaan.

Canaan_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[CIDH]

 Weapon Store: Armor Store:
  Mythril Rod 400 Mythril Armor
  350 Mythril Knife 500 Mythril
  Shield 180 Mythril Sword 500
  Mythril Helm 130 Great Bow
  1200 Mythril Gloves 120 Iron
  Arrow 8 Mythril Bracers 120

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Cure 100 Eyedrops 40
  Thunder 700 Antidote 80 Poison
  700 Echo Herbs 100 Blind 700
  Gold Needle 100

Inn price: 40

Cid will leave the party,
telling you to find King Argus
if you want a new one.

Explore the village. Enter the
house adjoining the Inn and talk
to Salina, the girl crying on
the bed. Luneth and Refia will
decide to go to the mountain and
bring back this Desch guy.

Enter the house to the far
northwest. It's Cid's house.
He'll wish he had an Elixir for
his wife. leave and go up the
stairs at the northeast end of
town. Wade through the pond,
down the waterfall, and along
the stream to reach a chest.
Open it to receive an Elixir.
Bring it to Cid's wife. Cid'll
let you access his old hangar,
which you can loot.

After you've talked to everyone,
healed up, and equipped, head
off to Dragon's Peak. This time
I'd recommend level 9 or so,
though you're probably only
about level 7 by this point...

Dragon's Peak_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [BHAM] Make your way
up the linear path. Be wary of
the enemies here, as they can
petrify with a single hit. Be
sure to snag Aero from the chest
at the second fork. When you
reach the end, Bahamut will snag
you and plop you in his nest.

After you land, go talk to the
guy in blue. He'll introduce
himself as Desch, after first
mocking your capture. You'll
then wind up in a boss fight
against Bahamut.

Boss: Bahamut
My Level: irrelevant
Rewards: who knows?
  who cares?
RUN AWAY! USE THE FRIGGIN RUN
COMMAND! RUN! One of your party
members will get hit and most
likely get knocked out. The
escape will still be successful.

After running like the yellow
cowards you are, Desch will give
you the Mini spell. He'll also
join the party. He'll be with
you for a while. You'll all jump
off the cliff.

Once on the World Map, head into
the first forest you see. You
can heal up here, were you not
already. Talk to the gnome and
he'll tell you how to reach
Tozus. Head south and to the
southern end of the forest, then
shrink yourself and wander
around for a bit to reach Tozus.

Tozus_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [MIDG] Item Stores:
Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Fire 100 Eyedrops 40
  Blizzard 100 Antidote 80 Sleep
  100
					  Thunder               700
   Poison                700
   Blind                 700
  Gnomish Bread 150 Aero 700

Inn price: 80

The first thing you'll be
reminded of is The Minish Cap.
Tozus is tiny. Really tiny.

What you'll want to do first is
check your stats as a gnome. All
at 1 except Intellect and Mind.
What that means: you've gotta be
mages when mini. That's the only
way to survive. Equipment
doesn't matter much, your
defense is either 1 or
0.

If you haven't already, go and
buy 99 potions. You'll never use
them all, so you won't have to
buy as many in the future.

Go into the northwest house and
give an antidote to Doctor
Shelco. He'll open a path for
you. You can and should snag
Cura from a vase by the new
path. Go down when you're ready.

Tozus Tunnel_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[SMAL] Now, for the
first of many of what I call
Mini Mazes, as you must be Mini
to explore them. Hah. It's not
an affectionate term.
Fortunately, this one's fairly
short. There will be others.

Just run on through both areas.
as long as everyone has spells
you should be fine.

When you reach the world map,
don't undo Mini just yet. Just
head into the cave to reach the
Viking's Cove.

Vikings' Cove_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [VIKS] Item Store:
Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Fire 100 Eyedrops 40
  Blizzard 100 Antidote 80 Sleep
  100 Echo Herbs 100 Thunder 700
  Gold Needle 100 Poison 700
   Blind                  700
   Mini                  1000

Inn price: 40

The Vikings have a problem. It's
big and scary and goes by the
name of Nepto. As Warriors of
the Light, their problem is your
problem.

Head through the Cove and talk
with the boss. Hell offer the a
ship as a reward for defeating
the Nepto Dragon.

Take him up on his offer, head
to the world map and go north to
the Nepto Temple. You can
alternately get on the boat now
and fight Nepto, but it won't be
pretty.

Nepto Temple_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[NEPT] Enter the temple
and approach the statue. One of
the ruby eyes is missing. Go in
through the mouth.

Follow the path until you reach
a hole. Go town it and grab
Shell Armor and a Shell Helm, or
just go down the second hole.
Snag a Serpent Sword from the
chest and continue going down.

Head to the end of the hallway
and grab the eye. Or you could,
but theres a giant rat in the
way. Or is it a normal rat and
you're just tiny...

Boss: Giant Rat
My Level: 10
Rewards: 1500 gil
  300 exp
Cut loose with Level 2 magic
like Thunder and Aero. When you
run out of that, switch to Fire
and Blizzard. His attacks can
inflict poison and he can cast
Fire.

One he's beaten, you'll snag the
Nepto Eye. You'll also be fully
healed for the run out. Yes, you
have to leave manually this
time.

Put the eye where it belongs.
Nepto will thank you and give
you the Water Fang. You may now
return triumphantly to the
Vikings' Cove. UnMini your
party, too.
        ________________
________________________________
        Desch's Destiny|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Vikings' Cove_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [STRK] The Boss will
formally give you the Enterprise
as thanks. Yay. Go rest up and
restock, then head out to the
sea.

Talk to his wife, she'll name
their children after you...

Anyway, board the Enterprise and
sail around the cape, landing by
the town.

Tokkul_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[RUIN] You know what
that song means... This town has
a problem, too. Try talking to
either of those people out
front.

You'll get the same basic
response: "No! Don't eat me!" as
they flee in terror. Go through
the door. A kid will flee form
you, and his mother will beg you
to spare him. They really have
the wrong idea.

Things will get cleared up and
the townsfolk will explain their
dire plight. Head into the other
open house and speak with the
elder. You can then go into the
fire place and... loot! You
horrible person, taking what's
openly offered to you.

This town's pretty dead, so
cross the desert to the village
of the Ancients, on the edge of
the world. Yup, FFIII's so old
they still thought the world was
flat when they made it...

Village of the Ancients_ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _______
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [CTRA] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Serpent Sword 1500 Shell Armor
  1250 Fire Staff 3500 Flame
  Mail 2400 Ice Staff 3500
  Headband 1200 Light Staff 3500
  Kenpo Gi 2000 Killer Bow 4000
  Mage Robe 2000 Fire Arrow 150
  Ice Arrow 150 Light Arrow 150

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Potion 50 Sight 100 Hi-Potion
  600 Fira 1500 Gold Needle 100
  Blizzara 1500 Maiden's Kiss
  100 Thundara 1500 Echo Herbs
  150 Cura 1500 Mallet 100
  Teleport 1500 Eye Drops 40
  Blindna 1500 Antidote 80

Inn price: 120

Finally, a town that doesn't
come with its own problem.
Equipment's not bad, either. The
people here will quite cheerful
explain what the hell's been
going on. Other than that, the
place's optional.

You can take the kid up on his
offer and ride a chocobo around
the continent, but all you'll
get is a Gnomish Bread, which
doesn't do much as of yet. When
you're done with civilization,
hop on a chocobo or walk up the
path north of the desert and
enter the Living Woods.

Living Woods_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FAER] The fairies here
will talk about their cursed
tree and the wizard Hein (he's
called Hyne in FF8). They will
explain how to defeat him, but
you can't just yet.

You've done all you can here.
Board your boat and sail north
to Castle Argus.

Castle Argus_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[EMPT] Change one of
your characters to Thief class
for this area and have them
lead. The locked doors can be
easily unlocked by a Thief. All
this place is is one huge area
for you to loot. You won't be
able to equip much of it yet,
but it's still good to have.

When you're done, head northwest
by land, through the small
valley and enter the Gulgan
Gulch.

Gulgan Gulch_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[SEER] Go down the
stairs in the center and talk
with the Gulgan standing in the
middle of the ring. He'll give
you the scroll for Toad. There
are two Staves and a Mage Robe
in the back room if you don't
have them already.

Go reequip in the Village of the
Ancients if you'd like, then go
to the Tower of Owen when you're
ready. It's the tower at the end
of the northeast peninsula.

Tower of Owen_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [TOUR] The monsters
here are nasty in that "We love
status ailments" way.

Starting out, head south, west,
then north at the first fork.
Make a right and continue on
until you reach a dead end. A
scene. Now you have to turn into
Toads, so use that new spell you
got. Head forward to dive to the
next area.

Press Y for the greatest
dialogue in the game, as Toads
of course.

On the other side, unToad your
party and continue forward.
You'll be welcomed warmly, but
keep going anyway. Go up the
stairs.

On the second floor, go alaong
the walkway and to the left. Go
up the stairs to the next floor.

Just follow the path on the
third floor. What looks like a
path to treasure leads to
nothing. Go up the stairs to
floor four.

On this floor, walk forward a
ways and you'll get another
message from the beyond. On the
other side of the walkway, the
left path leads to some stairs
and the right path goes to a
chest with a Spark Dagger.

Floor five, now. Another
message. A hidden switch along
the top wall opens a path below
it. follow it and go up the
stairs.

Another floor, another linear
path. Just go up the stairs at
the end.

Floor seven! Right leads to some
chests and left goes to the way
up.

Eighth floor, still no progress.
Follow the walkway to a fork.
right goes to a chest with Sonic
Knuckles, but the Monk still
does better unarmed. Left leads
around to yet another set of
stairs.

Go up and head to the left.
Follow the path down and go
right for a Salamand Sword and
left for Flame Mail and a path
down. Follow it, snag the chest
if you want, and go up the
stairs.

Last floor, I promise. Heal up
and go forward when ready.
Medusa will say something about
tower destruction and Xande.
Boss time.

Boss: Medusa
My Level: 14
Rewards: 2600 gil
  420 exp
Cut loose with spells like Aero
and Fira. You can use some
attack items, but make sure to
keep one of each element for
later. She'll use physical
attacks, Stare, and Blizzara.
Like most bosses, she attacks
twice per turn.

After she's defeated, Desch will
remember. He'll also jump into
the furnace.
        ________________
________________________________
The Crystal of Fire| ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯ Desch's last message was to
go to the dwarves' island. Do so
after you land on your boat. It
lies to the northwest of the
tower, you'll see it on the map.
You can also visit Gysahl, an
optional village to the far east
on a small peninsula. By east, I
mean, east edge of the map east.

Gysahl_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[SHEP] Item Stores:
Magic Store:
  Gysahl Greens 150 Toad 1000
   Mini                  1000
  Magic Key 100 Break 3000
   Shade                 3000
   Libra                 3000
   Confuse               3000
   Silence               3000

Inn price: 120

The first thing that hits you
about this place: SHEEP! Another
good old-fasioned optional town,
but they sell Level 4 magic
here, as well as Gysahl Greens,
which have a nefarious purpose
you probably don't need yet, but
I'll explain it anyway:

In any chocobo forest, using
Gysahl Greens on the tree in the
center calls the Fat Chocobo
(who shows up on the game logo
in the main DS menu...) who can
compensate for your lack of
inventory space by storing items
for you. As for HOW and WHERE
the items are stored...

THere is also a man in a secret
room in the pub who will let you
view the Bestiary and your
Acievements.

Buy many Greens, get your new
spells, and head to the dwarves'
island. There are two caves,
enter the south one first.

Dwarven Hollows_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [LALI] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Tyrfing 1500 Ice Armor 2400
  Fire Staff 3500 Ice Helm 1200
  Ice Staff 3500 Ice Shield 1800
  Diamond Bell 4500 Mage Robe
  2000 Iron Arrow 8 Kenpo Gi
  2000 Fire Arrow 10

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Potion                 50     
  Hi-Potion             600
  Gold Needle           100
  Maiden's Kiss         100
  Echo Herbs            150
  Mallet                100
  Eye Drops              40
  Antidote               80

Inn price: 80

You know that song... It's
problem time. Go down the stairs
and talk with the dwarf by the
altar.Apparently, someone took
the Horn of Ice. You'll be asked
to go into the lake and get it.

Before you do anything drastic,
go inside the rooms to the north
and buy new equipment. You'll
need it.

When all's said and done, take
the west stairs down, turn into
frogs and in you go.

Subterranean Lake_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [LOCH] Enemy note:
Bombs! And they hurt, lots.

Once you're inside, unToad and
follow the path to the end. Go
through the "door" to the next
area. In the next area, just go
continue forward and go down the
stairs.

This area's fairly linear, too.
Just follow the path along the
bridges and go up the stairs
when you reach them. Be sure to
snag the chests, as a few of
them have Gold Needles.

Keep following the path until
you see a pile of gold. Heal up
and go forward to encounter
Gutsco, the rogue.

Boss: Gutsco
My Level: 15
Rewards: 3500 gil
  576 exp
Mercifully, all he starts out
with are physical attacks. Cut
loose with high level spells and
heal often. He'll Cure himself
as his health gets low, but you
do more damage than he can heal.
He'll also start casting Mini,
but you can cure that easily
enough with Mallets or Mini
again.

Arc will grab the Horn of Ice
and Gutsco will vanish. Weird.
Now you can run out or just use
teleport. You may notice an
extra shadow following you.
Curiouser and curiouser.

Dwarven Hollows_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [HOHO] Talk to the
elder, who'll drop the ward so
you can put the horn back on the
altar. Put it back, and Gutsco
will materialize and take both
horns.

Aww, now you have to get them
again. Leave the Hollows when
you're ready and enter the cave
to the north.

Molten Cave_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [MAGM] Another day,
another linear-as-hell cave
level. Follow the path until it
forks. Yes, lava constitutes a
fork in the road. You can ignore
it to reach a dead end and an
Antarctic Wind, or you can walk
across molten rock in your
travel-worn shoes. Excuse me,
wade through molten rock.

The lava hurts you by the
second, so run down and take the
right fork for an Antarctic
Wind, and the left for stairs
down to another lava pit. Joy.

Run through this pit and take
the lower path for a Freezing
Blade and the left path for a
scenic trip past a lavafall and
more forks. South leads to a Hi-
Potion (whee...), north leads to
a Phoenix Down (WHEE!), and west
leads to the way down.

MORE LAVA! Just run through,
snag the chests if you want. The
second one has another Phoenix
Down. Hit the switch on the
Overt Rock to open a path. Go
through for...

An empty room. Use the
opportunity to heal and go
through the door to...

Fire Crystal_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FIRE] Gutsco will be
waiting for you. Don't be
alarmed by his shaking the
ground with every step, just
take him out.

Boss: Salamander
My Level: 17
Rewards: 3700 gil
  686 exp
This guy's a pain. After the
first round, have someone heal
the party every single round.
Attack him with small stuff like
Blizzard, Advance, and
Retaliate. After about 6 or 7
turns, when he should be about
half dead, unload with Blizzara
and Antarctic Winds. After about
3000 damage, he'll fall. A Red
Mage works well here because
they have the M-Def to survive
his Fire Breath attack, and the
Magic to do 600 damage per
Blizzara. You'll probably only
have one or two party members
left at the end.

Once he's gone for good, you'll
receive the Horns of Ice. The
crystal will grant you four
additional Jobs as well.

Once you've equipped your new
classes (a Scholar is mandatory
for the trials ahead, or at
least Libra), return to the
dwarves.
        ________________
________________________________
    The Tyrant and the Tree|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Dwarven Hollows_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [LAHO] The Dwarf Elder
will give you a Magic Key. Woo.
If you have a Thief, it's
useless. You'll get a double
reward from the Treasury Guard,
though: access, and, I kid you
not, a once-in-a-lifetime look
at the dwarven moonwalk. The
treasury has equipment for your
new classes, so gear up.

After you've robbed them blind,
leave town. A man from Tokkul
will tell you with his dying
breath that the village is in
danger, and that a Scholar can
see Hein's weakness. Sail for
Tokkul.

Save outside the village. Upon
entering, the party will be
captured and taken to Castle
Hein.

Castle Hein_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [HYNE] You'll regain
control inside the "castle". A
somewhat secret passage to the
right will take you to King
Argus' cell. Talk to him. He'll
ask you to defeat Hein, so it's
a good thing that task was
already on the Agenda of the
Light.

Continue to the right. Talk with
both soldiers, the one furthest
right will attack you. Once he's
disposed of, continue out the
open cell door and into the next
one. A dying soldier will give
you Mini (which you should
already have). Use it and enter
the hole. You can also heal on
the pot next to it.

UnMini yourselves on the other
side, and make your way down the
hallway. You'll come to a room
with many paths. East leads to a
dead end, southeast leads to
Holy Arrows, northwest leads to
two Phoenix Downs, southwest to
another dead end, and west to
the door to the next area.

This are has two paths north.
The right path is a dead end
with another Phoenix Down, and
the left goes to the next area.

In this area, you'll find rooms
with various and sundry
treasures (Gil and attack
items). Take either path north
and go through the top door.

Grab the chest north for a Royal
Sword. Go through the west door.
Continue through this
unremarkable area to reach the
outside of the tree.

Follow the branch up, snagging
the Phoenix Down along the way,
and go through the door.

This area's a complicated maze.
West leads to an Elixir, and
east leads to another fork. At
that fork, north leads to a Rune
Bow and west leads to the next
area.

In this area, heal up and walk
onto the ominous platform when
you're ready. Now you get to
meet Hein. Time to die!

Boss: Hein
My Level: 19
Rewards: 4300 gil
  866 exp
Have your Scholar study Hein
once he uses Barrier Shift. When
you know his weakness, use the
corresponding Attack Item to
deal major damage. A Scholar can
do 1700 damage with a well-aimed
item. He'll shift Barriers every
third round, so you'll only have
two rounds in a row to attack
him at any given time.

Hein will fall over and die, and
the tree will thank you in a
split-screen dialogue. The tree
will return to the Living Woods
and you'll get the Fang of Wind.

You will be commanded to leave
the Floating Continent and
return to the Surface World. How
to do that? Go ask Argus. You
can also return to Tokkul, but
there's nothing of plot
importance there.

Castle Argus_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[EOTW] Go inside and
talk to King Argus at his round
table. He'll give you the Wheel
of Time, which has nothing to do
with the never-ending epic by
Robert Jordan.

Take it to Cid in Canaan.

Canaan_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FLYF] Talk to Cid.
He'll upgrade the Enterprise to
an Airship, but it can only land
in water. He'll also tell you a
story:

It was a day like any other,
until darkness engulfed the
world and his airship crashed.
The only survivors were himself
and four children, you can guess
who.

It's time to fly off and see
what's become of the world. The
Enterprise's little landing
quirk won't be a problem...
        ________________
________________________________
Aria, the Maiden of Water| ¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ You'll reach the
surface after short scene.
It's... flooded in really cool
looking water. On the Famicom,
that was all just the same old
Ocean tile. Go SquEnix visual
staff. welcome to the real World
Map.

You'll see a few islands on the
upper screen map. Fly to the
small on e to the north. Note
that it's actually faster to go
to the southeast, the world is
round. You'll see a wrecked
ship. Go pay a visit.

Wrecked Ship_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[ARIA] Another
unfamiliar song will play. Head
into the cabin and down the
stairs. Snag a Zeus' Wrath and a
Blood Sword form the chests and
approach the old man. You'll
meet Aria, called Elia in the
fan-translation of the original.

Use a healing item on her.
She'll wake up and ask you to
bring her to the Temple of
Water. It's that Temple on the
large island to the south.

Temple of Water_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [KRBY] Take Aria up
the central hall and through the
door. She'll grab the Crystal
Shard off the altar. Now you'll
have to go to the Cave of Tides,
your next Crystal Cave.

Cave of Tides_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [TIDE] Follow the path
down and around and Aria will
open the Sealed Portal. Head
through the door to enter the
real level. Head along the
loooong bridge and go through
the south door.

Follow the path along the bridge
and go down the stairs. Follow
the path until it splits. the
south path leads to a dead end
and west leads to another south
path. Follow it to another set
of stairs down.

In this area, you'll see a
bridge and stairs up to another
bridge. Take the upper looooonng
path to the Blizzaga spell, and
the lower path to stairs down,
again.

Down the stairs, you'll be in an
area flooded with shallow water.
Follow the path around and climb
up the stairs. Heal, and step in
the door.

Water Crystal_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [WATR] Approach the
crystal. Aria will restore the
light of the crystal using the
Shard. As Luneth and co. walk
away to prepare their part of
the ritual, Aria will shout and
shove Luneth. You'll see a
serious look on Luneth's face as
the Boss fight starts.

Boss: Kraken My Level: 22
Rewards: 5500 gil 1320 exp This
guy doesn't hit much harder than
the enemies outside, but he
single- and multi-casts
Blizzara, which can quickly
become a pain. He also casts
Blind on all party members, but
that's not much of an issue when
you're using spells. Being an
octopus, Lightning attacks work
extremely well, especially Zeus'
Wraths in the hands of a
Scholar. As long as you keep
your party healed, he should
fall easily.

Ariaaaaa... After receiving the
power of water, an earthquake
will occur. The water covering
the world will recede, and an
old woman will implore you to
seek out Doga, as he is the only
one who can help you defeat
Xande.
        ________________
________________________________
        The Man in Gold|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Amur_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[AWAK] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Battleaxe 7400 Viking Helm
  5500 Main Gauche 7000 Viking
  Mail 8000 Thunder Spear 8000
  Heroic Shield 3500 Selene Bow
  16000 Thief Gloves 2500
  Boomerang 9000 Black Garb 5000
  Iron Arrow 8 Black Cowl 4000
  Holy Arrow 10 Black Belt Gi
  6000 Madhura Harp 10000 Chakra
  Band 4500

Item Store:					Magic Store:
  Potion           50           
  Hi-Potion       600
  Gold Needle     100
  Echo Herbs      100
  Gysahl Greens   150
  Eye Drops        40
  Antidote         50

Inn price: 200

The party will awaken, after
three days, in Amur. All you can
do now is explore.

Not much to do here, except the
usual: shop, loot, harass the
natives. You can go upstairs in
the Inn and play the Piano to
get the enter Pub to dance.

By interrogating the people
here, you'll learn that Goldor,
some greedy bastard, locked up
your ship so you couldn't get to
his crystal. Intrigued? You'll
also learn about the bottomless
swamp, the location of the shoes
that can cross it, and who has
the key to said location. Your
next stop is the village
entrance.

Talk to the woman standing
there, a scene will occur.
Apparently, there are four old
guys who are going around
calling themselves the legendary
warriors. As legendary warriors
themselves, Luneth and co. are
quite offended.

Follow them in the direction
they ran and enter the large
house. Talk to the elder inside.
The four old guys will be
watching and head off to the
sewers ahead of you. "Good luck,
and mind the stench." The sewer
entrance is in the southeast
corner of town.

Sewers_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FOUR] This level
involves a lot of wading, so I
hope you don't mind wet
polygons. Wade across the stream
and go down the stairs on the
other side.

Walk down and wade across to the
platform. Follow it and wade
across to the next platform.
Pass the stairs down and grab
the chest for Cat Claws, or just
head down to the next floor.

Follow the path (I say that a
lot) and cross the bridge for a
scene. The Four Old Guys will be
surrounded by Gigantoads. You'll
have to fight all four off at
once, the largest enemy party
yet. Afterwards, they'll realize
that they aren't the warriors of
legend. No, really? Head down to
the next floor.

On this floor, you'll se a door
to the side and a bridge
opposite it. The first door has
a Diamond Bell and a Hammer, and
the door across the bridge has
Kaiser Knuckles, Power Bracers,
and a Poison Dagger. Follow the
platform until you see stairs
up. Go inside and head east for
another scene.

Delilah will try and fake you
out by tossing a fake pair of
Levigrass shoes, but the FOG
will warn you before the bomb
explodes. They'll convince
Delilah to give you the real
shoes. One of the FOG will
Teleport you out.

For once you don't have to fight
a Boss. Nice, isn't it? Leave
town and head south, continuing
along the coast until you see a
swamp. Cross it and enter Goldor
Manor.

Goldor Manor_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[GOLD] This place... is
SOLID GOLD! It's also the most
confusing maze in the game.
While I may have listed chests
in the past, this are is too
confusing to explain them with
any accuracy, there aren't too
many, anyway.

The first area has four locked
doors and a large door at the
top. Head up the central aisle
and enter the locked door on the
top right. All other doors and
paths are dead ends. If you
don't have a key, switch someone
temporarily to the thief job to
open it.

In this area, head left and up
and through the side door.
Follow the hallway around and go
through the door.

Ignore the path up and head west
until you hit the wall. Head
down and continue heading west
as far as you can go. Head up
and climb the large staircase to
the next area.

Heal up and head into the large
room to meet Goldor.

Boss: Goldor
My Level: 24
Rewards: 9900 gil
  2186 exp
Minor note: this guy's armor
makes him immune to magic, so
any Attack Items or high-level
spells you may have been saving
are useless against him. His
defense against physical
attacks, however, is pitiful.
Hit him hard with skills like
Jump and Souleater, with two
characters reserved for healing
and Hi-Potions. He has the
standard two moves per round,
and he has a high critical
ratio. His spells are just Blind
and Confuse, which won't affect
you that much. He'll
occasionally cast Thundara as
well. I had to use a few Phoenix
Downs. Alternately, if you still
have a Geomancer, Terrain is
physical, not magical, so it
does damage as normal.

Sore loser Goldor will destroy
the crystal upon his defeat. Oh
crap, there goes the
neighborhood. And the world.
Maybe. Grab the key and Teleport
out. Free your airship and fly
around for a while.
        ________________
________________________________
       Siege From Within|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Fly to the
northwest and land by the small
island. Enter the town of
Duster.

Duster_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[BARD] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Diamond Bell 4500 Gaia Vest
  5500 Madhura Harp 10000 Bard
  Vest 8000 Loki Harp 10000
  Feathered Hat 3500 Lamia Harp
  12000 Rune Bracers 2500 Dream
  Harp 12000

Item Store: Magic Store:
  Hi-Potion			600			N/A
  Gold Needle		100
  Maiden's Kiss		100
  Echo Herbs		100
  Mallet			100
  Eye Drops			 40
  Antidote			 80
  Gysahl Greens		150


	Inn price: 320

Duster is a town of bards, so
what kind of equipment will you
find here? Bard equipment (And
Geomancer stuff they forgot to
change).

You can also talk to the bards
as a sort of mini sound-test.
Nothing good, though. The
information, though (for the
most part) will be useful.
Later. When you're done here,
fly further northwest and over
the large city you'll see.

Fly towards the castle and
you'll be shot down.

Saronia_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [CVIL] It's a good
thing our intrepid heroes are
old hands at surviving airship
crashes. They couldn't have
picked a better spot to crash,
either: the middle of a CIVIL
WAR! It's a stalemate, though,
so just walk south to the world
map.

It's a sort of world map,
anyway. The world's all there,
but you're stuck inside the city
walls. I'll briefly describe
each section of town:

Northwest: The Saronia Library
and magic shop are here; both
are closed. The Inn, however, is
open for business. I won't try
to explain why the inn is open
when the city gates are tightly
shut to outsiders.

Southwest: A man in the
southeast house will call the
fat chocobo free of charge, so
be sure to swap around items.
Unfortunately, the Armor Shop is
closed, "by royal decree". What,
does the king *want* the economy
to crash? The Revification
Spring is in this district as
well.

Southeast: The Dragon Spire is
here, as well as a pair of
chocobos you can catch to make
traveling the large city less of
a pain.

Northeast: The Weapon shop here
is open for business! It only
has two weapons though. The
second weapon shop and both
magic shops are closed.

When you're all done, or even
before, enter the northeast
building of the southwest
district. You'll fight three
Gold Knights and rescue the
young prince, Alus. Don't take
him to the castle yet; you're
not ready for the trials ahead.
For the moment, you'll want to
go to the Dragon Spire.

Dragon Spire_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[DRAG] Make your way up
the tower, fighting the enemies
and reaping the benefits of more
money and experience. You'll
eventually come to the top
floor.

The left path leads to two sets
of Dragon Mail, a Thunder Spear,
and a Phoenix Down. The right
path leads to one set of Dragon
Mail, but two Dragon Helms.
Dilemma: Three armors, four
helms.

Saronia_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [NEMO] An old guy in
the southwest district will give
you a Wind Spear, and another
will give you a fourth Dragon
Mail, but you'll still need
three more Spears, which you can
get form the weapon shop in the
northeast district.

Hunt around in the forest
outside town until the job
transition phase wears off, then
head for the castle. You'll be
greeted with open arms and taken
inside.

A short scene between Arc and
Alus will occur, then the king
will try and kill his own son.
After some extra mayhem, and the
arrival of Gigameth, you'll
enter a boss fight.

Boss: Garuda
My Level: 26
Rewards: 10200 gil
  2200 exp
JUMP! He can kill you all in one
hit if he wants to. Some
characters may KO, but KEEP
JUMPING. He'll die quickly.

After he's dead, the king will
be, too. Alus, being the heir,
will become king.

Talk to him upstairs in his room
and he'll grant you permission
to loot the castle. There's a
secret passage along the east
wall of the first room you were
in, follow it to a buttload of
chests and a second passage to
even more chests.

Now go outside and enter the
building to the right. Talk to
someone inside, and theyll give
you the Nautilus, the fastest
Airship in the world (and the
series...).
        ________________
________________________________
The Apprentices of Noah| ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ You can hop on and head
to Dalg now, or you can go
shopping in the city, your
choice. There is one town to
stop by first, to the northwest
of Saronia.

Replito_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [SUMN] Item Store:
Magic Store: Hi-Potion 600
Escape 100 Gold Needle 100 Icen
7000 Echo Herbs 100 Spark 7000
Eye Drops 40 Heatra 7000
Antidote 80 Hyper 7000
Ottershroom 2000 Gysahl Greens
150 Gnomish Bread 200

	Inn price: 200

The Gulgan here will give you
more plot details. The Magic
shop sells summons, so be sure
to stop by if you have an
Evoker.

Leave town and head to the south
continent. You'll be able to fly
up the valley and through the
complex maze. There are random
encounters here, even on your
airship. Take the left fork and
land at Doga's Manor.

Doga's Manor_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[DOGA] Item Store:
Magic Store: Hi-Potion 600
Firaga 10000 Gold Needle 100 Bio
10000 Maiden's Kiss 100 Warp
10000 Echo Herbs 100 Aeroga
10000 Mallet 100 Stona 10000 Eye
Drops 40 Haste 5000 Antidote 80
Curaga 5000 Gysahl Greens 150
Raise 5000

Kupo! Kupopo! You'll be seized
by moogles shortly after you
enter. Doga will come shortly
afterwards and greet you as if
he didn't try to detain you.
He'll reveal who's calling the
darkness: Xande. Of course, you
know that name by now.

Magus Noah, upon his death,
granted his three apprentices
their own gift. Doga gained his
magical power, Unei acquired the
world of dreams, and Xande got
mortality. He was a little
miffed, so he summoned darkness
and stopped time.

After the explanation, Doga will
join the party. You must escort
him to the Cave of the Circle.
Head to the end of the hallway,
up the stairs, and into a rather
decorated room. Hit the switch
on the top right candle to open
a door next to it.

Go inside and shrink yourselves,
then enter the small hole. Mini
Maze time.

Cave of the Circle_ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[TINY] Actually, this
place is extremely linear. Just
keep heading left along the
straight path, warping to the
next area as necessary, and
you'll eventually reach an area
that screams Boss Fight! No boss
fight, Doga will just cast a
spell to make the Nautilus
seaworthy. He'll then tell you
to seek Noah's Lute underwater
at Cape Twin Horn.

Sail to the bay south of
Saronia, and press B to land in
the water. You won't land,
rather, you'll keep going and be
able to "fly" underwater. You
can also go to Doga's Village,
where you can buy spells from
level 3 to level 7. You can get
there through the narrow
underwater passage on the
eastern edge of Dalg.

Temple of Time_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[LUTE] It's annoying,
but you'll need to be about
level 32 to survive the enemies
here. That, or have really high
defense. I was only about level
28 after waltzing through the
last area, and the enemies here
are merciless. My Dragoon with a
defense of 75 was taking 200-500
damage a hit.

The locked doors contain a
Diamond Helm and Diamond
Bracers. Grab them if you want.
The southwest corner has stairs
to the flooded section. Wade
north along the east wall and
climb the stairs. Head east and
down to the next floor.

Snag the Defender from the chest
and head down again.

Behemoths! Entirely too hard and
not even worth the experience.
Three Chimera Mages are easier
and more worth the effort.

Anyway, head east and down the
stairs, then follow the east
wall to dry land. Alternately,
the west platform has another
locked door with Diamond Gloves
and a Behemoth Knife. Go inside
the east locked door and head
down the stairs.

Head down the many stairs and
wade south, heading east once
you reach dry land. Go inside
the locked door, snag the Lute
off the altar, and Teleport out.

Fly northeast from the bay, make
a left at the forest, and land
in front of the cave.

Unei's Shrine_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [UNNE] Walk up and
press A in front of the sleeping
Unei. She'll wake up, stretch,
and join the party. She'll also
give you the Fang of Fire.

Fly along the coast and through
the complicated river maze. Land
off to the side of the swamp and
cross it to the cave.

Ancient Ruins_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [WHAL] A few monsters
in this here cave have the
abilities Multiply and Divide.
Multiply creates a duplicate at
equal HP, and Divide halves the
user's HP and creates a
duplicate at half HP. The
monsters Divide whenever they
are hit, so if you manipulate it
right, you can force them to
divide into nearly endless
copies, and reap the EXP reward
for doing so. Souleater works
well here.

Once inside, talk with the
Scholars and learn their plight.
A cave in. This doesn't pose
much of a challenge to Unei, who
will clear it in one blast.

Continue deeper inside and go
through the first door you come
across for a spiffy new set of
Reflect Mail. Go through the
second for a hallway and another
roomful of Scholars. You'll also
find three doors.

In the first (on the far right)
you can buy Diamond armor and
new Robes (at last!). In the
second, you can buy Defenders,
Blood Lances, and Medusa Arrows.
The third is an Inn/Item Shop.
Now if only they had a save
point to go with it.

When you're done looting the
ruins, head down the stairs to
the south. Or you could Teleport
out, save, retrace your steps,
then go down the stairs. Your
call.

Head down the long hallway and
take the north branch when it
presents itself, follow it until
the path turns right, then
follow that and go down the
stairs. The other side rooms
have miscellaneous treasures,
mainly Black Belt stuff.

Head down this short hallway and
go down the stairs again. Repeat
the process of linear-path-
following in the next area.

In this next area, don't attack
the Zombie Dragons with Blood
weapons, the effect reverses,
they heal 200 points and you
take 1500 (or whatever) damage.
Repeat the above process here.

At long last, you'll reach a
hangar of sorts. Board the ship
you find here. Unei will explain
how the ship works, then leave.
Many places are open to you,
now. One of which is Falgabard,
a town of Dark Knights.

Falgabard_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [KNGT] Weapon Store:
Armor Store:
  Ashura 16000 Demon Mail 25000
  Yoichi Bow 42000 Demon Shield
  12500 Yoichi Arrow 500 Demon
  Axe 40000

Item Store:					Magic Store:
  Hi-Potion 600 (All L3) 1500
  each Gold Needle 100 Echo
  Herbs 100 Eye Drops 40
  Antidote 50 Ottershroom 2000
  Gysahl Greens 150 Gnomish
  Bread 200

The cave here gives a sampling
of what the enemies are like in
the next mandatory area. There
are side areas with easier
monsters to cut your teeth on
before you venture into the dark
depths.

After you've finished leveling,
enter this small cave and grab a
Blessed Hammer and some Dark
Knight equipment from the
various chests. You'll also find
a Kotetsu, a better sword than
the Ashura you can buy in
stores.

If you've finished looting,
Teleport or walk out, board the
invincible, and take it to the
west continent. If you use
Sight, you'll notice a cave
north of Amur. Fly there, using
the Invincible's Overdrive to
cross the mountains along the
rudimentary maze. Disembark in
front of the cave and enter it.

Cave of Shadows_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [DARK] A Dark Knight
by the entrance will warn you of
the monsters inside. A solution:
equip your Dark Knight (you
should have one) with a Kotetsu
and an Ashura (or two Ashuras)
and have them attack enemies
while the other party members
Guard. The DK will probably kill
enemies in one hit (15, rather
:).

Duplicating Enemies (all others
can be attacked normally):
Valefor Haniel Vassago

Anyway, on with the cave. As you
enter, head east through the
fake wall and snag the Black
Musk from the chest. Go back the
way you came and follow the
south path, snagging the Dark
Claws along the way, and talking
to the Dark Knight by the
stairs.

He'll give you another Kotetsu.
Equip it to your Dark Knight if
you wish. (You could have a 4 DK
party here, but the equips are
expensive and it is no longer as
vital as it used to be.) Go down
the stairs to the next area.

At the risk of sounding
repetitive, follow the path
until you reach a whole in the
wall. Follow the invisible
walkway, grab the Lilith's Kiss
if you wish, then head south
along another invisible path.
Head west and go along the sort
invisible path to stairs down.

Go south through this wide
corridor, ignoring the hidden
path, and follow it around to
another false wall and more
stairs down.

This next area starts a rather
complicated invisible path maze.
Go east, then south at the first
fork to Genji Gloves and the
stairs down.

Go along the invisible path at
the southwest corner of the
room, then take the invisible
path at the south end of the
room it leads to. Once again,
the south end of the room has an
invisible path. Follow it, then
take the path west to another
room, then take the south path
in the opposite corner. You'll
come to stairs down.

In this area, take the invisible
path to the east, follow the
corridor down, then go west to a
Kiku-Ichimonji and more stairs
down.

Snag the Genji Shield from the
chest and take the path east,
ignoring the rest of the
hallway. Head south along the
next hallway and go along the
invisible path west at the end.
You'll find... more stairs!

Now you can follow along the
elaborate bridge to a Genji Helm
and a door. Go inside, heal up,
and grab the Fang of earth! Or
not...

Boss: Hecatonchier My Level: 39
Rewards: 8000 gil 2600 exp Jump
and Odin are quite effective
here, as is your Dark Knight
with an attack of
220. All he'll do is attack
     twice per turn. Lame.
     Assuming you're doing at
     least
3000 damage per attack, Jump,
etc., he'll drop in three or so
rounds of combat. Lameoid.

Now use Teleport and return to
Doga's Manor. Youll have to go
fetch the Nautilus first,
though. As you enter the Manor,
Doga will open a gate for the
party to enter.

Doga's Grotto_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [GADO] Yay! Filler
level! I hope you saved before
entering, though. It's not easy.
For your own sake, please do not
read the boss descriptions just
yet. Don't say I didn't warn
you.

Finally, they really start
playing with the 3D aspect of
levels. This one slopes gently
downward. Anyway, follow the
path until you reach stairs
down.

In this next area, grab the
freebie chest with 10000 Gil and
continue following the path
down. Grab the next freebie,
10000 more Gil, and go down the
stairs.

Take the west path, and snag the
Rising Sun, Lust Dagger, and
White Musk from the chests in
the small room. Continue down to
. Lastly, grab the Chocobo's
Wrath from the chest and head
down the stairs.

Grab the Phoenix Down and work
your way down this latest windy
path. Grab the next Phoenix Down
and enter the room at the end.

Heal up and walk up the path to
meet Doga and Unei. They will
tell you of the weapons sealed
in Eureka, and the method of
repairing the key. How? A chain
of boss fights.

Boss: Doga My Level: 40 Rewards:
12000 gil 3400 exp Start out by
using Protect on your party
members (use the Defender, it's
cheaper). Use the usual high-
damage attacks that you used
against Whatshisbucket (the last
boss), they'll do even more
damage now. Doga will use Drain
and Blizzaga as well as physical
attacks. Drain can sting,
especially if he uses it twice.

After a hard battle, Unei will
fight you next. She'll use a
line that showed up later in
FF9, but it's translated
differently this time.

Boss: Unei My Level: 40 Rewards:
12600 gil 4000 exp She'll use
Tornado along with her physical
attacks, which can reduce it's
target's health to 1. She'll
also cast Protect on herself.
She has much less health than
Doga, though.

They'll then give you the Eureka
key and tell you of Xande's
stronghold, the Syrcus (ouch,
translation...) Tower. Bonus!
They'll have their Light's
identified Luneth: Courage, Arc:
Kindness, Refia: Affection,
Ingus: Determination.

You can now Teleport out and
save.
        ________________
________________________________
  The Forbidden Land, Eureka|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Go back to the
Invincible (You'll want it's
functions, trust me) and fly to
the eight statues north of Amur.
Land, walk past each pair,
they'll vanish because of your
Fangs, then fly north and east
to a rather impressive looking
tower. Heal up, give unnecessary
items to the Fat Chocobo, save,
and enter the Ancients' Maze.

This level's so short I won't
even give it a section. Just
head up and through the door
to...

Earth Crystal_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [ERTH] It's a Crystal!
Wooohooo, new jobs! New boss,
too.

Boss: Titan My Level: 41
Rewards: 13500 gil 6900 exp Yay,
a recolor of that Hecatonchier
(Thank God for Ctrl+C) guy. He
hits much harder, though... His
near-death spell is Quake, but
that shouldn't do too much with
his low Magic stat. If Odin used
Protective Light, just bounce an
-aga off your party to negate
its effects. He's easier than
Doga.

The Crystal will bless you with
its light and tell you to stop
Xande's nefarious plan. Weren't
you going to, anyway?

What the HELL? You get Ninja and
Sage from a crystal? Welcome to
broken-dom.

Go out, save, play with your new
toys, and re-enter the Maze.

Ancients' Maze_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[MAZE] From the
entrance, take the right path
and go up, snag the Elixir, and
head through the door.

Go left here and grab the
Crystal Shield and Lilith's Kiss
from the Chests. Head right
again, go up and around, and
snag the Crystal Mail from the
chest. Head up and grab the
White Musk, then go right along
the path, snagging the Crystal
Gloves, until you reach the next
area.

Grab the Crystal Helm from the
chest to the right, then follow
the path south to a fork. Go
south to a trio of chests, with
a Break Blade, a Phoenix Down,
and a Chocobo's Wrath. Go back
north and follow the east path
to a Dual Haken and the next
area.

Follow the windy path, snagging
the Phoenix Down and Protect
Ring along the way, and go
through the door.

A fork! Not really. Head north
to the end of either path (they
merge again at the end) and snag
the Holy Lance. Once again
either path will do, go around
and grab the Hellish Claws from
the chest.

Go up and exit to the World Map.
Finally!

Enter the tower and head up the
stairs to the next room. Press A
on the door to initiate a short
scene, and open the door to:

The Forbidden Land, Eureka_ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ ______
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[ERKA] If you've played
the original, you know: this
place is massive. But my God
does it look awesome now.

Head west along the path and
Grab the Fuma Garb and Chocobo's
Wrath from the chests on the
outcropping. Go around to the
other side and grab the White
Musk and Elixir. Follow the path
south to the next area.

Head east to a room and grab the
Chocobo's Wrath, Phoenix Down,
and White Musk from the chests.
You can go south and to the left
above the rock formation to a
chest with a Ribbon, but its
guarded. Head back west to
another room with a white musk.
Go south and take the west path
when you reach it. Go down the
stars and snag a Shuriken, then
go back up and take the east
path down to the next area.

Head south and take the west
fork when it presents itself.
Grab the Elixir and head back
and south, grabbing the Shuriken
and Phoenix Down from the chests
and going down to the next area.

Follow the path here until you
see a round killing thing (never
mind...) on an altar, grab it to
fight a boss.

Boss: Amon My Level: 44 Rewards:
20350 gil 6700 exp Hi-Potion
Hyne refight! You don't
necessarily need a Scholar, just
be sure to use Libra whenever he
Barrier Shifts. Same basic
strategy applies: hit him with
everything you've got. He'll go
down fairly easily.

Take your Moonring Blade and
continue down the path. Grab the
Phoenix Down and go down to the
next area.

In this area, head down and take
the west fork to an Omnirod (93
attack! For a MAGE!!!) and the
east fork to a sword and another
boss.

Boss: Kunoichi My Level: 44
Rewards: 14500 gil 7300 exp Ow
she hits hard. And she can
attack three times per round. A
Knight is really useful here,
especially with a full Diamond
set, as it can take 50 damage
for someone who would take 500.
In addition to attacks, she'll
also cast Aeroga, which stings.
Don't be afraid to go wild with
spells, you'll be fully healed
afterwards.

The Masamune is a really
powerful sword. And it's purple.
What's there not to like?
Backtrack to the center path and
follow it to the stairs down.

Follow the path around this
area, go past the stairs, and
take the sword on the altar
here. After the boss, of course.

Boss: General My Level: 44
Rewards: 15600 gil 7500 exp This
guy is strictly physical. He
hits hard, though, but it's
nothing your healer can't
handle. Later on, he'll start
casting Bio, but he's got the
usual physical-boss aptitude for
it.

Head on to the next area.

Pick your poison, two items, two
bosses. To the east we have
Ragnarok:

Boss: Guardian My Level: 45
Rewards: 16500 gil 7900 exp
W00t, a guy with Reflect. It's
good thing Summon Spells can't
be Reflected, isn't it?
Unfortunately, his attacks
Confuse in addition to hurting.
Stick to the usual hit-it-hard-
until-it-stops-moving plan, but
avoid using any Black magic,
unless you'd like to eat it.
He'll occasionally use Tornado
followed by a physical attack,
which is just plain mean, but a
Knight can handle it.

The Ragnarok is even better than
Excalibur, but only by a little
bit. There's still another boss,
though:

Boss: Scylla My Level: 45
Rewards: 16200 gil 7700 exp
Crap, this weird dog-headed
thing has Flare. And Holy. Which
both will kill a Fighter
character in one hit. Add -agas
and a high physical attack, and
you've got the toughest boss in
Eureka. Did I mention her attack
PETRIFIES? Welcome to old
school. I guess she was supposed
to be fought before Guardian.
Whatever.

The Elder Staff... is awesome.
It casts Cura. You know what
that means.

You have now cleared Eureka,
mostly. One final area remains,
and it lies at the other end of
that warp.

Wheee! Stores and healing
springs, as well as two Elixirs
and Surikens. The summons can be
bought even if you haven't
defeated those bosses, which is
broken and wrong, but I'm not
paid to criticize them. I'm not
paid period, so:

SHAME ON YOU, SQUARE-ENIX. YOU
LAZY BUMS.

Magic Stores: Armor and Weapon
Store:
  Flare 60000 Shuriken 65600
  Death 60000 Crystal Shield
  50000 Meteor 60000 Crystal
  Mail 50000 Tornado 60000
  Crystal Gloves 50000 Arise
  60000 Crystal Helm 50000 Holy
  60000 Apollo Harp 60000

  Catastro		40000
  Leviath		50000
  Bahamur		60000

When you're done, teleport out.

       _________________
________________________________
    This is the Last Battle|
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Save, for the
last time, and enter the Syrcus
Tower.

Crystal Tower_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [SYLX] This place is
too much of a maze to describe
chest locations in text alone,
so I'll just describe the path
through the area.

Go north up the stairs, then
take a left and go north to a
sealed door. Your Syrcus Key
will react and open the way.
Climb up to the next area.

Follow the path down and go up
the stairs. Head east and up the
next set of stairs. Follow the
east wall south to more stairs
and the door to the next area.

Go east along the path, through
the concealed archway, and along
to stairs up.

Head up the stairs, then south
along the other set, turning wet
by the chest. Follow the
invisible path to a mirror-image
of the path you were on before.
Follow it to stairs down.

Follow the path up to a higher
level, and go north around the
hole in the center. Go up to the
next area.

Enter the room in the center to
reach the next floor.

Go east here and follow the
windy path around to the bottom
of the area, then go up to the
next area. Go north here to the
next area again.

Guess what? Go north here to the
next area, then go up the stairs
to yet another door to the next
area.

In this room, approach the
mirror in the center to meet
Xande, in person this time. Or
not. You'll be cursed instead.
Doga will speak to you and go to
find the five people who can
break the curse. He'll retrieve
Sara, Cid, Desch (yup, he's
alive), One of the F.O.G., and
Alus. Of course, he'll spin it
differently each time. That guy
should be in advertising.

They'll come and save you, and
the party will enter the mirror
to stop Xande.

Heal up, this begins a point of
no return. Everything you do
here will never be saved, so
make sure you're prepared before
you reach this point.

Head up and a scene will begin
automatically.

Boss: Xande My Level: 48
Recommended Level: 53 Rewards:
25000 gil (Oh the irony... No
stores...) 8500 exp Cut loose
with everything. He has -agas,
Haste, and semi-powerful
physical attacks. He also has
basically nil defense. When he's
closer to dead, he'll also use
Meteor. He's probably the
toughest boss you've fought yet.
At level 53, however, he's a
piece of cake and will probably
die before using Meteor.

Xande will die, but the Cloud of
Darkness will still be summoned.
Damn, she uses the royal "we".

Final Boss: Cloud of Darkness,
2x Tentacle My Level: 48
Rewards: Death is its own reward
You can't win here, don't even
bother. You'll fight for a bit,
then BAM! Particle beam. 9999
damage. You're dead. She's the
Final Boss, but this isn't the
Final Battle just yet.

In an event that was COMPLETELY
ripped off in FFIV, your past
allies will revive the party so
they can fight the good fight
once more.

"You are our only hope. You must
bring balance between light and
darkness!"

In the original beta of FFIII,
there was a save point here. The
testers thought that would make
it too easy, so no such luck.
It's gone, dying now means
restarting the Syrcus Tower.
When you're mentally prepared
(you're already healed), go
forth to the last level. Don't
die.

World of Darkness_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [YAMI] This is it, the
last level. It's not terribly
long once you know what to do.
There are five paths, four lead
to bosses, and the fifth leads
to certain death. All the chests
here, four in total, contain
Ribbons, but you'll have to
fight a Zande's Clone for each.
I wouldn't recommend it at this
stage, as dying means restarting
the Crystal Tower from the
beginning. At least that's what
I said before learning that our
lovely Final Boss now has status
magics. Cow.

Southeast warp: Take either path
east or west, and follow it to a
branch north that leads to a
warp. Step on it to go to... A
Crystal? This is the World of
Darkness, parallel to the World
of Light. Two worlds, two sets
of crystals. Another thing FFIV
ripped off. Go up to the crystal
to fight a boss.

Boss: Ahriman My Level: 49
Recommended Level: Rewards:
66666 gil (What's with all the
Gil? You can't use it for
anything.) 16666 exp (Nice.) In
addition to having the worlds
longest attack animation, he
casts Curaja. Bastard. He's got
Quake and the -agas, too, but
they don't do much. He has loads
of health, but that's about it.
You'll be fully healed after, so
cut loose.

A Warrior of the Dark will
appear and explain the balance
of Light and Dark. He'll "join
you" for the final battle. Walk
your way out and take another
path.

Southwest warp:

Take the first path to the left
of the center and head north.
Warp to the next Crystal Room.
Of course, there's another boss,
too.

Boss: Echidna My Level: 50
Rewards: 66666 gil 16666 exp
Yay, she casts Death and Drain
and can inflict Silence with her
attacks. Isn't this going to be
fun? And did I mention Tornado
and Quake? She'll start using
Meteor when she's almost dead.
Once again she has entirely too
much health, but you don't need
to hold back any.

Another Warrior of the Dark,
another bit of backstory. Walk
out again and choose another
path.

Northwest warp:

Just follow the path to the end,
taking the right fork when you
reach it. You'll be in another
Crystal room. With another boss.

Boss: Cerberus My Level: 50
Rewards: 66666 gil 16666 exp
Three heads, three attacks per
round. Other than that, he's
pretty unremarkable. He's got
-agas, but they're Fighter
-agas. Once again he's a boss
with too much health.

Yet another Warrior of the Dark.
He'll explain the conflict of
Hope versus the Void. Yeah, you
Hope you can slaughter the CoD.
Walk your way out again.

Northeast warp:

Just follow this long path to
its end for another Crystal room
with another boss.

Boss: Two-Headed Dragon My
Level: 51 Rewards: 66666 gil
16666 exp He/she/it hits really
hard. It also enjoys attacking
the same person twice in a row.
All it does is attack, though
it's attacks can silence. Cut
loose as usual.

One last Warrior of the Dark,
one last bit of back info. Walk
your way out again.

Center warp:

This is it, the last leg of your
journey. Follow the path along
the narrow beam of light to a
warp.

Hear that song, this is it. Heal
up and approach the top of the
room.

The Final Battle_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[KUMO] Final encounter.
The Cloud of Darkness
(henceforth Kumo-chan, don't
ask) will taunt you, the Dark
Warriors will weaken her, and
the last battle will begin. She
gets so pissed briefly that she
slips up and uses a singular
pronoun.

Last Battle: Cloud of Darkness,
2x Tentacle My Level: 55+
Rewards: 79000 gil 37499 exp End
of Game I'll start with her
attack first. This is a long
section. One Tentacle will
Protect and Haste her, while the
other uses Bad Breath. She will
attack you and occasionally use
Particle Beam, which is much
weaker than before, though it
quickly becomes her favorite toy
as her health decreases.

She is the toughest boss in the
game, which is why they saved
her for last.

Since the 90s, there has been
the standard approach to
fighting her: 2 Sages, and 2
Ninjas. This approach now fails
dismally. Reason: Sages suck.
That's right, the ultimate magic
class is now trash, courtesy of
it being slower than molasses in
January. Sure, Kumo-chan is
slow, but she's still faster
than a Sage.

In the remake, the Devout Job is
much better for white magic, and
can handle more Curajas without
recovering MP. Since Curaja is a
much more powerful; spell, and
characters have less HP, you'll
only need one. You can also have
a Knight, in full Crystal armor,
equipped with an Aegis shield in
place of a weapon so it can
avoid all status ailments and
use attack items and Elixirs as
needed. The battle will be
longer but you're more likely to
survive. The other two
characters should be a Ninja
spamming Shuriken and some other
class that can deal major damage
(I had a Summoner with Bahamur).

Epilogue_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FINI] A nifty
starfield effect on the lower
screen will probably distract
you from the extra backstory on
the top screen. Hope! Yes, hope.

The four heroes will
miraculously warp to the World
of Light, and a tearful reunion
will ensue. Your various
companions will be returned home
in the airships, first the
Invincible, then the Nautilus.
Cid and Desch will both return
to Cannan, and TWO couples will
be reunited. Remember Salina?

Sara will stay with the party
(Ingus) just a little bit
longer, and the party will
return to Ur. A Dancer will try
to give Ingus a thank-you kiss.
Like Sara's gonna let that
happen.

A new day will dawn, and the
credits will roll. Save
afterwards if you want to keep
all the money and experience you
got (but say goodbye to all the
Shuriken you threw...). There'll
also be three stars in the
bottom-right corner, but I don't
know exactly what they mean
beyond "Yay! You beat it!" Maybe
they unlock more Mognet stuff.
       __________________
________________________________
Master Level Summons and MORE!| 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ This section
describes all the original bonus
dungeons from the Famicom FFIII.
I probably won't write anything
on the Wi-Fi extra quests any
time soon. DO NOT e-mail me
about them.

Odin, the Sealed Knight_ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [ODIN] Fly to the
southeast corner of Saronia with
the Nautilus and submerge. Enter
the cave there for a brief area
with an optional boss.

Walk north and go through the
door. Follow the long platform
and go through the door at the
end.

Take the right path here for a
Golem Staff, a Rune Bell, and an
Aegis Shield. Take the left path
for Reflect Mail (woo...) a
Heavy Lance, and stairs up.
Climb up the stairs in this
small antechamber to arrive at
Saronia Castle.

Talk to the scary knight to
enter a boss fight.

Boss: Odin
My Level: 36
Rewards: 16800 gil
  5000 exp
This guy's got really low
defense, so use physical attacks
and powerful spells (-agas and
the Titan summon). He attacks
twice each turn, one did about
300 damage to my Dragoon with
full Diamond armor. Eventually,
he'll pull out his almost-dead
skill, Zantetsuken, which does
massive damage (about 1000) to
all party members, which can
wipe you out if you don't stay
close to fully healed. If you
get lucky, he won't even get a
chance to use it. If you get
unlucky, he'll use it twice.

After accepting defeat, he'll
give you his summon spell, the
Level 6 Catastro.

Leviathan, the Sea King_ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [LVIA] Fly back to the
Floating Continent (which takes
a while on the slow Invincible).
South of the Gulgan Gulch is a
lake. Using the Invincible's
Overdrive, cross the mountains
south of it, then land and take
your canoe out to that big
monster.

Monsters here = major
experience. More experience than
Odin major. You'll be leveling
up in no time, though they do
get a bit ugly in the damage
department at times. I wouldn't
recommend fighting the boss
until much later, though.

Follow the route southeast from
the entrance, and snag the
Attack Items and Phoenix Down
from the chests, then head north
to three Hi-Potions and an
Elixir. Head down the stairs.

Follow this path and grab the
north and south chests for a
White Musk, an Aegis Shield, a
Platinum Hammer, a Bacchus's
Cider, and a Turtle Shell. Head
south and down the stairs.

This next area has a few forks.
The northeast path leads to
another platinum Hammer, Reflect
Mail, a Black Hole, and a Black
Musk. The southwest path leads
to a Lilith's Kiss and a Ravens
Yawn. The northeast path leads
to stairs down, again. You can
fight the boss now, but I
wouldn't recommend it unless you
have at least 2000 HP.

Boss: Leviathan My Level: 45
Rewards: 16100 gil 5000 exp Just
hit him with every lightning-
type attack you have. He'll
physical attack until halfway
through, when he'll add Tsunami
to the mix. It won't kill you at
a high level, but it hurts.

Bahamut, King of Dragons_ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ ______
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[BHAM] Fly west from
Gysahl, over Tozus, and use the
Invincible to cross the
mountains. Enter the cave there
for another short level.

The east and west forks from the
central platform lead to some
chests. Take the south fork to
the stairs down, then just work
your way through this linear
cave. I had a section typed up,
but then WordPad crashed.

Heal up, and approach the exit
to fight Bahamut.

Boss: Bahamut My Level: 47
Rewards: 16500 gil 5000 exp He's
not invincible this time. In
fact, he's quite vincible, so
hit him with everything you've
got to shoot down flying
enemies. Aeroga does massive
damage here. He'll just attack
regularly, and only about as
hard as Leviathan. He probably
also casts Mega Flare, but I
don't know for sure.

You'll now have the final summon
spell, Bahamur. You'll have to
walk your way out of the cave,
though.

The Sunken Cave_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ [LOST] There's one
last bonus dungeon I completely
forgot to mention, mostly
because of its complete lack of
remarkable features. I'm
referring to the Sunken Cave, a
tiny little hole under some
island. You'll find it under the
island at the southeast corner
of the map.

Starting off, just follow the
path down to the next floor.

The east branch leads to a chest
with Tiger Claws. He short
branch west has a chest with a
Chakram. The southwest path
leads to a Dual Tomahawk and the
southeast path leads to the way
down.

Head south across the bridge to
a fork. South leads to an
Ancient Sword and another
bridge, which leads to a
Cognitome, a Diamond Helm, Metal
Knuckles, and a Diamond Sheild.
The west fork leads to an Air
Knife, Diamond Mail, a Loki
Harp, and Diamond Bracers. South
from there leads to a Phoenix
Down, an Elixir, and Diamond
Gloves.

That's all, but they're all
pretty useful if you get them
early on. I went here at Level
55, after beating the game, and
was less than impressed.
__________________
[EXTR] Extra Stuff\_____________

FC to DS Changes_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯
¯ ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯[FCDS] I was asked to
list what noticeable changes
were made in the remaking
process, so here is list. If I
don't mention something here,
that means it hasn't changed.

-A 3-minute FMV intro has been
 added

-The ending lines of the Gulgan
 prophecy have been modified to
 fit the revised intro segment

-At the start of the game,
 Luneth is the only party member

-The four Warriors have distinct
 names, personalities, and
 backgrounds

-Chests here and there have
 different contents

-A Quicksave feature has been
 added (it's only a suspend-type
 save, not free saving like in
 I&II Advance)

-Enemy party size has been
 reduced due to graphical
 limitations, now there is a
 maximum of three enemies per
 random battle, but four in one
 special case

-Enemy difficulty has increased
 to offset party size reduction
 (see above)

ENemy turns are no longer
calculated alonside player turns
(see Battle section)

-Monsters give more experience
 and Gil

-The Crystal Chambers have been
 almost completely redesigned

-The Wind Crystal does not grant
 jobs to the heroes after the
 Land Turtle is defeated

-A scene in Ur introducing Arc
 has been added

-Topapa has a few extra lines
 explaining how he adopted
 Luneth

-The scene at the Kazus entrance
 has been modified to include
 Arc

-The Blacksmith in Kazus now
 complains about his daughter

-A scene in Cid's Airship
 introducing Refia has been
 added

-The background music for the
 Airship inner/Dragon's Peak,
 "Road to the Summit," has been
 extended

-The lone guard at Sasune has
 been replaced with Ingus, and a
 scene introducing him has been
 added

-The romance between Sara and a
 party member has been switched
 to focus on Ingus

-The Djinn is fought without the
 use of Jobs

-The party no longer leaves
 Sealed Cave with Sara, they are
 warped to the Wind Crystal and
 separated from her

-The party receives Jobs from
 the Crystal in a scene added
 after defeating Djinn

-The Thief Job is now received
 from the Wind Crystal

-A moogle shows up briefly
 explaining the Job system

-The Capacity system has been
 removed and replaced with a
 "job transition phase"

-The party now meets up with
 Sara at the entrance to Sasune
 Castle

-The scenes involving the
 Airship's upgrade have been
 modified to center on Refia

-Dragon's peak now has cliffs

-The Tozas theme has been
 slightly extended

-The Tozas Map (and all Mini-
 exclusive areas) have been
 resized so you no longer appear
 mini on them

-The spell Sight now shows area
 locations on the upper screen
 temporarily instead of showing
 a zoomed out map

-The Fat Chocobo theme is
 somewhat extended

-The Geomancer Job is now
 received from the Fire Crystal

-The Living Forest map has a
 giant crater in it

-A secret room has been added to
 Gysahl where you can view the
 Bestiary

-An area of Hein's Castle has
 been moved to outside

-A scene with Cid explaining the
 back story of the four orphans
 has been added

-A scene with the four leaving
 the Floating Continent has been
 added

-The flooded surface world now
 has a darker look with cool
 warping water

-Aria's theme has been extended

-The Magic Knight job has become
 the Dark Knight, with its own
 new strengths and weaknesses

-The Black Belt job is not
 obtained from the Water
 Crystal; the shops in Amur have
 not been changed to reflect
 this

-You cannot board you ship after
 Goldor's chained it, in the
 original, you could sail a
 short distance before the chain
 was taut

-The Saronia theme is somewhat
 extended, and not quite as dark

-Every level after Goldor's
 Manor has been almost
 completely redesigned

-The Submarine theme is slightly
 extended

-The Underwater Cave theme has a
 longer intro

-Falgabard has been changed to a
 town of Dark Knights (Instead
 of Magic Knights...)

-Doga has a few more lines,
 describing the Lights of the
 individual characters

-The Ninja and Sage Jobs are
 obtained from the Earth
 Crystal. WTF?

-The Syrcus (Sylx) Tower is now
 HUGE but with the same layout

-The Eureka theme has a longer
 intro

-Shuriken are no longer
 equipable weapons

-You can now buy the three
 highest Summon Spells without
 first having them in your
 inventory XD

-The party is fully healed after
 each boss in Eureka and the
 World of Darkness

-The sped up version of the
 CoD's theme doesn't play when
 the Warriors of the Dark show
 up

-The Cloud of Darkness is
 accompanied by two Tentacles

-The Cloud of Darkness now has
 an attack pattern, not just
 FlareWave every turn

-The Nautilus no longer has long
 pauses when flying in the
 ending

-The player is allowed to save
 after the credits

-The Onion Knight Job is acquied
 through annoying WiFi hurdles

-Miscillaneous side quests are
 unlocked through Mognet

________________________________
[IFAQ] Frequently Asked Question
s\______________________________
________________ Someone
mentioned I sounded like an
asshole in the FAQ section. It's
called sarcasm. I am happy to
assist people when they have
questions, but sometimes the
answers are already in the
guide, and sending me an email
asking a question I've already
answered is a waste of my time
and yours.

Steps to finding a solution to a
problem: 1. Read the manual 2.
Read the in-game help text (i.e.
The description for Mini says
that it
  shrinks AND unshrinks the
  target, pretty useful
  knowledge, huh?)
4. Check the guide, including
sections before the spot where
you have
  trouble
3. Check the forums, someone may
have asked your question and
gotten a
  reply
	5. Ask me

With all those said:

Q: Where do I get the [such and
such] Job? A: Look at the Jobs
Section. I'd post exactly where
you get each job before I
   actually got to that part of
   the game, but they've changed
   a few Job locations from the
   Famicom release, so I don't
   know for certain yet.

Q: HELP MEEEE!!!!! I don't know
how to change Jobs! How do I
change Jobs? A: I was shocked
and appalled by the number of
times I got this question. I
   really thought it was self-
   explanatory. In order to
   change Jobs, you must first
   have gotten the first set of
   Jobs after beating Djinn.

Q: I ran out of Phoenix Down.
Where can I get more? A: If
you've snagged every chest in
every dungeon and ran out, I'd
say you're
   pretty much screwed. I can't
   tell you where to get more,
   as I don't know what chests
   you've gotten. However, a
   recent email has enlightened
   me to the option of stealing
   them off the Rustbirds on
   Dragon's Peak. Unfortunately,
   this requires access to
   Dragon's Peak.

   To conserve Phoenix Down:
-NEVER use Phoenix Downs when
you're in a random encounter.
Just don't.
 You can always redo the level,
 they're usually pretty short.
-NEVER sell them, even if you
need the 1 gold you get from the
sale. -NEVER use too many
against one boss. Sure you win,
but at what cost? -Make sure you
aren't too underleveled. If the
monsters kill you in one hit, go
level up somewhere else.

Q: How do weapons that cast
spells work? A: Use the Item
command (in battle) and select
that weapon as if it were any
   other attack item. You can
   use it as many times as you
   want and it has the same
   effect as if that character
   was casting the spell.

Q: How do I board/disembark from
the Enterprise? A: Just walk
into it to board (you may have
to try a different angle) and
sail
   into the shore to disembark.
   It takes patience and
   persistence sometimes.

Q: How do I cast Mini?
A: Menu ->
   Magic -> [White Mage, Red
   Mage, Scholar, Devout, or
   Sage] -> LV.2 -> Mini -> All
   Party Members You need at
   least 1 MP at spell LV.2 or
   this won't work

Q: Where is [such and such
location]? I can't find it! A:
The magic Sight marks all
locations on your map
temporarily. If you're
   looking for a dungeon, fly
   around and visit the dungeons
   it marks that you haven't
   visited yet. This can be done
   on the floating continent,
   the main overworld, and
   underwater.

Q: Tell me what Jobs to use.
A: No.

Q: Why haven't you updated yet?
A: I have this annoying thing
called a life. As devoted as I
am to Final Fantasy
   III, sometimes there are more
   important things to do. If I
   haven't updated in a while,
   it means I'm having a bad
   week.

Q: What does [this word] mean?
A: Oy. This is why God invented
the Dictionary, my friend. Worst
case scenario:
   Google it.

And a recent biggie: Q: Can I
have your friend code? A: NO. I
don't want to, and it wouldn't
work anyway due to the
ingeniously
   crafted friend code system
   that requires simultaneous
   logons by both players, which
   is nearly impossible without
   synchronized watches or being
   in the same room. Or you
   could use AIM, but I'm a
   conscientious objector to
   AOL.

_________________
[KUPO] Contact Me\______________

...If you feel it absolutely
necessary. E-mail me if you have
questions, would like to submit
any extra info I may have
glossed over, or if I just plain
screwed up. I won't be offended.
Do not send me the locations of
treasure chests I ignored in the
guide unless it's something
*really* good. I probably won't
reply (I'll just update the
guide with your contribution)
unless you have a question too
unique for the FAQ section.

New rule: Don't ask me about
glitches. I don't know. SquEnix
is generally pretty good about
playtesting and debugging,
unlike some developers I know
of. <cough>Konami, I love you to
death, but...</cough>

If you find something odd:
Great!

Ah, yes. READ THE FAQ BEFORE
SENDING ME E-MAILS!!!! Duh.
That's what it's there for.
Also, read the section of the
main walkthrough that pertains
to the area in which you are
stuck. If you need to find out
what to do when you run out of
keys, try searching with
keywords like "unlock" or "key".
You'll come across a section
describing the Thief's ability
to "unlock" doors without
"key"s. Isn't Ctrl+F great?

Do not send me spelling
corrections or offers for free
medication.

New rule Final Mix: Don't make
demands, it's irritating

E-mail:
MoogleWarriorVII@yahoo.com

Put 'FF3 Guide' or something of
the sort in the header or I toss
it as spam.

Don't use a subject line like
"You messed up", 'cause that's
just insulting.

Also, don't send mail like this:
Troll Tales (Episode 1):

"hey, I'm writing about that
guide you posted on
gamespot.com, for FFIII for DS.
It sucks...seriously u need to
use better grammar. just delete
the whole thing, it sucks. no
ones even gonna use it after
reading the first sentence. what
a dumb ass."
  --"Jon Rosenberg" <respectandt
    olerance@gmail.com>

You shall be remembered for all
time as a moron. Something tells
me that if the irony in that
username isn't intentional, then
it's a divine message.

I'll have you know that English
is my primary language, I live
in the US, and 'u' is not a
pronoun.

Troll Tales (Episode 2):

"hey, I'm writing about that
guide you posted on
gamespot.com, for FFIII for DS.
It sucks...seriously u need to
use better grammar. just delete
the whole thing, it sucks. no
ones even gonna use it after
reading the first sentence. what
a dumb ass.

P.S. I know that "u" is not a
pronoun"
   --<SkatrElementJ@aol.com> (J
     for Jon Rosenburg,
     perchance?)

If you know that "u" is not a
pronoun, why do you insist on
copying such an abhorrent email
word for word (or Ctrl+C-ing
it)? Please stop stalking me.
Don't make me go all Al Franken
on you.

For the record, the guide's on
GameFAQs, and GameSpot likes to
copy from their sibling site
(that's CNET!).

To all GameSpot users looking to
change the world: Break the
stereotype. Show us your mastery
of the English language. Show us
that you aren't a bunch of
ignorant trolls.

Contributors (The first people
to send me any particular
tidbit): Daniel Li - For sending
me some actually useful info
Stephen Matthews David Roy Derek
Choi Michael Gilliam The seventy
thousand people who told me
where the fourth Dragon Mail was
_________________
[LEGL]Legal Stuff\______________

Final Fantasy III is (c)1990,
2006 Square-Enix Co., Ltd.

This guide is (c)2006 Justin
Reviea (myself), exclusively for
GameFAQs, and, because theyre
the same network, GameSpot.

Do not print the guide and then
toss it. Love it and treasure it
as an heirloom to be passed down
to later generations. Obviously
I can't enforce that. Just play
nice out of courtesy to the
author, okay?
_____________
[TTFN] Thanks\__________________

Thanks to...

GameFAQs, the only walkthrough
site anyone can remember.

Hironobu Sakaguchi, for reasons
I shouldn't have to explain.

Kenji Terada, you wrote them
better than Nojima, and they
didn't even credit you this
time.

Aria, you will always have a
place in my heart.

Doga, for the moogles.

That's about it.

