--------------------------------


===============================
Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time
===============================



Written, compiled, and submitted
by: charmandermaster1015
Console: Nintendo DS (NDS)
Copyright 2006-2008 Karanhaar
Singh. All Rights Reserved.
Version: 1.04


IMPORTANT:

This guide may not be reproduced
under any circumstances except
for personal, private use. It
may not be placed on any web
site or otherwise distributed
publicly without advance written
permission. Use of this guide on
any other web site or as a part
of any public display is
strictly prohibited, and a
violation of copyright.

This walkthrough is best viewed
in Courier New, size 10.


***NOTE: My current email
   address has changed to
   gman7331@gmail.com***


=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
       Table of Contents
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+

Section 1: Controls [s1]


Section 2: Battle Techniques
[s2]

 Part 1: Jumping
 Part 2: Using Hammers
 Part 3: Bro Items


Section 3: Other Basic
Information [s3]

 Part 1: Brother Moves
 Part 2: Leveling Up
 Part 3: Initial strike
 Part 4: Beans


Section 4: Reference Section
[s4]

 Part 1: List of Bro Items and
 Equipment Part 2: List of
 Enemies


Section 5: Walkthrough [s5]

 Part 1: Peaches Castle (first
 visit) [p1] Part 2: Hollijolli
 Village [p2] Part 3: Bowser's
 Star Cruiser [p3] Part 4:
 Peaches Castle (second visit)
 [p4] Part 5: Toadwood Forest
 [p5] Part 6: Shroob's Vim
 Factory [p6] Part 7: Peaches
 Castle [p7] Part 8: Yoshi's
 Island [p8] Part 9: Inside the
 Giant Yoshi [p9] Part 10:
 Peaches Castle [p10] Part 10a:
 Castle Sewers [p10a] Part 11:
 Gritzy Desert [p11] Part 12:
 Koopa Dome [p12] Part 13: Under
 Gritzy Desert [p13] Part 14:
 Peaches Castle [p14] Part 15:
 Thwomp Volcano [p15] Part 16:
 Inside the Volcano [p16] Part
 17: Shroob's Mothership [p17]
 Part 18: Toad Town [p18] Part
 19: Star Hill [p19] Part 20:
 Star Shrine [p20] Part 21:
 Castle Sewers (and Peaches
 Castle) [p21] Part 22: Shroob
 Castle [p22] Part 23: Peaches
 Castle [p23]


Section 6: Credits and Contact
Information [s6]






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
       Section 1: Controls [s1]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+


This section will briefly
explain how to control all of
the characters outside of battle
and in the menus.




A button: The A button is mostly
used to make Mario jump, but it
is also frequently used for
confirming menu selections and
selecting items to use. This
button is definitely the most
common one used in this game.
The A button will also scroll
through speech bubbles and
confirm a status upgrade when
you level up (like power, speed,
etc.).

B Button: The B button is almost
the exact opposite of the A
button. Instead of making Mario
jump like the A button, the B
button will make Luigi Jump. It
will also cancel Menu selections
when you are paused or in
battle. The only similarity
between the B and A button is
the fact that they both scroll
through talking scenes and will
both confirm bonus status
upgrades when you level up.

X Button: The X button is
exactly the same as the A
button, except it makes Baby
Mario jump instead of Mario. If
all four Brothers are together,
the X button will throw the
Babies off the Big Brothers'
backs.

Y Button: The Y button is
exactly the same as the B
button, except it makes Baby
Luigi jump instead of Luigi
(similar to the relation of the
X and a button). If all four
Brothers are together, the Y
button will throw the Babies off
the Big Brothers' backs (same as
X button).



L (shoulder) Button: Pressing
the L button in menus and when
all four Brothers are together
will do absolutely nothing. The
L button is used to switch
powers within a set of Brothers.
This means that if you press the
L button when you only have
control of the Babies, they will
pull out their hammers and not
be able to jump until you put
them away (by pressing L again).
The L button also cancels a
selection when you want to
upgrade one status after you
level up.

R (shoulder) Button: The R
button does the exact same
things as the L button.



D (control) Pad: Pressing the
up, down or either side of the
control pad will move the
Brothers in that specific
direction. You can also use the
control pad to navigate through
menus.



Start: Pressing Start will open
or close your suitcase
(Stuffwell). This button is used
to confirm some menu selections.

Select: Select is not used in
this game.



Touch Screen: There is only one
time when you use the touch
screen in the game, but I won't
mention it here as contains a
spoiler. I will tell you that it
involves rubbing the screen with
your stylus. Make sure your
touch screen is calibrated, or
you may be stuck in one part of
the game!






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
      Section 2: Battle
      Techniques [s2]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+


There are a lot of ways to
improve your battle techniques
so you can beat tough Bosses, so
it is strongly recommended that
you read this section before you
actually go through the
walkthrough.


Part 1: Jumping
---------------

Jumping is your standard attack.
Jumping is also the most common
technique because it deals a
good amount of damage, and can
be used against a great variety
of enemies. DO NOT jump on an
enemy if he has a spike, claw,
or anything else that looks
dangerous on his head. If you do
jump on these types of guys, the
spike or claw will hurt you for
one point of damage. Note that
you can safely jump on the Fly
Guys even if their propellers
look dangerous.

If you want to jump in battle,
select the red block with the
picture of the arrow on it when
it is your turn. Now you will
jump on the enemy, but you will
also notice that you will trip
over and deal little damage.
This is because you have to use
something called an action
command.

For jumping, the action command
is simple as you only have to
press the Brother's button right
when he touches the enemies
head. If you pressed the button
on time, you will deal a lot
more damage and will not trip
over like you did before.

There is a special trick that
you can use if you have all four
Brother together in battle. This
trick will allow both The Baby
and Adult Brother (of either
Mario or Luigi) to jump on the
enemy in only one turn, which I
call Baby bouncing. To do this,
press the Babies attack button
when both of you touch the
enemies head. The Baby will jump
back to his normal spot, but the
Big Brother will flip over and
step on the enemies head again.
When this happens, immediate
press that Brother's button to
deal even more damage! Baby
Bouncing can deal over five
times damage of what normal
jumping (without using the
action command) can do.

When you jump, always use the
action command even if you are
fighting an easy enemy. You may
never know when that extra
damage you deal can be the
difference between dying and
beating a Boss!



Part 2: Using Hammers
---------------------

You will get hammers when you
get around 15% through the game.
When you do, you will have to
use them against enemies that
have spikes or any other
hazardous thing on their head.
Hammers may be weaker than
jumping, but they can be used
against the spiked enemies.
Never use hammers against
airborne enemies at it will
completely miss them (which
means you wasted a turn).

If you want to use your hammer,
select the hammer icon when it
is your turn, and select a
target enemy. When you first
attack the enemy with your
hammer, the hammer's head will
probably fall off causing the
hammer to deal very little
damage. To successfully nail the
action command, press the Baby
Brother's button (X or Y) after
he steps in front of the enemy
when the hammer shakes. If you
pressed the button on time, the
hammer will smash against the
enemy dealing a good amount of
damage. If you did not press the
button on time, the hammer head
will fall off, and you will deal
a lousy 4 or 5 points of damage.

Like jumping, there is a special
technique you can perform if you
have all four Brothers in
battle. To deal this extra
damage, press the Big Brother's
Button (A or B) when the hammer
shakes instead of the Baby
Brother's one (X and Y), and you
will raise the Baby high in the
air. Now the Baby will shake his
hammer again, so press the
Baby's button this time to hit
the enemy.

Remember, Hammers are harder to
use and weaker than normal
jumping, so only use hammers if
you are fighting a spiked enemy.



Part 3: Using Bro Items
-----------------------

There are many Bro Items to be
used in battle. Some may be
stronger than others, but they
are all useful (Ice Flowers are
cheap and very good as they
reduce the enemy's status). This
section will describe all of the
Bro Items you can get and how to
use them properly.



Green Shell
-----------
Attack Power: Low
Difficulty of Usage: Easy
Bonus: None
Target: One


Description: Green Shells will
be the most common item you will
encounter in your quest. You
will find them in many item
blocks as well as from different
enemies.

How to use: Using Green Shells
is like playing ping pong with
your enemy. When you first use
the Green Shell (assuming you
initially throw it with Mario),
it will bounce off the enemy,
and will slowly move to Luigi.
Right before the Green Shell
hits Luigi, press B to kick it
back to the enemy, and it will
bounce back to Mario. Continue
to kick it back and forth, and
it will increase speed after
eight kicks (the word above you
will change from 'OK!' to
'Good!'). If you successfully
kick it eight more times, the
work will change to 'Great!',
and it will move even faster
than before. Continue to kick it
a few more times, and the Shell
will eventually break against
the enemy ending your turn.

If you have all four Brothers
fighting against an enemy, you
can use a special trick to
increase the damage you give.
When you start kicking the Shell
with Mario, Baby Mario will ride
on top of the shell as you kick
it back and forth. To deal this
extra damage, press X right when
the shell hits the enemy to
command Baby Mario to whack him
with his hammer. This may sound
confusing, so I will give you
the sequence of buttons to press
during this attack:

A, X, B, X, A, X, B, X and so
on.

Note that if you originally kick
the shell with Luigi, Baby Luigi
will have to deal the extra
damage except for Baby Mario. If
you are still having trouble
with using shells, try it
without dealing the extra damage
first, and then deal the extra
damage when you can get a
'Great! At least three times in
a row.



Red Shell
---------
Attack Power: High
Difficulty of usage: Easy
Bonus: None
Target: Successive


Description: Red Shells are
exactly like Green Shells,
except they are a lot more
powerful and can last forever.
These items are sometimes found
when you kill enemies, but you
will mostly find them in item
boxes near the end of the game.

How to use: Use Red Shells the
same way as Green Shells.



Bro Flower
----------
Attack Power: Moderate
Difficulty of Usage: Easy
Bonus: Burn
Target: All


Description: Bro Flowers are
your standard Bro Item that can
cause a nasty burn. They are
fairly cheap and can deal a good
amount of damage if you can use
them correctly. Some enemies are
even weak to fireballs, you can
do double the damage the them!
Beware that other enemies are
resistant to fire.

How to use: First, select the
Bro Flowers from your bag, and
be prepared to button mash.
Assuming you started to attack
the enemy with Mario, rapidly
press the A button to throw
fireballs. When you see the red
fireball move to Luigi (and the
blue one goes to Mario), rapidly
press the B button (or you won't
deal any more damage). The red
fireball will move from Mario to
Luigi at random times, so keep
your ears opened for the beep
that indicates that the red
Fireball switched Brothers.

As I said before, some enemies
are weak and resistant to
Fireballs, so only use Fireballs
against enemies if they are not
resistant to them or you will
only deal 1 point of damage! If
you threw Fireballs at an enemy
that is weak to them, you will
deal double your usual damage
(you will see the word
'Critical!' when you do). If you
burnt the enemy, he will not be
able to attack for a few turns
and will receive damage during
that time per turn.

If you want to attack enemies
flying in the air, you have to
press the Baby's Button when the
Fireball is with their bigger
selves. Throwing Fireballs with
the Babies is weaker than
throwing them with the Big
Brothers, so use them only if
the other enemies are flying in
the air (not when they are on
the ground).



Ice Flower
----------
Attack Power: Moderate
Difficulty of usage: Easy Bonus:
Random down (It will sometimes
lower the enemy's status)
Target: All


Description: Just like the Bro
Flowers, the Ice Flowers also
have enemies that are weak and
critical to them. What makes Ice
Flowers better than Bro Flowers
is their ability to lower the
enemy's status. This means that
you can make a Boss battle a lot
easier for you if you lower
their attack and defense.

How to use: Use Ice Flowers the
same way as Bro Flowers.



Smash Egg
---------
Attack Power: Moderate
Difficulty of Usage: Moderate
Bonus: Dizzy (and a random item
if you successfully used up the
egg) Target: All


Description: Smash Eggs are
fairly hard to use at first, but
when you learn how to use them,
you can deal tons of damage to
the enemy. They are mostly found
in Yoshi's Island (any surprise
there?).

How to use: After you select
Smash Eggs from your items bag
(with Mario), press A to kick
the egg to the enemy and into
the air. Now hold the B button
down as the egg flies in the
air, and release the button when
the egg gets about halfway down
the bottom screen. If you kick
at the right time, the Egg
should smash into the enemy and
fly to Mario again (hold down
the A button before you kick it
again). Continue to smash the
enemies with these eggs, and it
will break after you get the
'Great!' comment. If you are
lucky, you will get a 1-Up Super
or a 1-Up Mushroom from the Egg,
but half the time, you will get
nothing.

Unsurprisingly, there is a trick
to use if you have all four
Brothers fight the enemy to
cause more damage. To do this
trick, throw the Egg at the
enemy for the first time to hit
the enemy, but press Y instead
of B when it reaches Luigi
(which will make Baby Luigi hit
the egg). This will throw the
egg higher into the air as it
soars back to Mario. Like you
did before, press X instead of A
to hit the egg with the Baby
again, and this will cause the
egg to move an insanely fast
speed to Luigi. Now kick the egg
when it reaches Luigi so it hits
the enemy for almost double the
normal damage. Note that you
have to kick slightly earlier
because the egg is moving at a
faster speed.



Pocket Chomps
-------------
Attack Power: High
Difficulty of Usage: Moderate
Bonus: None
Target: All


Description: Pocket Chomps are
undoubtedly one of the best Bro
Items in the game! If you know
how to use them correctly, you
can deal hundreds and even
thousands of damage to enemies
and Bosses.

How to use: Make sure you use
Mario to select this attack
item, and press A to throw a
giant Chain Chomp from the small
ball. Now it will start to chase
either Mario or Luigi as you run
past enemies. As you pass the
enemy, make sure you press A (or
B if Luigi is present) right
when you touch the enemies head
to deal damage and to continue
go to the next enemy after you
turn around. Continue to press
the Brother's button when he
jumps on different enemies to do
more damage. One wonderful
property of the Pocket Chomp is
that it gives you a second or
even third chance if you
accidentally miss a jump
command. Unfortunately, when you
miss an action command, you will
trip and get closer to the Chain
Chomp. There are no known
differences between the normal
Chain Chomps and the Chain
Chomps with the pink bow on its
head. If you trip and get bitten
by the Chain Chomp, your turn
will end.

The trick to use if you have all
four Brothers may be tricky, but
not as distracting as the
shells. As all four Brothers,
you will notice that the Babies
will sit on the top and on the
back of the Chain Chomp as it
chases each Brother. To deal the
extra damage, press the Baby's
button (only press the Baby's
button if he is sitting in the
back of the Chain Chomp NOT on
top), and he will spin hammer
the enemy. Note that it is
pointless to spin hammer if the
enemy flies in the air as all
attempts will miss. If you
accidentally press the button of
the Baby on the Chain Chomp's
head, he will hit the chomp
causing him to chase the Big
Brothers a little faster than
usual.



Cannonballer
------------
Attack Power: Moderate
Difficulty of Usage: Easy
Bonus: None
Target: One


Description: Cannonballers will
be found early in the game, so
they are your best weapon for
the first few Bosses. Although
they give no bonus, they can
deal a crapload of damage if you
ate a pair of Red Peppers.
Sadly, Cannonballers are fairly
expensive at 70 coins each.

How to Use: After selecting the
Cannonballer with either Mario
or Luigi, all four Brothers will
be put in a large cannon. After
a brief delay, all of the
Brothers will be fired from the
cannon to the target enemy's
head. Watch the Brothers as they
shoot out of the cannon as you
will have to press their
corresponding buttons to
successfully nail the action
command. The order in which the
Brothers will come out of the
cannon is completely random.



Trampoline
----------
Attack Power: High
Difficulty of Usage: Hard
Bonus: Dizzy
Target: All


Description: Trampolines may be
expensive and tricky to use, but
they sure are powerful. The
added possibility of making the
enemy dizzy will definitely
encourage people to use
Trampolines more often.

How to Use: Use Mario to select
the Trampoline from the Bro Item
list like usual, and press A to
start to jump up the trampoline.
When all four Brothers are in
the air, look at who falls from
the sky, get your finger over
his Button, and press it when he
jumps on the enemy's head. If
you successfully jumped on the
enemy, you will get back on the
trampoline and into the air.
Repeat this for all of the
upcoming Brothers as they fall
on their enemies (it will be
completely random), and you will
deal tons of damage. The thing
that makes this attack item
difficult to use is the fact
that it is hard to tell which
enemy each Brother aims form as
they drop down. This means that
Trampolines are best used
against a single tough Boss. If
you miss an action command, the
Brother will trip down causing
the turn to end (you can deal
damage with the other Brother as
they fall, but only once more
for each).



Copy Flowers
------------
Attack Power: High
Difficulty of Usage: Hard
Bonus: None
Target: Successive


Description: Copy Flowers are
considered the most powerful
item in the game if you can time
your jumps quickly and properly.
They may be expensive, but you
have no need of buying any as
you will find tons of them from
item boxes during your quest.

How to use: Copy Flowers are
fairly similar to Trampolines,
except you only go for one
target at a time and the Brother
move much faster. So press the
Brother's button when he jumps
on the enemy, and continue
pressing the correct button with
the other copies moving from the
left. The good thing about Copy
Flowers is that they deal tons
of damage to one specific enemy,
so they are perfect to use
against Bosses or other enemies
in small groups. If you miss one
action command, you will
automatically end your turn with
no second chance.



Mix Flowers
-----------
Attack Power: High
Difficulty of Usage: Moderate
Bonus: Burn
Target: All


Description: Mix Flowers are
definitely considered the best
item in the game, as they can
deal tons of damage to all of
the enemies. Another good thing
about the Mix Flowers is that
throwing the fireballs is a lot
easier to do than timing
yourselves with Copy Flowers.
Unfortunately, this means that
Mix Flowers are the most
expensive item in the game at
180 coins.

How to Use: When you first use
Mix Flowers as Mario, you will
notice that you will have to
throw fireballs like you had to
do with Bro Flowers. Instead of
throwing the fireballs at random
enemies, you will throw all of
them at a giant fireball in the
center of the air to power it up
(it will increase in size as you
throw more fireballs). Unlike
Bro Flowers, Mix Flowers
requires the use of all Brothers
to throw the fireballs. So throw
the fireballs the same way as
you did as Bro Flowers, but make
sure you watch out as the
fireball moves to one of the
other three Brothers. If you
throw them quickly enough, the
giant fireball in the upper
screen will stay up. After you
miss hitting the giant fireball
for a couple of times, it will
crash down to the enemies
dealing a great amount of damage
to all of them (maximum amount
is 999).






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
      Section 3: Reference
      Section [s3]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+


This section will contain lists
of Mushrooms, Bro Items and
Equipment that you will
encounter throughout the game. I
will also list the base prices
of each item (if you can buy
them at the store). All of the
coin values will be modified by
your Stache Points (which will
get you some nice discounts).


Items
-----
Mushroom            (10 coins)
Super Mushroom      (20 Coins)
Ultra Mushroom      (40 Coins)
Max Mushroom        (80 Coins)
Mushroom Drop       (20 Coins)
Super Drop          (50 Coins)
Ultra Drop          (100 Coins)
1-Up Mushroom       (60 Coins)
1-Up Super          (120 Coins)
Refreshing Herb     (15 Coins)
Red Pepper          (80 Coins)
Green Pepper        (40 Coins)
Blue Pepper         (20 Coins)



Bro Items
---------
Green Shell         (10 coins)
Red Shell           (80 Coins)
Bro Flower          (20 Coins)
Ice Flower          (20 Coins)
Smash Egg           (40 Coins)
Pocket Chomp        (70 Coins)
Cannonballer        (40 Coins)
Trampoline          (120 Coins)
Copy Flower         (160 Coins)
Mix Flower          (180 Coins)



Clothing
--------
Starchy Jeans       (90 Coins)
Patched Slacks      (120 Coins)
Preferred Pants     (280 Coins)
Branded Slacks      (350 Coins)
Egg Pants           (450 Coins)
Shell Slacks        (560 Coins)
Royal Pants         (800 Coins)
Royal Trousers      (950 Coins)


These Clothes can be found in
the store in Toad Town:

Mushroom Jeans      (560 Coins)
Stardust Pants      (600 Coins)
Shroom Slacks       (650 Coins)
Star Trousers       (700 Coins)


The following Clothes can only
be found in item blocks:

Unarmed Jeans
Wild Trousers
Heart Pants
Puffy Trousers
Secret Jeans
Adult Trousers
Golden Pants
Block Trousers
Stache Jeans
Para Slacks
Rocket Jeans
Space Trousers
100-Point Pants
Supreme Slacks



Badges
------
Training Badge      (80 Coins)
Pep Badge           (100 Coins)
Easy Badge          (100 Coins)
Salvage Badge       (140 Coins)
Wallet Badge        (200 Coins)
Coin Badge          (300 Coins)
EXP Badge           (350 Coins)
Big-DEF Badge       (400 Coins)
Shroom Badge        (400 Coins)
Big-POW Badge       (450 Coins)
Cure Badge          (500 Coins)
Shroom Badge A      (600 Coins)
Drain Badge         (600 Coins)
Counter Badge       (700 Coins)
Cure Badge A        (700 Coins)
Lucky Badge         (700 Coins)
Drain Badge A       (800 Coins)
Cash-Back Badge     (800 Coins)


These Badges can be found in
Fawful's Bean Shop:

1-Chance Badge      (10 Beans)
Pummel Badge        (20 Beans)
Stomp Badge         (30 Beans)
Rough Badge         (40 Beans)
Coin Badge A        (50 Beans)
Treasure Badge      (60 Beans)
EXP Badge A         (70 Beans)
Ulti-Free Badge     (90 Beans)


These Badges can be found in the
store in Toad Town:

Safety Badge        (800 Coins)
Risk Badge          (700 Coins)
Salvage Badge A     (600 Coins)


The following Badges can only be
found in item blocks:

Lucky Badge A
Dire-POW Badge
Dire-Free Badge
Hit-POW Badge
Hit-Free Badge
Dynamic Badge
Dynamic Badge A
Lucky Badge A






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
      Section 4: Other Basic
      Information [s4]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+


This section will briefly
explain the other information
you should know before starting
to read the walkthrough.



Part 1: Brother Moves
---------------------

There are quite a few new
Brother Moves you should know,
but they will be explained in
the walkthrough. Look for the
Tutorial sections (separated by
a line of '*'s) if you want a
detailed description of each
technique. Here is the list of
techniques you will learn in
order of appearance:

Hammer Moves
Spin Jump
Bro Roll
Spinning Babies
Baby Cakes

You will have to use these
techniques frequently during
your quest to save the princess,
so learn them well!



Part 2: Leveling Up
-------------------

The leveling process is pretty
much the same in Super Saga
(each status randomly raises by
1 to 5) with a bonus raise. I
recommend you to upgrade HP,
Power, Defense, or Stache, but
it is entirely up to you. When
you select a status, a spinner
will start to spin showing you
different numbers, try to get
the highest number (6 is the
highest) to get the best
increase. Remember, you should
always rotate when upgrading
your status. If you continuously
upgrade one status on all your
characters, they will turn out
much weaker than they should be!



Part 3: Initial strike
----------------------

Striking your enemy initially is
very important if you want to
shorten your battle. To do this,
you can simply jump on the
enemies head to deal damage to
all of them before the battle
even starts. If you want, you
can hammer the enemies to get
them dizzy when the battle
starts, but you can only do this
with the Baby Brothers



Part 4: Beans
-------------

You may have noticed that there
are tons of X markers around the
entire map. Each of these
markers contains a bean each
(which can only be dug out after
you learned the Hammer Moves).
You should collect beans because
they will be very useful when
you want to buy badges from
Fawful's Bean Shop (he has some
of the best badges including the
Ulti-Free Badge). If you want to
quickly find a bean in my guide,
simply search for the term
'*BEAN*'. There are well over
150 Beans in the entire game (I
personally found 150, but I may
be missing some).






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
      Section 5: Walkthrough
      [s5]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+


This is it, the walkthrough that
will guide you through the game.
This walkthrough was written in
a specific format as follows:



>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> The text outside
of the (~) will contain
information that will get you
through different rooms and
areas. Areas are usually
separated by paragraphs (with
some exceptions).


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Battle: Enemy will be named here
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Difficulty of the
enemy Health: How many Hit
Points the enemy has (this is
not an exact value) Experience
Points: How many Experience
Points you get from each enemy


This text will describe the
enemy, how to defeat it, and how
it compares to similar enemies.

Possible Items Obtained: What
treasures you can get from this
enemy (it will list none if you
cannot get anything).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


I will continue to write how to
get through different areas
after I describe the enemy.
There will only be one
description section for each
enemy as it will waste space if
I copy and paste the
descriptions through different
areas. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

Although I tried to remove as
many plot spoilers as possible
(I do not describe the cut
scenes), I had to include some
minor spoilers for guide
completion. Because this is my
first attempt for writing an
RPG, some parts may be
confusing. If this is the case,
please drop me an email and I
will try to fix the problem
ASAP.

Now without further ado, the
walkthrough!



The story starts with creepy
aliens invading Mushroom
Kingdom. Watch the rest of the
starting scene, and you will
begin your adventure as Baby
Mario and Baby Luigi in the
castle (present time). Listen to
young Toadsworth and walk up the
stairs to the next room. In
here, continue to walk up, and
you will see three dead Toads as
you walk further up. Now Baby
Bowser will come out with the
princess and burn up Toadsworth.
When the Babies try to get back
the Baby Princess, Baby Bowser
will begin to fight you.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------------------
Tutorial Battle: Baby Bowser
----------------------------

Difficulty: Very Easy
Health: 8
Experience Points: 0


The battle against Baby Bowser
is actually a tutorial battle
that will teach you how to
perform action commands. Listen
to Toadsworth after you jump on
Baby Bowser for the first time,
and he will tell you how jump on
his head for extra damage by
pressing X (or the other
Brothers' button) right when you
jump on his head. This action
command is very useful as it
will triple the damage you would
normally give.

You can also dodge Bowser's
flame attack by jumping over it
right after he spits it out.
Attack Baby Bowser for a few
more times, and he will finally
get killed.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing Baby Bowser, watch
the next (and fairly long) cut
scene, and you will be moved to
present time where everybody is
as old as they should be
(Princess Peach is an adult,
etc.). Finish some more talking,
and Mario will be sent to get a
Refreshroom for the fainted
Toadsworth (you need to control
him). So head down to the next
room, and go to the bottom of
this room to see a Save Block
(you don't need to hit the
restore block). Save your
progress, and go left to the
next room. Before you continue
to get to the Mushroom, you
should get some goodies first.
So in this long room, get the
coin from the '?' block to your
left, and go up to see two more
'?' blocks. Get the Mushroom
from the left one and the coin
from the right one, and go to
the room to your upper left.
Head straight down for three
more rooms until you are at the
bottom of the third one. Go
through the door to your left
(slightly facing diagonally up),
and hit the '?' block in the
middle of the room to get the
Refreshroom.

Now with the Refreshroom in
stock, go back to the middle
room with the Fallen Toadsworth,
and watch another short cut
scene as he gets revived. Soon,
Mario will be thrown in a battle
against a weird looking green
monster (Junior Shrooboid).


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Tutorial Battle: Junior
Shrooboid
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Very Easy
Health: 13
Experience Points: 6


Like the battle against Baby
Bowser, this is another easy
tutorial battle. Jump on the
Shrooboid like you did to Baby
Bowser (using A instead of X
because you are Mario) so you
can succeed with the action
command. Shrooboid will now try
to spin into you. If you jump
right before he hits you, you
will dodge his attack, but WAIT!
If you want to counter attack
the beast, jump right before he
starts to move foreword (not
when he starts to spin). If you
timed yourself correctly, you
will jump on him right before he
hits you causing him to take
damage (Toadsworth also explains
this). Keep on attacking the
green monster until he dies, and
you will get 6 Experience Points
and level up to level 2.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Watch another short cut scene
and you will be able to control
both Mario and Luigi (like in
Super Saga). Now that you are
free to walk around, go down to
the next room, and hit the heart
block to your right (if you took
damage in your previous battle)
to heal up. Save with the Save
Block, and go down to the garden
to watch the cut scene.






================================
      Hollijolli Village (past)
      [p2]
================================


After the Brothers enter the
strange time hole, you will go
into Hollijolli Village (past).
In this strange Village, listen
to Stuffwell, and it will show
you how to get to your item
stash. Follow Stuffwell's
instructions on how to select
Items, Equipment, and Bro Stats,
and he will bring you to the top
screen. After Stuffwell stops
talking, the time hole will
close leaving Both Mario and
Luigi alone in the village. Walk
right, and hit the Save Block to
save your progress.

Walk to the next part of the
Village, and Stuffwell will
begin to talk again soon. Listen
to the annoying bag and jump up
the steps to your right (you can
make Mario and Luigi jump at the
same time if you want to). After
you pass two steps, walk up and
left to the platform with the
'?' block, and hit it to get 2
Mushrooms. Walk right to the
next platform to get 5 coins by
rapidly hitting the block, and
finally get the useful 1-Up
Mushroom from the third plateau.
Continue to walk right staying
on the upper ledge, and
Stuffwell will teach you how to
jump past gaps. So jump past
three small gaps by making the
Brothers jump at the same time,
and you will enter an area with
a bunch of Mario and Luigi
blocks (they all contain a
single lousy coin). Use Mario to
hit the two 'M' blocks, and
Luigi to hit the trio of 'L'
blocks. After getting the coins
from the blocks, walk up the
stairs to your upper right to
get to the upper grassy area.

In here, continue to walk left,
and Mario will soon be hit by a
random falling Toad from the
sky. Watch the rest of the cut
scene, and go up the wooden
bridge to your left after it
ends. Soon you will see some
Shrooblets walking on the
Mushroom and the annoying
Briefcase will explain them to
you. Use Mario to jump on one of
the Shrooblets as Stuffwell will
tell you to, and you will enter
the battle after dealing some
initial damage. Note that if you
simply walk into the Shrooblets,
you will start the battle
normally, and if you are facing
your back to the enemy when he
touches you, you might trip when
you start the battle making you
immobile for a few turns.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Shrooblet
----------------

Difficulty: Very Easy
Health: 7
Experience Points: 2

These little buggers will come
in pairs when they attack you.
Like the Junior Shrooboid, they
will attack you by running into
you (which allows for a counter
attack). When you fight the
first Shrooblet, Stuffwell will
show you how to control both
Brothers in battle (use A for
Mario and B for Luigi). So
counter their attacks and
perform good action commands and
you will beat the Shrooblets in
two turns.

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating the first
Shrooblet, kill two more on the
Mushroom you are standing on,
and continue up the wooden
bridge to the next Mushroom.
Kill another Shrooblet, and walk
up the pair of ladders to your
right. Now as you continue to go
past the Mushrooms, you will
hear some strange sounds in your
distance, and Luigi will be hit
by a falling Shrooblet.
Stuffwell will pop out again and
explain to you about taking
damage and how to use items. So
press Start when indicated, and
use a Mushroom on Luigi located
in the items stash. After
healing your green ally, press B
a few times to exit your item
stash, and to quit the menu. Now
that Stuffwell is gone, continue
to go up the wooden bridge to
your left, and kill the pair of
Shrooblets that reside there.
Walk up one last wooden bridge,
and you will land on a giant
Mushroom with three Shrooblets.
After killing them, walk to the
right of the large Mushroom to
pass by the short bridge and to
enter the actual city.

In here, watch one more short
cut scene, walk to the upper
right, and enter the first house
you see in front of you. Now get
the coin from the '?' block in
the upper left corner of the
room, and the three Mushrooms
from the M block to your right.
Exit the house and continue to
walk right until you see the
house in the intersection. Enter
the house and save your progress
with the Save Block there. After
saving, exit the house again,
and take the left path to get to
the back of another house where
an L block resides. Use Luigi to
get the ten coins, and take the
lower right path when you get
back to the intersection, and
get to the house underneath the
broken one. In here, use Luigi
to rapidly hit the L block to
get some 10-coin pieces, and get
another 10-coin piece from the
'!' block below it. Get back out
of the house, navigate back to
the main intersection, and enter
the house after you follow the
upper right path. This house is
the Mayor's, and he will be
stuck in the chimney in the back
of the house. Listen to the
Mayor as he speaks, and jump in
the fireplace to make the Mayor
pop out of the chimney outside
his house. Watch the rest of the
cut scene, and get back outside
the house when he cries for
help. You will shortly be thrown
into a battle with adult
Shroobs.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------
Boss Battle: Three Shroobs
--------------------------

Difficulty: Impossible
Health: 18 each
Experience Points: 0


It is impossible to win this
boss battle, because a giant
saucer will kill both Mario and
Luigi after three turns. So
before you get killed, fight
like a hero and try to kill one
of the Shroobs. When the Shroobs
attach, they will use a laser
gun to shoot one of the
Brothers. To dodge the lasers,
make both Brothers jump at the
same time right after the Shroob
shoots (you will know when the
gun stops spinning). You can
tell which Brother the Shroob is
aiming for by looking at the gun
before it fires. If the gun
sparkles, the Shroob will aim
for Mario, or else it will aim
for Luigi. After you hopefully
kill one Shroob, the saucer
above you will shoot a giant
laser ball at both of the
Brothers causing them to die.
Try not to get angry when the
remaining Shroobs tease you, and
watch another cut scene that
takes place in Baby Bowser's
ship with the Baby Brothers.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






================================
       Bowser's Star Cruiser
       [p3]
================================

After the Babies stop crying,
you be in control of the Babies
on the bridge. Start to walk
across the bridge, and a Koopa
Guard will show you how to make
the Babies jump (X for Baby
Mario and Y for Baby Luigi). So
jump across the crates like the
guard told you to, but make sure
you get the Mushroom from the
'?' block above the second lone
crate. Continue to jump across
the masses of crates, grab the
coin from another '?' block, and
talk to the second Guard to
learn how to jump across gaps
(although you really don't need
it). Climb up the crate stairs
in front of you, jump across the
gaps, and you will see some M
and L blocks (doesn't this
routine seem familiar?). Get 10
coins and a Mushroom from the M
blocks, and a 1 Up Mushroom and
a Mushroom Drop from the L ones.
Jump off of the bridge after you
get the goodies, and go up the
rest of the pathway to get to
the second part of the long
bridge.

Like before, jump over the
crates as you walk (left this
time), get the coin from the '?'
on the second cluster of crates,
and use the stair of crates to
get past the large cluster. Walk
across the last stretch of the
bridge, save with the Save
Block, and go up the stairs to
your left to meet up with Baby
Bowser and Princess Peach. Watch
the long cut scene with Baby
Bowser willingly helping out the
Big Bros, and you will be left
outside sent to save them. Back
as the Babies, walk back to the
front of the Mayors house, watch
a short cut scene, and you will
fight a battle against two
Shroobs.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------------
Boss Battle: Two Shroobs
------------------------

Difficulty: Easy
Health: 18
Experience Points: 6


Unlike the last battle against
the Shroobs, this one can be
won. Use the X and Y buttons
(don't forget!) to attack the
first Shroob, and Young
Toadsworth will give you 5 Green
Shells. Now make Baby Mario
select the Shell icon at his
turn, and use a Green Shell to
attack the first Shroob again.
To use a shell, first press X to
release the shell, and it will
bounce off the Shroob and head
to Baby Luigi. Press Y to make
the little tyke kick it, and it
will bounce off the Shroob and
head back to Baby Mario. Keep
kicking it in this way, it will
get faster and faster, and the
word will switch from OK to Good
and eventually to Great (I know
it sound repetitive from my
other section, but I am just
explaining what Toadsworth is
telling you). If you miss
kicking the shell, it will go
away from the battle. Don't
worry if this happens as young
Toadsworth will give you a Green
Shell after every turn. Keep
attacking the Shroobs in this
way until they die so you can
successfully avenge the Big
Brothers.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now listen as Young Toadsworth
talks about how the town got
attacked, and he will bring you
back to Baby Bowser's ship.
Watch the rest of this long cut
scene, and you will end up in
Bowser's castle when the ship
crashes. Save with the Save
Block to your right, and
continue your adventure by
across the path to your right.
Now you will enter the part of
Bowser's castle that is over a
giant pool of lava. Start by
getting the two Mushrooms from
the '?' block, and the 8 eight
Green Shells from the L one. Go
across the first bridge, and
stomp on the Goomba to enter
another battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------
Enemy: Goomba
-------------

Difficulty: Very Easy
Health: 10
Experience Points: 3

Goombas act exactly like
Shrooblets, except they are
faster and have a bit more
health. Attack the Goombas by
jumping on them to save your
stock of Green Shells, and
counter their attacks by jumping
right when they start running
towards you. Finish up both
Goombas (they are sometimes
found in pairs), grab your
experience points, and you may
even get some bonus Mushrooms!

Possible Items obtained:
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Take the pathway down to fight
another Goomba, go right across
another bridge when you do, and
hit the M block for a 1-Up
Mushroom. Get back to the
intersection, and go right and
up to get to another '?' block.
Hit the block to get 4 Green
Shells, and kill the Goomba to
your right. Continue across the
rest of the path, and you will
eventually move on to the part
of the level with a very small
bridge above you.

Instead of jumping straight to
the bridge above you, you should
fight the Goombas to your right
to build up your experience and
fighting skills. So ignore the
bridge for now and continue to
walk right, and you will be able
to fight 4 Goombas (7 in
battle). You can also get a pair
of Mushrooms and a blue coin
from the '?' blocks in the
middle of the area. After
getting the goodies, walk back
to the left side of the level,
and use the three steps to the
upper left corner of the screen
to get on the bridge. Carefully
walk across the bridge (DO NOT
jump sections to try to get a
shortcut or you will fall), jump
over the gap in the middle of
the bridge, and you will
eventually get to the platform
at the end of the bridge. Go
through the door in front of you
to get to the next area, and
jump to the low red bridge when
you are here. Watch the cut
scene involving the Big Bros
meeting up with the Little
Tykes, and you will regain
control of Mario and Luigi. Jump
to the steps to your left, and
the Babies will start to cry.
Listen to Stuffwell as he talks
about the Babies, and run into
them to put them on your back.
Now you can control the Big and
the Baby Brothers at the same
time! Continue your adventure by
going across the stairs to your
left, and press the giant blue
switch (with the Babies still on
your back) to your left to open
up the giant door in front of
you. Go through the door to get
to the next area.

In here, make Mario and Luigi
step in front of the tall ledge
facing right, and press X or Y
to throw the Babies on the
ledge. Now in control of the
Babies, walk right, and hit the
block that has a picture of a
pipe on it (a regroup block) to
make Mario and Luigi appear next
to you. Make the Babies run into
the Big Bros, and use all four
siblings to step on another blue
switch to open up another door
that leads to an area with lots
of blocks. Now throw the Babies
off your back by pressing X or
Y, and make the Tykes walk
through the small tunnel in
front of you. In this small
room, jump on the wooden bench
to your left, hit the M block
rapidly to get 80 coins (is
contains 10-coin pieces), and
hit the L block to get a 1-Up
Mushroom. Get out of the room
when you are done, and climb
back on Mario and Luigi's back
to become a group of four again.
Now walk right to the center of
the room, and hit all of the
blocks to get a bunch of
goodies. The first two '?'
blocks contain a coin and a
Green Shell, and the M and L
blocks that follow contain a
Mushroom drop and a few coins
(you have to rapidly hit the M
block for this one). The last
two '?' blocks contain two
Mushrooms for the upper one and
a bunch of coins for the lower
one. After getting all of the
goodies, press the large blue
switch ahead of you to open up
yet another door.

This area contains many tall
ledges and will require you to
frequently throw the Babies off
your backs. So walk to the first
ledge right in front of you, and
throw the Babies on top of it.
Ignore the Save Block for now,
and hit the regroup block to
your far left to bring the Big
Brothers on the same ledge as
the Babies. Climb on their
backs, and then save with the
Save Block to the right of the
ledge. After saving, walk back
left to the side of another
ledge, and throw the Babies so
they land on the red platform
above you. Hit the purple '!'
block directly to your left to
bring the red platform halfway
down to the second ledge, and
press A or B to take control of
the Big Brothers. As Mario and
Luigi, jump to the third ledge
using the red platform as a
boost, pick up the Little Tykes,
and press the Blue Switch to
open up another door.

After you go through this door,
Kamek will come out and will
force you to battle a Goomba and
a Boo.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Tutorial Battle: Boos and
Goombas
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Easy Health: 14 for
Goombas, 15 for the Boos
Experience Points: 3 for
Goombas, 7 for Boos


In this battle, Stuffwell will
teach you some piggyback moves
to use against the Boo. So
follow Stuffwell's instructions
and jump to the Boo. Press X to
make Baby Mario attack first,
and A when Mario land on him
shortly after. Use the same
attack using Luigi except use Y
and B instead of X and A. After
you have killed the Boo, Kamek
will come out and throw out a
Goomba for you to fight.

Now Stuffwell will teach you how
to use Bros Items with the
Babies to aid you. Follow his
instructions, and make Mario
select a Green Shell. Now when
you attack the Goomba with the
Green Shell, you will notice
that Baby Mario will be riding
the shell as you kick it. This
means that you can deal extra
damage to the Goomba by pressing
X right when you hit him. I
personally recommend you not to
use the Baby for extra damage
too much as it will distract you
from the kicking and may cause
you to miss the shell (I found
it best to only deal the extra
damage for the first four
kicks). After the Green Shell
disappears, Stuffwell will force
Luigi to use up another one.
Attack the Goomba the same way
as you did before, except use Y
to deal the extra damage as Baby
Luigi is riding the shell this
time.

After this shell expires,
Stuffwell will leave you to
attack another Goomba and Boo
after Kamek summons them. Use
the shell to attack the Goomba
if you wish, but DO NOT use it
for the Boo!! As you can see,
the Boo is floating from the
ground, so it is impervious from
shells. When the Boo attacks
you, he will disappear after a
second, and try to hit you from
behind. This might be surprising
at first but you will get the
hang of it after a turn or two.
To counter attack the Boo, jump
a split second after Boo appears
right behind you to hit his
head. Finish up the Boo (using
the piggyback attack of course),
and you will finally finish your
battle against Kamek's minions.
To top it off, the Big Brothers
will also level up!

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom (from Boo)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After Kamek flies away from her
horrible defeat, climb up the
stairs, walk across the wooden
bridge, and hit the '?' block
for a Green Shell. Jump on the
Boo to your left to get into
another battle with another new
enemy, the Boom Guy!


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Boom Guy
---------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 18
Experience Points: 6

The Boom Guy looks like a Shy
Guy with a cannon on its head.
You can easily kill him by using
a Green Shell, but practice
dodging his attacks because you
need to develop those dodging
skills of yours. Attack the Boo
first, and the Boom guy will
walk up to you after the first
turn. The Boom Guy has two
attacks: a delayed Bullet
attack, and a fast Bullet
attack. When he is near you,
jump when the cannon is about to
fire, and you will automatically
jump off the bullet if he fires
a fast one. If a puff of smoke
comes out, quickly jump again to
dodge the slower bullet that
will come out very shortly. Keep
dodging the bullets in this way,
and jump on his head to knock
off his cannon. The Shy Guy will
still be alive after you knock
out his cannon, but he cannot do
anything until he calls for
another one (it is around a 50%
chance that he will get another
cannon at his turn). After you
kill the Shy Guy and the Boo,
the battle will end and you will
gain some experience!

Battle Tip: When you hop on the
Boo, you will be thrown into a
battle against two Boom Guys and
Boos. This foursome can be quite
dangerous, so use the Green
Shells to kill off the Boom Guys
after you counter the Boos'
attacks. After both Boom Guys
are killed, go for the Boos as
they pose less of a threat. Stay
with this battle as you will get
quite a bit of Experience points
if you win! Remember; use Green
Shells if there are two or more
Boom Guys.


Possible Items Obtained: Green
Shell
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Walk across the rest of the
bridge, kill another two Boos
and Boom Guys for experience,
and go to the lower left corner
to get to the area with the pipe
that leads to the second part of
the castle. Walk up to the blue
pipe, jump on it with all four
Brothers to go down, and you
will pop up in the second part
of Bowser's castle.

Jump off the pipe here, and save
your progress with the Save
Block to your left. Continue
walking across the path to the
upper right to get to the next
area. Now hit the '?' block near
you to get a pair of Green
Shells, and walk to the ledge to
the right side near the wall.
Throw the Baby Brothers to the
ledge above you, and make them
go through the door to get to a
small cave. Here, simply hit the
purple '!' block to make the
bridge near the Big Brothers
grow. Control the Babies to make
them get back to Mario and
Luigi, and walk across the
bridge when you are in a group
of four again. Across the
bridge, press the large blue
switch to open the door, and
enter it to get to the next area
of this large castle. Go to the
ledge to your upper right again,
and throw the Tykes to the ledge
to get into another cave.

After you enter the cave, hit
the purple '!' switch to make
another bridge form, but don't
go back to the Big Brothers yet!
Instead, get the 1-Up Mushroom
from the '?' block to your
right, and kill the two pairs of
Goombas walking around in the
right section of the tunnel (it
will take a little longer
because the Babies are weaker
than the Big Bros). After you
kill the enemies, get the two
10-coin pieces from the '?'
block to add 20 coins to your
coin stash, and walk until you
are near the step that is
slightly lower than the other
ones. Press A to gain control of
the Big Brothers, and the
annoying Briefcase will pop out
again when you see two multi-
colored blocks (Split Blocks).
Tell Stuffwell you understand
how to activate the block to
save time, and align yourself so
Luigi is under the solid block
and Mario is under the flashing
one. Now make Luigi hit the
Solid block (the one to the
left), and quickly make Mario
hit the flashing one when it
turns solid (you can use either
Brother to hit the first block,
it doesn't really matter). If
you hit the Split Blocks
correctly, the energy from the
blocks will create another step
in the cave the Babies are in.
Now make the Babies jump up the
stair case, and move them so
they are under the Split Blocks
like you did for the Big
Brothers. Use Baby Luigi to hit
the solid block, and Baby Mario
to hit the flashing one when it
turns solid. You will see one of
the platforms to your far right
descend. Now get out of the
small cave through the left
door, and climb on the Big
Brothers' backs to continue your
adventure. Continue to walk
right, but don't climb up the
platforms yet. Like you did at
the long and skinny bridge area,
kill the enemies on the ground
to gain experience.

Beware of the flying bullets
from the Boom Guy before you
enter the second battle (if you
get hit from the back, you can
trip!) Kill the pair of Boom
Guys in this battle, and hit the
'?' block to your right to get
two more coins. Now go a little
bit back, and hop up the
platforms to get to the upper
ledge. Quickly dodge the bullet
from another Boom Guy, and kill
the trio of Boom Guys when you
enter the battle. After killing
the Boom Guys, walk to the wall
above you, and throw the Babies
to the ledge. Don't enter the
cave in front of you as it will
only lead you back to the cave
with the second set of Split
Blocks. Instead, jump up the few
stairs to your left, and hit
another pair of Split Blocks to
make yet another bridge appear.
Get back to your Big Brothers on
the ground, walk across the
bridge, and hit the large blue
switch to open up the large
door.

You will finally enter the final
area where the blue pipe leads
back to the final part of the
castle. Because the Pipe is
blocked for now, walk around the
cage to the upper right corner
where a '?' resides. Get the 20
coins from that block, and walk
to the opposite side where you
will see a new block (a giant
Shine Sprite block). Don't hit
the block yet as it will not do
anything, and throw the Babies
to the ledge above you instead.
Enter the cave and you will find
out that it is pitch dark. Make
Mario hit the shine block first,
and a Shine Sprite will pop out
underneath the Babies. Use Baby
Mario to activate the Shine
Sprite, and quickly walk across
the bridge in front of you
before the light fades away. Do
not fall in the spiked pits or
hit the Big Shine block with the
wrong Brother, or the Babies
will have to start all over
again! If you were quick enough,
you should be able to go to the
third illuminated platform near
the upper left corner of the
cave. Hit the Big Block again
using the correct Brother, and
walk across the bridge to your
right to get to the next
illuminated platform. Hit the
big shine block and the small
block again to light up the
room, and walk past the small
illuminated platform to the
large one at the bottom right
corner (go straight across the
rest of the bridge when the room
turns dark again). Exit the cave
with the Babies, and drop to the
ground to be inside the large
cage. Hit the unique treasure
chest block to get a Sparkling
Shard (that looks like a cone)!
Now the giant gate in the cage
will open allowing the Big
Brothers to enter. Become a
party of four again, and go
through the door in front of you
to get to the small room with
the blue pipe. Ignore the
regroup block as you are already
a party of four, and go down the
blue pipe to the final part of
the Castle.

In this area, save with the Save
Block to your right, walk across
the bridge, and continue to walk
right to get to the next area.
In here, jump up the staircase
without falling down, and press
another large blue switch to get
to the room with another Time
Portal. Watch the short scene
involving the Young Toadsworth,
and you will automatically be
transferred back to the Princess
Castle in present time.






================================
       Peaches Castle (present)
       [p4]
================================

Finally now that you are back in
the castle, exit the room you
are in, and navigate back to the
Professor in the back of the
castle. You can save your
progress with the Save Block and
hit the Heart Block (to heal) if
you need to. When you meet up
with the professor, he will
explain to you that you collect
a Cobalt Shard and need to get 5
more. Stuffwell will briefly
explain to you about badges
after a new Time Portal opens,
and you will regain control of
the group. Now walk down to the
garden, and go through the door
to your left to get into another
hallway. Go into the upper room,
and jump into the Time Hole to
get to Toadwood Forest. Before
you actually play the level, you
will see a short cut scene
involving the two Toadsworths
(Young and Old).






================================
       Toadwood Forest (past)
       [p5]
================================

Toadwood Forest is a creepy
place with various monsters and
Toads changed into trees. So
walk off the deck you are
standing on, and save you
progress with the Save Block.
After hitting the Save Block, go
right to enter the next area.
Now get the 6 Bro Flowers from
the upper left corner of the
area, and get the pair of
Mushrooms from the '?' block to
your right. You will see some
hollow tree trunks scattered
around this area (each had some
goodies (or an enemy) hiding
inside it). Now throw the Babies
into the first tree trunk, and
get the Mushroom Drop from the M
block and the 100-coin piece
from the '?' block. This giant
coin will shoot out of the tree
trunk to the ground, so quickly
use the Big Brothers to grab it
before it disappears. After
getting the goodies, use the
yellow trampoline to get back
out, and climb on Mario and
Luigi's back to continue your
adventure. Walk up to the second
tree truck ahead of you, and
throw the Babies in there to
encounter a new enemy, the
Koopeleon.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Koopeleon
----------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 20
Experience Points: 6

The Koopeleon is a strange enemy
that attacks just like the
Goombas with only one major
difference; they turn invisible
when they attack. To counter
attack these enemies, look at
the small dust cloud from the
invisible enemy and jump right
when it moves forward. If you
fail to counter attack (meaning
if you get hit or completely
miss the Koopeleon), he will
stay invisible until you hit him
again. Try not to get hit by
these enemies as their attack
power is pretty strong against
the Babies. I don't recommend
you to use the Green Shells (or
the Bro Flowers yet) against the
Koopeleon because they only deal
1 damage per turn and will
probably not kill them (unless
you kick the shell perfectly).
Finish off the Koopeleon(s) and
you will get a lot of experience
points and some money!

Possible Items Obtained: Green
Shell
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now exit out of this tree trunk
and meet up with the Big
Brothers like you did before.
Throw the two Babies into the
last tree trunk to your far
left, get the coin and 100-coin
piece, and get out of the truck
after you make the Big Brothers
get the coin. As a group of four
again, walk up the path in front
of you to get to the area where
you first meet the first toad
stuck in a tree. Listen to what
he says about the Princess
getting captured, and the
Brothers will automatically
dodge the laser bullets from the
Flying saucers. Now that you
have control of the Brothers
again, walk to the tree trunk to
your left, and send the Little
Tykes down there to get a Super
Mushroom and another 100- coin
piece. Exit out of the tree
trunk, regroup with your Bigger
Brothers, and continue your
adventure by going through the
path to your right.

Hit the L block in front of you
to get another 6 Bro Flowers,
and kill three Koopeleons after
stepping on the one in the
field. Now walk to the upper
right corner of the screen with
another hollow tree trunk, and
throw the Baby Brothers in there
to get to two more '?' blocks.
Get the three Green Shells from
the right block and the 100-coin
piece from the left one
(remember that the large coin
disappears after a few seconds).
Exit using the yellow
trampoline, get back on the
bigger Brothers, and walk
straight down until you drop on
a Boo Guy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------
Enemy: Boo Guy
--------------

Difficulty: Easy
Health: 17
Experience Points: 8

The Boo Guys may look kind of
like the Boos, but they attack
in a different way. When they
attack, they will move forward
between Mario and Luigi, quickly
point a finger at both Brothers,
and will temporarily split into
two Boo Guys. The Brother he
pointed to first will be his
victim, so make sure you make
the right Brother jump when he
attacks. An easy way to dodge
his attack is to make both set
of Brothers jump at the same
time. To counter attack the Boo
Guys, make both Brothers jump
after he completes splitting
into two. Finish off the Boo
Guys (and the two or three
Koopeleons in this case), and
continue your adventure.

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom, Super Mushroom, 1-Up
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating the Boo Guy for
the first time, walk left, and
hit the '?' block for another 3
Bro Flowers. Throw the Tykes
into the tree trunk to your
left, and make them jump on the
strange looking pipe to fight
another battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Elasto-Piranha
---------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 30
Experience Points: 16

When you first fight this enemy,
the battle will seem to drag on,
but hang in there for the
experience points. Elasto
Piranha attacks by spitting out
a slow moving fireball from his
mouth. This may pose a problem
as he spits it from a different
height every turn and it deals a
lot of damage (~10 to the
Babies!). First watch the shadow
of the fireball to see which
Brother it is aimed to, and jump
when the fireball when is a
little more than halfway down
the bottom screen to jump over
it (jump a little later if it is
heading to Baby Luigi). Keep
jumping on the Piranha to chip
away his health, and you will
finally kill him after three or
four turns.

Note: DO NOT use Bro Flowers
against this enemy as it will
only deal 1 point of damage no
matter how many fireballs you
throw!

Possible Items Obtained: Bro
Flower
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After this long battle, use the
trampoline to get back to the
Brothers, and walk down to the
lower part of the area to fight
another Boo Guy and some
Koopeleons. After you kill these
guys, continue walking right to
get to the next area. In here,
kill another set of Boo Guys and
Koopeleons, and drop down the
lower left side of the area to
get under another L block. Hit
it to get a 1-Up Mushroom, kill
another set of Boo Guys and
Koopeleons, and use the regroup
block to your right if you need
it. Walk left across the rest of
the path to get to the next
area. When you enter this area,
you will immediately notice that
there are six small empty blocks
surrounding a larger one. You
will also notice that there are
many hollow trees scattered
round this place (none you can
access though). Ignore all of
these blocks for now, and walk
to the bottom left corner where
you will see a hollow tree truck
that is accessible to the
Babies. So throw them down there
to get them to a large
underground tunnel with many
enemies and blocks.

Now that you have control of the
little Tykes, move them right
across the long winding tunnel,
and hit the first Fire Block
when you see it at the first
intersection. The fire from the
block will shoot out of one of
the tall tree trunks, and land
in one of the small blocks at
the surface. Take a right turn
at the intersection, kill the
Koopeleons that reside there,
and hit the second Fire Block
when you reach the right side of
the cave. Continue your run by
taking the pathway in front of
you, and make sure you hit the
next two Fire Blocks as you
continue walking across the
path. Now fight another Elasto-
Piranha below you (make sure you
heal with a Mushroom if you are
low on health), and hit the
fifth Fire Block after you
navigate past the sharp turn in
the middle of the room. Kill yet
another Elasto-Piranha, hit the
last Fire Block after you walk a
little bit more, and get back to
the intersection after the final
stretch of walking. Walk back to
the center of the tree trunk,
get out using the trampoline as
usual, and run into the Big
Brothers to become a group of
four again.

Now that the blocks in the
middle of the area contain fire,
you can hit them all to bring
them to the center large block.
So do so, and you will notice
the fireball in the middle block
will grow larger after every
small one reaches it. After you
hit the sixth small block, the
middle block will be flashing
red with fire. Hit the block and
watch as the giant fireball
burns down the trees that were
previously blocking your pathway
to the Blue Pipe. Get back to
the previous area, and walk up
to the upper center of it to see
the burnt down trees. Walk
across the newly made pathway,
walk across the bridge, and jump
down the Blue Pipe to get to the
next part of the level (the
courtyard of the Shroob's Vim
Factory).

Remember to save immediately
after you enter this part of the
level using the Save Block to
your right. After hitting the
Save Block, walk up the path by
jumping up the stairs to get to
the next area. In here, talk to
another Toad stuck in the tree
in front of you to learn that
the factory is ahead, and walk
to another hollow tree trunk to
your right. Heal the Babies if
they are low on health, and kill
the Elasto-Piranha at the bottom
of the tree trunk. After getting
your 16 Experience Points, get
out of the tree trunk to meet up
with the Big Brothers, and kill
the 6 Koopeleons in front of
you. now get back top the left
side of the area near another
tree trunk, and throw the Tykes
down there to get a 100-coin
piece from the '?' block and a
pair of unarmed jeans from the M
block. The unarmed jeans are not
that great of a pair of pants,
but put them on one of the
Babies if they have a high
defense or HP status (it
increases power but greatly
reduces defense). Get back out
of the tree trunk, meet up with
the big Brothers, and continue
your adventure by going up the
pathway ahead of you. Kill the
two Boo Guys and the Elasto-
Piranha when you reach the
intersection (to fight this
battle, step on the Boo Guy in
the intersection). Continue
walking up the path, any you
will see a pair of saucers fly
over you when you enter this
area.

Instead of continuing forward,
take a right turn when you see
the regroup block to get to the
next area. When you first enter
this area, you will notice that
most of the ground to your right
is covered up in spikes. Ignore
the spiked area for now, kill
the Boo Guys and Elasto Piranhas
near the hollow tree trunk, and
get the five coins in the '?'
block on the small ledge in
front of you. After getting the
last coin, walk back down, and
throw the Babies into the tree
trunk. To your direct right, you
will encounter a different block
with shifting arrows. Before you
hit the block, take control of
the Big Brothers, and make them
stand on the orange platform
over the spiked pit. When the
arrow on the shifting block
points to the right, quickly
make the Babies hit it, and the
platform will start to move in
that direction. Let the platform
move right until you see another
pathway, and hit the arrow block
again (now with a picture of a
rectangle) to stop it from
moving. Now make the Big
Brothers walk up the pathway,
hop up the stairs to your left,
and hit the L block to get a
Wallet Badge. This badge is not
all that useful (as you should
not be running away from any
battles), but equip it anyway to
somebody in case you
accidentally start to run away
(you will drop no coins when
running). Now with the Wallet
Badge equipped, walk back to the
orange platform, and make the
Babies move it right again. Stop
when you see a second pathway
ahead of you, and kill the
Elasto-Piranhas after stepping
on the pipe. After killing the
tough enemies, walk across the
long bridge to get to the next
area.

In this area, walk to the left,
and hit the regroup block to
bring the Babies back to where
you are. As a group of four
again, walk to the blue box to
your right, and throw the Babies
on it to get 3 Bro Flowers from
the '?' block. Now walk all the
way left to the tree trunk, and
throw the Babies in there to get
a 100-coin piece and 2 Green
Shells from the two '?' blocks.
Use the trampoline to get back
to the surface, and walk to the
Split Block in the center of the
area. To hit the block, make
Mario and Luigi jump, and press
X and Y to make the Babies jump
when the Big Brothers are at
their highest point in the air.
If you jumped high enough, you
should hit the Split Block
causing four more Split Blocks
to appear. Hit the four blocks
in the proper order (Baby Luigi,
Baby Mario, Luigi, Mario), and
the laser will power up one of
the claws near the front
entrance. Get back as a group of
four, and walk up the path to
your left to get to the next
area.

Ignore the purple '!' block to
your left for now and kill the
two sets of enemies as you
continue across the path (both
depicted by a green pipe).
Continue to walk left, throw the
little Tykes down the tree
trunk, and get the Big Brothers
on another orange platform
before you hit the block. This
spiked pit will have one deadly
trap, a golden platform. Unlike
the normal cliffs, the platform
you are riding on will not stop
when you hit this platform, but
it will go under it causing the
Brothers to get pushed off. So
hit the arrow block when it
faces right, make sure you make
Mario and Luigi jump over the
golden platform when it appears,
and jump to the ledge when the
spiked pit ends. Simply hit the
Purple Switch to make a cliff
rise from the ground to your far
left, and jump into the spiked
pit to get sent back to the left
of the area near the tree trunk.
Now get the Babies out of the
trunk, climb on the backs of
Mario and Luigi to get back
together, and use the newly
risen cliff to your left to get
to the next area.

This is another area with the
second set of Split Blocks, but
you should get another set of
goodies before you hit it. Get
the 1-Up Mushroom from the L
block to your left and the coin
from the '?' block, and throw
the Babies into the tree trunk
to your left to see another two
'?' blocks. Grab the Mushroom
and the 100-coin piece from both
blocks, get the Babies out of
the trunk, and hit the Split
Block in the center of the room
like you did before. Remember
the order of the Brothers to hit
the blocks from last time, and
the laser will fire to power up
the second claw near the front
entrance of the Factory. After
powering up the claw, walk down
the path to the bottom right
corner to get to the final (and
quite long) spiked pit area.

Like before, throw the Tykes
into the tree trunk, and get the
Big Brothers on the orange
platform to your left. Start by
moving straight down until you
hit the small platform, and move
right from there to see a pair
of '?' blocks below you. Move a
little more down to get stopped
by the platform, get the 2 Green
Shells and the coin from the
blocks, and move a little bit
left when you get back on the
orange platform. When you are
between the two pieces of brown
land, start to move down, and
you will eventually see an M
block on a golden platform.
Manually stop the platform
before you get pushed off, and
get the 1- Up Super from the M
block, and go back left when you
get back on the orange platform.
Keep moving left until you get
stopped by another piece of
ground, grab the coin there, and
continue to go down until you
see the L and '?' block on two
different golden platforms. Get
the 3 Bro Flowers from the '?'
block and the Wild Trousers from
the L one, and move down to
another pair of golden platforms
with two '?' blocks. Hit the
left block to get a 10-coin
piece, and rapidly hit the right
one to get five coins. Finally,
move the orange platform to the
lower right corner to get
stopped by the ground, and walk
across the pathway right to get
back to the area with the Toad
in the tree telling you where
the factory is. Before you go
and attack the factory, go down
the pathway in the center of the
area, and save with the Save
Block in the first area with the
Blue Pipe. After you save, walk
back up your path until you
reach the entrance of the
Factory (you can now pass the
two circular platforms over the
water). Step on the blue pipe
when you enter the first room of
the factory to enter the second
floor.






================================
       Shroob's Vim Factory [p6]
================================

In here, save again with the
Save Block to your right, and
step on the large blue switch in
front of you to enter the next
room. Now watch the short cut
scene as the Hammer Brothers
speak 1337, and as Mario and
Luigi get trapped. Soon you will
be thrown in your first true
boss battle against both Hammer
Brothers.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-----------------------------
Mini-Boss Battle: Hammer Bros
-----------------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 100 each
Experience Points: 80

These Brothers are quite tough
enemies because they have quite
a bit of HP and hammer attacks
that might be difficult to
dodge. Use Bro Flowers against
these two Brothers as they are
fairly effective, but don't use
Green Shells (they only deal 1
point of damage per hit). The
Hammer Brothers has one attack,
but there are two variations of
it and it is fairly powerful.
For this attack, one Hammer
Brother will hit the other one
causing him to fly into one of
the Babies. Before you jump to
dodge the other Hammer Brother,
watch the hands of the other one
hitting him. If the Hammer
Brother hits the other one with
the hammer, jump to dodge the
attack, but DO NOT jump if he
hits the other one with his
hands. If one of the Hammer
Brothers die or get burnt, the
other Brother will use his
hammer to attack you. The hammer
will fly into the air, bounce
off the ground and will try to
hit you. Jump right when the
hammer hits the ground to dodge
it, but be careful as he will
throw two or three per turn.
Keep dodging their attacks and
clobbering them with fireballs,
and they will soon both die
giving you a lot of experience!

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After this battle, the strange
antennas on the Hammer Brothers
will fall off allowing them to
speak correctly again. Watch the
rest of the cut scene and Both
Brothers will give you a hammer
and teach you how to use them.


********************************
----------------------
Tutorial: Hammer Moves
----------------------

Now that you got your hammer,
press R to whip it out, and
hammer all five crates in front
of you by pressing X. After
this, the second Hammer Brother
will show you how to dig in the
ground and go under gate. So
walk near the gate when the
Hammer Brothers stop talking,
press Y to get the Babies ready
to dig, and press Y again to go
underground. Now navigate
through both gates, and get back
out of the ground when you get
near another set of crates.
Hammer through both crates, dig
under one more metal gate, and
press R again to put away your
hammers. Now jump up the stairs
and hit the purple '!' block and
the Hammer Brothers will tell
you about Beans and let you go
(you will now be able to dig the
X markers to get beans).
********************************


Back in the second room, jump on
the big yellow switch to your
left, and you will enter a room
with a few more crates and
gates. Drill under another gate
and break through 6 more crates.
Go through the door to get to
the next area. In here, go
through the gate in front of
you, and hit the '?' block to
get three more Mushrooms
(remember to put away your
hammers!). Get back out of the
small room, walk to the middle
right corner of the room
(through the small hallways),
and drill through another gate
to get to another small room.
Here, hop up the staircase in
front of you, and walk down the
right path (on the wall) to get
to the lower right room. Grab
the coin and the 3 Green Shells
from both '?' blocks, and use
the hammer to hit the red switch
in the upper right corner of the
small room you are in. Now one
of the steps in the upper left
corner will jut out. After this,
jump back up the stairs to the
top of the wall again, walk left
across the thin pathway, and
jump over the hallway to fall in
the small room with the second
red switch. Hit the switch using
the hammer again to get the blue
step out, drill through the
gate, and jump up another short
step of stairs to get back
outside the room (off the
walls). Navigate to the upper
left corner if you aren't
already there, and go through
the vent pipe to your direct
left to get into the vents. In
here, take the pathway down at
the intersection, and hit the
'?' blocks to get the 2
Refreshing Herbs. Walk back up
the path, and you will soon see
a strange looking Spiny in front
of you. When you encounter this
bug, you will be thrown in
another tutorial battle with the
Hammer Brothers teaching you
some new hammer moves.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------------------
Tutorial Battle: Spiny Shroopas
-------------------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 20
Experience Points: 2

At the start of this battle, one
Hammer Brother will instruct you
to select the hammer icon, so do
so. Baby Mario will walk up to
the Spiny Shroopa, and pull out
his hammer behind him. Press X
again when the hammer shakes,
and you will hit the Shroopa for
around 5 points of damage.
Repeat this for Baby Luigi using
Y instead of X, and both
Shroopas will attack you. Hold
both the X and Y button to pull
them behind you, and strike
right after he jumps to hit you.
You can use Bro Flowers against
these guys as they are
effective, but don't use if for
this battle so you can improve
your hammering skills. Be
careful, if these guys hit you,
you have a slight chance of
getting poisoned, which will
damage you for every turn until
you use a refreshing herb (or at
the end of the battle). Keep
attacking the Shroopas in this
way until they die. Be careful,
in later battles as the Shroopas
may attack you twice in one turn
(even after a counter attack).

Possible Items Obtained: Green
Shell
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After this quick battle,
continue to walk across the
vent, and hammer the Spiny
Shroopa to make him dizzy when
you enter the battle. After
killing him, take the pathway to
your lower left, and hit the '?'
block to get a quick Mushroom
drop. Get back to the
intersection to take a right
turn then left turn, and kill
another Shroopa to practice your
hammering. Now continue forward
out of the pipes, and land on
the ground near two more gates.
Drill through the one to your
left, kill another Shroopa, and
go through the door to get to a
small room. Now kill another set
of Shroopas again, move to the
bottom of the room with the
three blocks, and hit them to
get a 10-coin piece, two Green
Shells, and another set of
unarmed jeans (don't put them
on). Move back to the upper left
corner of the room, and drill
through the X in the ground to
get a *BEAN*. Now press Pause,
and Stuffwell will teach you how
to count beans. So follow his
instructions by going to the
items tab, and press the right
button to move to beans.
Stuffwell will stop talking, so
exit the pause menu. Now get
back to the north part of the
room with two gates, go through
the right one, and enter the
door to your right to get to the
next room.

As you enter this room, you will
immediately notice that there is
a giant tree in the middle of
the room trapping the Big
Brothers, and that there are
four red orbs scattered from the
tree. So whip out your hammer,
and whack all of the orbs to
break them and to free the
Brothers from their trap. Both
sets of Brothers will quickly
rejoice and be met by two more
Shroobs.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Tutorial Battle: Spiny Shroopas
(with Big Brothers)
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Easy
Health: 20
Experience Points: 2

This battle will be similar to
the last tutorial battle, except
the Hammer Brothers will show
you how to hammer on your Big
Brothers' back. To fight like
this, select the hammer icon,
and press A when the hammer
shakes for the first time, and
press X when it shakes again. If
you did this correctly (the
hammer head doesn't fall off),
you should significantly deal
more damage than before. Now
another Spiny Shroopa will take
the dead ones place (after you
use the Luigi Brothers to
attack), leaving you to battle
two again. Fight both Shroopa
until whey die. Note that Spiny
Shroopas will execute a
different attack of only the Big
Bros are present. This attack
will involve the Shroopa rolling
into you, so jump twice quickly
to dodge the rolled up Shroopa
(you should jump twice because
he might stop for a second, then
hit you in an attempt to trick
you).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you kill the annoying
Shroopas, walk to the upper
right corner of the room, and
throw the Taters up the ledge
near the red switch. Whack the
switch to open up the red gate,
and go through it after you meet
up with your Big Brothers. Go
through the door to your right
to get to the first area (where
you meet the 1337 Brothers), and
step on the large blue switch in
the upper right corner to get to
the next room. In this room, you
will see two new enemies, but
make sure you get the 4
Cannonballers from the M block
to your right. Now go ahead and
step on the enemy that looks
like a Golden Shroob to enter a
new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-----------------
Enemy: Dr. Shroob
-----------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 29
Experience Points: 18


When you enter this battle, Dr.
Shroob will walk up to you and
shoot two laser balls at you. Do
dodge this attack, make both
Brothers jump when the laser
ball is halfway towards you, but
don't step on it (they are
powerful). After this attack,
Dr. Shroob will either pull out
a red Mushroom (that will make
him grow in the next turn), or a
black Mushroom (that will shrink
him). If you attack him again
while he is holding the
Mushroom, he will drop it and it
will fall away. Although it is
impossible not to knock the
Mushroom away (unless you run
away and press L), I will
quickly tell you what happens
when he eats up either Mushroom.
If Dr. Shroob eats the red
Mushroom, he will grow gigantic
and will try to run into you.
Now whip out your hammers but DO
NOT swing too early! Dr. Shroob
runs slowly which will throw off
many people and cause them to
swing early. Swing your hammers
right before he touches you to
counter attack him (don't get
hit as he deals a lot of
damage). The black Mushroom is a
similar deal, except he shrinks
to a minuscule size and will
deal little damage if he runs
into you. So keep attacking Dr.
Shroob (both shells and Fire
Flowers are effective), and he
will die giving you your
deserved Experience Points.

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating this new enemy,
kill another two Spiny Shroopas,
and the second Dr. Shroob near
the door. Before you go through
the door, quickly walk back to
the silver saucers (with a
Lakitu hanging on to it), and
let it dispense more Spiny
Shroopas. Fight them all to get
more experience points, and jump
to hit the saucer to fight him
in battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Lakitufo
---------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 26
Experience Points: 18


Lakitufo is an annoying enemy
that will always fight you with
two Spiny Shroopa companions.
This guy has two different
attacks, one that can be
devastating (kind of). The first
attack is his headbutt. Lakitufo
will move its ship towards you,
and jump off the ship to attack
you. Jump right after he jumps
to dodge his attack (you better
dodge it as this attack deals a
lot of damage). His second
attack will involve throwing a
spiked ball at you. When he
does, deflect this ball by
hammering right when it hits the
ground, or it will cause you to
take damage AND will put another
Spiny Shroopa on the field.
Because Lakitufo has this kind
of power, attack him first
(jumping is good, fireballs are
great, and shells are useless).
After Lakitufo is out of the
way, kill the rest of the
Shroopas to finish the battle.

Possible Item Obtained:
Cannonballer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing this annoying
enemy, go through the door to
the upper left corner of the
room to get to the next area.
Before you go down the blue
pipe, get another *BEAN* by
drilling the X in the lower
right corner of the room, and
regroup with the block if
necessary. You will end up in
the next floor of this factory
near a Save Block and another
regroup block. But before you
save, get another *BEAN* in the
lower left corner of the room.
Now that your file is saved, go
through the door to get to the
next area, and use the Babies to
drill through the gate in front
of you. In this small room,
simply kill the Spiny Shroopa,
and hit the red switch in the
upper left corner. Exit the
room, meet up back with your
Bigger Brothers, and get the
pair of refreshing herbs in the
L block in the upper left
corner. Now go back to the upper
right corner, fight all of the
Spiny Shroopas that fall from
the Lakitufo, and kill the
Lakitufo itself after it gets
out of Shroopas (you don't have
to wait if you are low on
health). Go through the door you
previously opened, and enter the
door to your right to get to the
next area.

In here, continue to walk right,
ignore the closed doors ahead of
you, and kill the Shroopas and
Lakitufo. Now throw the Babies
on the ledge in the wall near
the force field, and make them
walk into the cave where
Shroopas and red switches
reside. Kill the Shroopa, hit
the switch on the wall to
deactivate the force field, and
make the Big Brothers walk to a
set of two Split Blocks. Hit
both blocks using any Brother,
and the force from them will
create a bridge over the
electrified pit near the Babies.
Use the bridge to safely cross
the pit, and go through the
fence to get to another red
switch shortly after. This
switch will deactivate another
force field, so move the Big
Brothers forward, kill another
Dr. Shroob, and continue to walk
until you are under another set
of Split Blocks (both are
holographic for now). Take back
control of the Baby Brothers,
get the *BEAN* right outside of
the cage with the red switch,
and walk underneath another pair
of Split Blocks. Hit them first
with the Babies, than with the
Big Brothers to make a platform
rise out of the ground in the
cave with the Babies. Use the
platform to hop on the ledge,
and to exit the cave. Now walk
left, hammer the four crates in
your way, and you will
eventually see two red switches
after a long walk. Hit both
switches to open the doors
beneath you, drop back to the
ground, and go through the left
one to get to the next area
(make sure you get the Big
Brothers back with the Babies
before you do).

In this skinny room, simply walk
up, grab another *BEAN* near the
wall to your right, and kill
another Dr. Shroob. After
killing him, go through the door
at your left to enter a room
with a different kind of '?'
block. Before you hit it, use
the Babies to get the *BEAN* at
the lower right corner. Now get
back with the Bigger Brothers,
and use the Babies as an extra
jump to hit the '?' block with a
strange orb surrounding it (High
Coin Block). Now the '?' block
will split up into A, B, X, and
Y blocks (They will hover over
Mario, Luigi and the Babies
respectively). Now a glowing orb
will randomly move between the
blocks. Hit each letter block
when the orb powers it up to get
10 coins from it. You have to
quickly hit the blocks correctly
to get the most coins (a good
amount is ~35 hits and the max
is 50). After getting hundreds
of coins, get back out of the
room, and walk in the right door
when you reach the intersection
(of 2 doors) again. Now on the
left side of the long hallway,
hit the L block to get 4
Cannonballers, and kill the
Lakitufo and the Spiny Shroopas
ahead of you. Keep walking
forward, kill another set of Dr.
Shroobs, and get the 3 Bro
Flowers from the M block. Get
another *BEAN* from the X on the
ground before you exit through
the door to your right.

This is another room where you
have to use the Babies to
navigate the orange platform
across a pit. So kill the Dr.
Shroob below you, regroup with
the regroup block if needed, and
throw the little Tykes on the
ledge near the wall in front of
you. As the Babies, enter the
cave, get another *BEAN* in the
upper left corner, and stand
under the arrow block. Get the
Big Brothers on the platform,
and use the Babies to hit the
arrow block so the platform
moves right. The Big Brothers
will automatically be stopped
near a purple '!' switch, so hit
it to build another bridge over
the electrified pit in the cave
with the Babies. Don't cross the
bridge just yet, and hit the
arrow block so the platform
moves around the piece of ground
and near another cluster of
blocks. Grab the 1-Up Mushroom
and 3 Green Shells from the two
lower blocks (M and L), and get
the pair of Mushrooms and 5
coins from the M block and '?'
block above you. Now move the
orange platform right until it
hits the pink ground, and hit
the two Split Blocks with the
Big Brothers to your right (near
the big blue switch). The power
from the Split Blocks will build
another bridge over another
electrified pit in the cave. So
take control of the Babies one
last time, walk across the first
bridge, and kill the Spiny
Shroopa. After you kill the
first one, walk across the
second bridge, kill yet another
Spiny Shroopa, and go through
the door to your lower right
corner to get out of the cave.
Jump off the ledge, meet up with
the Big Brothers, and step on
the blue switch to open up the
door in front of you.

This is a small room with only a
Save Block. Before you save, use
a Mushroom drop to heal all four
Brothers back to full health,
and equip the Babies with the
Unarmed Jeans. Now save (trust
me, you really need to), and
step on another blue switch to
enter a differently colored room
(the floor is blue instead of
pink). Watch the short cut scene
involving a Swiggler powering up
some saucers, and you will
shortly enter a battle against
him.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Boss Battle: Swiggler
---------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 250
Experience Points: 198


When you fight Swiggler, you
will immediately notice that
there is a pair of Dr. Shroobs
near him. Don't attack the
Shroobs just yet, but use a
Cannonballer against him or
simply jump (Fire Flowers are
relatively ineffective). After
your first round of attacks,
dodge the lasers from both Dr.
Shroobs (they will pull out
different Mushrooms), and
Swiggler will attack. For his
first attack, Swiggler will
pound the ground three times
causing shock waves. Make Mario
and Luigi jump at the same time
before the waves hit you to
dodge them (don't step on them),
and Swiggler will use his second
attack against you. For his
second attack, Swiggler will
walk up in front of one Brother
and spit a toxic cloud at him.
Hammer the cloud twice (or with
precise timing, once) to get rid
of the cloud before it damages
you. Dodge another cloud when
Swiggler spits it at the other
Brother, and it will be your
turn to attack (Swiggler will
also pull out a green drink).

Before you attack, look at booth
Dr. Shroobs and see what they
are holding. If one of them is
holding a poison Mushroom
(black), jump on him to make the
Mushroom bounce out of his hands
and into the drink. Now that the
drink is poisoned, use the other
Brother to attack Swiggler (now
is the time to use Cannonballers
or Green Shells), and dodge both
attacks from the Dr. Shroobs. On
Swiggler's turn, he will drink
up the poisoned drink and will
cause him to turn green and to
greatly lower his defense!

DO NOT attack a Dr. Shroob if he
is holding the red Mushroom, or
it will recover 86 of Swiggler's
HP! Now that he is sick, use
another Cannonballer against the
Swiggler, and he will recover
after your turn ends. Now that
Swiggler is OK, he will drink up
another green drink (not
poisoned this time) and power up
a pair of saucers on the upper
screen. Now both saucers will
shoot energy balls at you, so
dodge them by jumping when they
enter the bottom screen (don't
jump too late).

Keep attacking Swiggler in this
way (poison him when you can),
and you will eventually kill him
for a lot of Experience Points.
Don't worry about the Dr.
Shroobs, as they will die when
Swiggler does.

Possible Items Obtained: 1-Up
Super
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you beat Swiggler in this
long, hard battle, he will
explode leaving you the second
cobalt star shard. Now that you
have two shards, Baby Bowser
will spin around you and steal
both shards (OH NO!). After this
tragedy, you will be teleported
back to Peach's Castle in the
real world.






================================
      Peaches Castle (present)
      [p7]
================================

Before you exit this room, meet
up with the little Tykes (they
are separated), and throw them
on the bookshelf near the door
to your right. Drill the X to
the right for a *BEAN* and the X
on the left for another *BEAN*.
From this room you are in, walk
back to the main hall with the
Save Block (you don't need the
Heart Block as you are
automatically healed after a
Boss Battle), and save. Although
the indicator on the map will
tell you to get to the
Professor, walk to the upper
right corner of the castle
(first floor) to the two shops.
If you haven't already, get the
coin and Mushroom from the two
'?' blocks in the hallway that
is right of the Professor.


--------------------------------
First Shop Stop (2000 coins):


From the items shop, grab 5
Super Mushrooms, 5 Mushroom
Drops and 5 1-Up Mushrooms. In
the Bro Item section, grab 5
Cannonballers (the other items
will be easily found on your
quest). After these purchases,
you should have ~1400 coins
left.

From the equipment shop, get two
pairs of Branded Slacks for the
Big Bros and two more pairs of
Preferred Jeans for the Tykes.
This purchase will cost over
1000 coins, but it is well worth
it to keep the Brothers alive.
Now get the EXP badge and the
Coin Badge from the Badges
section if you have enough
money, and equip them to Mario
and Luigi. Don't get the other
badges as they are utterly
useless.

After these purchases, you will
probably be broke, so you can
sell the Wafer Slacks and Silky
Pants if you want to get a few
more coins.
--------------------------------


After buying all of your items,
walk back to the Professor, and
talk to him. He will tell you
about new Time Holes that have
been popping up, and he will
show you the correct one to
enter to get back the shards.
Before you go for the time hole
on the second floor, walk into
the garden to see the two
Toadsworth trying to impress
Baby Peach. Now they will spin
to stop the crying of the
princess, and Luigi will ask
them to learn their move. You
will soon be transported into a
tutorial stage to practice your
new move, the Spin Jump.


********************************
-------------------
Tutorial: Spin Jump
-------------------

After the Toads stop talking,
press R to prepare your
technique, and press B to hover
in the air when you are near the
first spiked pit. Move across
the pit, and repeat for the next
three pits. When you meet up
with the Toadsworths again, they
will leave you back in the
garden free to go.
********************************


If you want to get some extra
beans:

Because you have learned to get
beans from the ground by
digging, you can get the beans
you missed from the previous
areas. Although you are not
required to get each bean, you
should as they will definitely
help you when you can use them
to buy items from the secret
bean shop. If you are wondering,
there are 8 beans in Bowser's
Castle (past), and no beans in
Hollijolli village (past).

In Bowser's castle, there are
around two beans in every area
(they are usually found on
bridges). After you get all 8
beans [*BEAN*, *BEAN*, *BEAN*,
*BEAN*,
*BEAN*, *BEAN*, *BEAN*, *BEAN*],
 get back out of Bowser's castle
 and back into
the garden to continue your
adventure.


After getting the extra beans:

From the garden, navigate to the
left set of stairs, and walk
behind it to get near a '?'
block. Hit it to get a Mushroom,
and walk up the first flight
stairs to get near another '?'
block. Hit that to get another
10 coins, walk up the second
flight of stairs, and hit the
large blue switch to enter the
second floor of the castle. In
this room, take the pathway
right when you walk up near the
Toad, and pass by the first
bookcase when you are in the
Library. Throw the Tykes to the
ground, and use the stepstool to
get on top of the second
bookcase you see. Now spin jump
top the bookcase to your left,
get the training badge from the
'?' block, and get back to the
bookcase you jumped on using the
spin jump technique again. Get
on the Bookcase in front of you,
and spin jump to your right to
get to another case with a '?'
block. Grab the coin from the
block, and spin jump across two
more bookcases to get under yet
another '?' block. Hit the block
to get a super Mushroom, drop
back to the ground (you cannot
spin jump back to the previous
bookcase), use the stepstool to
get back on the second bookcase,
and spin jump right until you
get on the fourth one. Now
follow the arrow up, and spin
jump forward to get on a ledge.
Walk right across the ledge, hit
the M block to get a 1-Up Super,
and walk back left across the
ledge until you see the Regroup
Block. Use it to get back with
the Little Brothers, and jump
into the portal to your left to
teleport to Yoshi's Island
(Past).






================================
      Yoshi's Island (past) [p8]
================================

When you first enter Yoshi's
Island, walk across the bridge
to your right to get to the next
island, and read the tilted
sign. Don't go looking for the
egg now, and follow the giant
footprints to your right to get
into a small house. Hit the L
block for a Shroom Badge (which
is not that useful), and save
with the Save Block before
leaving this hut. Now back in
Yoshi's Island walk the middle
of the grass, and jump over the
ledge to get to another hut.
When you enter this hut, you
will meet a new Koopa (Kylie
Koopa, the Ace Reporter). Listen
to what this Koopa has to say,
and you will take control of the
Babies. Jump up the yellow
trampoline to your upper right,
and you will see four Yoshis in
the attic of the Hut (two
standing, and two ducking).
Continue to watch the cut scene,
and the Yoshis will panic and
run out of the hut. When you see
the Giant Pink Yoshi outside the
hut, Mario and Luigi will run
back inside leaving you to see
the rest of the cut scene.

Now walk back outside the hut
when you take control of the
Brothers, and listen to Kylie
before she leaves. Walk to the
left side of the hut, and use
the Babies to get another *BEAN*
from the ground near the
platform. Use the Big Brothers
to jump onto the roof, and spin
jump to the roof of the next
house. Grab 10 coins from the
'?' block, drop back to the
ground, but don't meet up with
the Babies just yet. Make the
Babies walk forward (diagonally
right) until you see another X
near the closed hit. Drill it to
get another *BEAN*, and meet up
with the Big Brothers once again
to continue your adventure. Now
back as a group of four again,
walk into the hut in the lower
right corner of the upper ledge
to see Kamek. After she runs
away to find snacks for Baby
Bowser, use the Babies to jump
up the yellow trampoline to get
into the attic near two '?'
blocks. Hit both blocks to get 2
Smash Eggs and 20 coins, drop
back to the bottom of the hut,
and climb on the Big Brothers'
backs. When you leave, you will
hear Kamek scream. Watch the
rest of the cut scene, and you
will be in control of the
Brothers again after Kamek opens
up the locked door. Go through
the door in the upper left
corner, gat the 2 Smash Eggs
from the '?' block, and save
with the Save Block.

After saving, exit the hut
through the door on the
backside, and follow the
footprints across the bridge to
the next small island. In here,
throw the Babies off your back,
and make them jump up the
trampoline in the lower right
corner. You will land on a cloud
near a '?' block with a blue
button on it. Simply walk to the
block, and hit the blue button
to bring it down near the Big
Brothers. Use the Big Brothers
to hit the block which contains
a 100-coin piece, and get the
Babies back on the Brothers back
(get off the cloud). Now walk
into the next island to your
left, get another *BEAN* from
the X in the upper left corner
near the hut's entrance, and
enter the hut to see another cut
scene. After this cut scene, you
will exit the hut through its
backside. Now you will get on a
small island with a Regroup
Block and blue pipe. Hit the
regroup block if needed, get the
*BEAN* from the ground to the
left of the pipe, and go down
the pipe to get to the second
part of Yoshi's Island.

In here, save with the Save
Block to your left, and go
across the bridge to your right
to get on another island. Watch
another short cut scene, and
Kamek will leave after setting
portions of the world on fire!
After this, throw the Babies off
your backs, and walk them to the
fountain in front of you. Now
Baby Mario will start to drink
up the water, and will cause
Stuffwell to pop out and explain
to you about his new water
spitting ability. The number
above Baby Mario will show how
mush spit ammo you have, and you
have to use Baby Luigi's hammer
to cause hit to spit one drop
out. This new ability is useful
for putting out fires (hint,
hint), but Baby Mario will move
slower and will not be able to
jump when he is tubby (after
drinking water).

After this short tutorial, you
should have 3 drops of water
left, so make the Babies walk
across the bridge to your right
to see the first fire. Now spit
at the fire (only once) to put
it out, get rid of your other
water drops, and walk back on
the Big Brothers' backs. As a
group of four, walk across the
fire free bridge, and go up the
grass to get to the next part of
the island you are on. In here,
hit the L block to get some more
Smash Eggs, and hit the '?' one
for a coin. Walk up a little
bit, and you will meet up with a
new type of enemy, the Pidgit.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------
Enemy: Pidgit
-------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 30
Experience Points: 18


When you start this first
battle, you will see a Bird on a
Carpet Flying in the air and
eventually swooping towards you.
This is Pidgit's first (and
fairly easy to dodge) attack.
The only tricky part about
dodging this attack is the fact
that Pidgit may attack you from
the front or behind; either way,
jump when he is halfway down the
bottom screen and you will
successfully counter attack him.
Be careful, sometimes the Pidgit
will shortly stop halfway down
the bottom screen in an attempt
to trick you! To tell if the
Pidgit is going to jump or not,
look at him before he dives to
you. If he quickly jumps, he
will try to trick you, but if he
doesn't, he will perform a
consistent sweep. Avoid this by
jumping after he passes the
halfway point of the screen.
Another good tip is to watch the
Pidgit's shadow to see which
Brother he is attacking.

The Pidgit with white bags near
them will give you a lot more
coins if you beat them in
battle. Kill them quickly
because they have a tendency of
fleeing away from you! Fireballs
are fairly effective against the
Pidgit, but don't use the Green
Shells for obvious reasons. Keep
attacking the Pidgits in this
way, and you will finally beat
them.

Possible Items Obtained:
Mushroom Drop, Smash Egg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the first Pidgit,
go left to kill another one, and
walk back to the right side to
see a trampoline. Throw the
Babies to jump to the large
cloud above you, and hit the M
block for 6 more Smash Eggs
after you get control of the
Babies. Drill the X in the upper
right corner for another
*BEAN*, pull out your hammers,
 and hit the strange white puffy
 bug to fight
another new enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-----------------
Enemy: Gnarantula
-----------------

Difficulty: Easy
Health: 30
Experience Points: 15


When you first encounter the
Gnarantula, don't go and jump on
him yet. Before you attack him,
you should know that there are
two types of Gnarantulas. One
has a yellow bug underneath the
white coat (this one is safe to
jump on), while the other one
has a green pointy bug under it
(not safe to jump on). The coat
will fall off the Gnarantula
only after you jump on him (and
possibly get poked if there is a
pointy bug under it).

To stay on the safe side, use
your hammers against the
Gnarantulas (Bro Flowers are
moderately effective while
shells are better). When the
Gnarantula attack, they will
walk up to you, jump twice, and
try to hit you. Counter attack
this attack by hammering when
the bug is halfway down from his
second jump. Continue attacking
these bugs until they die. Note
that Gnarantulas are sometimes
paired up with the annoying
Pidgits.

Possible Items Obtained: Smash
Egg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the Gnarantula,
hit the '?' block for 20 coins,
and hit the L block for a useful
1-Up Super. Drill the X in the
bottom left corner for another
*BEAN*, drop back down the hole
to get on the ground, and meet
up with the Big Brothers. Now
walk up the slant, jump up the
stairs, and continue on the
pathway to get to the next
island. In here, take a right
turn at the intersection, and
you will get on another island
with the second fire. This fire
is on a ledge, so you cannot
douse it from the ground, but
you can always use the cloud
above you. So throw the Babies
off your back, jump up the
yellow trampoline to the cloud,
and kill the two Gnarantulas
there. After killing them, get
the 10 coins from the L block,
and the Heart Pants from the '?'
one. Equip the pants to the Baby
with less Health and Defense,
and you will see three Xs around
you. Get the *BEAN* from the
upper left one, another *BEAN*
from the lower left one, and
finally get the last *BEAN* from
the X in the middle of the
clouds. After getting the
goodies, make Baby Mario drink
up a drop of water from the
fountain in the upper right
corner, and make him spit it in
the pipe near the arrow (this
arrow is located at the bottom
part of the cloud near the blue
pipe block). After the fire is
doused below you, drop back down
to the ground, meet up with the
Big Brothers, and hit the orange
'!' switch that was on the ledge
with the fire.

Hitting this switch will cause
the '!' block outline to be
solid, so it will now be
possible to jump up to the high
ledge. Now walk back to the
intersection, take a left turn
this time, and drop in the pit
near the large orange '!' block.
Before you jump up the block,
kill the Pidgit that is hovering
above you, and regroup with the
regroup block if you are
separated (you shouldn't be).
Now jump up to the high ledge
using the orange block, and walk
across the bridge to get to the
next island.

This island is full of tall
platforms, one which has the
fire. Before you go to tackle
the fire, grab the two Mushrooms
in the '?' block below you, and
use the little Tykes to get the
*BEAN*. Now make the Babies get
another *BEAN* from the lower
left corner of the ground, and
use Luigi to get up to 70 coins
from the L block. Read the sign
ahead of you to learn that you
need to use the Spin Jump
technique, but make sure you
make the Babies get two more
beans. One
*BEAN* is in the upper right
 corner, and the other *BEAN* is
 in the upper left.
Now get back as a group of four,
and hop up the stairs near the
upper ledge to see a few holes.
When you walk to the low fence
to the left side of the ledge,
use the Babies to dig through
it, and to pop out when you
enter the cave. In here, kill
another set of Gnarantulas (no
Pidgits in here), and hit the
'?' block for another two Smash
Eggs. Jump up the ledge to your
right, kill another annoying
Gnarantula, but ignore the water
fountain for now. Instead, walk
down, and rapidly hit the '?'
block on a small platform to get
a few coins. Now get back to the
water fountain, and drink two
drops of water. Get back to the
part where the '?' block used to
be, and align yourself so you
are directly facing one of the
wooden pipes. Spit out one drop
of water through the pipe to
douse the fire on the left
platform. Spit the other drop of
water through the other pipe
below you to douse that fire
ball as well. After both
fireballs are out, take control
of the Big Brothers, stand in
front of the wooden pipe, and
spin jump backwards to land on
the first platform. From here,
spin jump to the platform to
your left (by going diagonally
down), and hit the green '!'
block when you land.

This will cause the second '!'
block to turn solid. Don't go to
get the Babies yet, and spin
jump right across the platforms
to get back to the wooden
bridge. Back on the island with
the '!' blocks, drop back down
the pit, and regroup with the
regroup block to get back as a
group of four. Now use the green
'!' block to get on the ledge,
kill the Pidgit there, and go
through the pathway to your
right to get to the next area.
In here, walk right across the
path, hit the '?' block on the
platform to get 10 coins, and
continue up the path to get to
the fiery part of the island.
When you enter this part of the
island, you will immediately
notice that there are three
yellow pipe blocks in the
middle. You have to hit these
blocks so that the pipes will
align with each other and allow
a drop of water to reach the
fire. To do this, hit the lower
left block once, hit the lower
right block three times, and the
upper block twice. After the
pipes are aligned, throw the
Babies off your backs, and get
them on the cloud above you
using the trampoline. On the
cloud, drink one drop of water
from the fountain, and spit out
that drop when you are facing
the arrow near the blue pipe
block. If you aligned the blocks
correctly, the drop should douse
the flame giving you access to
the blue '!' switch. Get the
Babies down from the cloud, make
them meet up with the Big Bros,
and hit the switch to make the
blue '!' block solid. Go back
across the pathway to get back
to the island with the three
blocks.

Back here, jump on the ledge in
front of you, and use the blue
block to get on the upper part
of the island (near a '?' block
and a new enemy). Hit the block
to get three Green Shells, and
jump on the strange human to
start up a new battle against
him.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-----------------
Enemy: Coconutter
-----------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Hit Points: 50
Experience Points: 20


These guys will usually come in
pairs and are very annoying. The
best items to use against them
are Green Shells, but you can
use Bro Flowers against them if
you have none.

These Coconutter has two
different attacks and one
healing ability. The Coconutter
will attack you from behind for
both attacks, so watch your back
if you want to dodge them. The
first attack involves throwing a
spear to you. You can easily
tell when a Coconutter will
throw a spear when his eyes
twinkle. To dodge this attack,
jump immediately when the spear
loops across the screen and is
visible from the left side. Try
not to hit it because it will
still hurt you. For the second
attack, the Coconutter will spit
a needle at you from behind
again. To dodge this attack,
jump about 1 second after he
prepares his shot (don't jump
too early as this is a common
mistake), but make sure you
don't jump on the needle itself.

One of the annoying techniques
the Coconutters can perform is
healing his comrades. This power
might take two turns (the first
is facing the Spear into the
air), but he will summon a
healing rainstorm by the second
turn. If the Coconutter tries to
summon a rainstorm, try your
best to kill him before he does
(don't jump on him or use a Bro
item like Cannonballers because
the spear will hurt you).

Continue to attack the
Coconutters with Green Shells
and jumping until they die, and
you will be nicely rewarded with
Experience Points.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating the Coconutters,
walk up the rest of the pathway,
and you will be in the area with
the blue pipe. Regroup if you
need to, and go down the pipe to
get to the last part of the
island. In here, walk up the
pathway, save with the Save
Block, and continue up until you
get to the next island. This
island has two different
pathways that lead to the same
place. One has some enemies
crawling around waiting to
attack you while the other one
requires proper use of the Spin
Jump. You will eventually take
both pathways (you need to take
the Spin Jumping one to get
across the area), but you should
go to the enemy infested area
first to get some experience.
Now start by walking left across
the long stretch of grass
without using any of the tall
platforms, hit the '?' block for
10 coins, and walk directly into
the next area. Hit the second
'?' block here for another three
Green Shells, and fight both
Coconutters (usually grouped up
with Pidgits) to get your
promised experience. After
fighting both Coconutters, throw
the Babies off your backs, and
jump up the trampoline to get on
another cloud. Here, kill the
Gnarantulas (paired up with
Pidgits again), and get the coin
from the left '?' block and the
two Smash Eggs from the right
one. Finally, get the *BEAN*
from the upper right corner of
the cloud, and the second *BEAN*
from the lower left corner, and
get off the cloud through the
hole in the upper left corner.
When you land on the upper ledge
near the Pidgit, immediately
switch your control to the Big
Bros, and walk back right until
you are back at the platforms
you previously ignored.

From here, jump up the two
steps, and spin jump across the
tall platform to the twister.
Now both Mario and Luigi will
spin faster, and will able to
move a longer distance. So spin
out of the tornado left, and you
will land on a ledge seeing
Kamek. She will see you, get
scared and will fly away. Now
follow her by continuing across
the path, and spin into another
tornado when you get to the
second part of the island. Like
before, use the extra spin to go
left across the long gap, and
you will meet the little Tykes
here. Get them on your back, and
kill another Pidgit that is
flying over your heads. After
killing him, jump up the cliffs
ahead of you (to your left), and
go up the pathway to get to the
next island. Here, fight both of
the Coconutters walking around,
and get the 3 Green Shells from
the '?' block in the lower left
corner. Now jump up the cliffs
in front of you, and use the
twister to spin jump to the tall
platform to your right (remember
to throw off the Tykes from your
back). On this cliff, kill
another Pidgit, get the 1-Up
Mushroom from the L block, and
hit the purple '!' block near
the fire. This will cause a
piece of the cliff to lower
allowing the Babies to access a
hidden tunnel. So get the Babies
on the lowered cliff and drill
through the metal fence to get
into the small cave.

In here, grab the 10 coins from
the '?' block, kill the
Gnarantulas in front of you, and
go left across the steps to get
to another yellow trampoline.
Jump up the trampoline to get on
a really tall cliff, and kill
the Pidgit to your right (it
will be tough) near the water
fountain. After killing the
Pidgit, drink up a drop of
water, drop down the right side
of the cliff to get back to the
Big Brothers, but don't fall in
the ditch near the fire! If you
fall in the short ditch, you
will not be able to douse the
fire and will have to get back
to the fountain on the tall
cliff. Instead, stay on the
upper part of the cliff, align
yourself behind the fire (not to
close), and spit out the water
to put it out. Now spit out the
rest of the water if you have
any, get back with the Big
Brothers, and walk up the
pathway you opened to get into
the next area.

In here, kill the Coconutter
ahead of you, and continue to
walk left across the pathway.
Kill another Coconutter and
another annoying Pidgit, throw
the Babies off your back, and
jump up the stairs until you are
on the tall cliff (ignore the
trampoline at your left). Now
you will see a twister moving
back and forth above the wide
gap (between the two tall
platforms). Your goal is to spin
into the twister right when it
moves towards you, and use its
extra power to go past the gap.
When you are successfully on the
platform near the big blue
button, take control of the
Babies, and make them jump up
the trampoline to the left of
the first tall cliff. Now that
you are on the long cloud, drill
the X right above the hole to
get a *BEAN*, and hit the '?'
switch to get a pair of Super
Mushrooms. After getting these
goodies, kill another Gnarantula
(paired up with a Pidgit), get
another *BEAN* from another X,
and hit the '?' block to get
tree Smash Eggs. Fight against
another Gnarantula, grab another
*BEAN*, and hit the third '?'
block for 3 Cannonballers (do
you smell a boss battle coming
up?). After getting all of these
goodies, fall down the gap at
the right end of the cloud, and
meet up with the Big Brothers.
Now step on the big blue button
to get into the last part of
Yoshi's Island, heal yourself
using Mushroom Drops, and save
with the Save Block. Now walk
right to see Kamek watch Baby
Bowser eat the cookies and the
rest of the cut scene, and you
will fight against Kamek when
Baby Bowser gets really angry
and leaves.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------
Boss Battle: Kamek
------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 450
Experience Points: 130


When you first meet Kamek, she
will randomly throw objects at
one of the Brothers (at Mario
for the first attack). Whip out
your hammers and hit away all of
the falling spiked balls
(release your hammers when it is
halfway down the second screen).
DO NOT hit away the falling
Mushrooms, as they will heal you
when they touch you. If you
successfully hit the spiked
balls away from you, the balls
will hit Kamek causing her to
take some damage (this works for
Mushrooms too so be very
careful). Mario and Luigi have a
good chance of getting dizzy if
they get hit by the spiked
balls, so be careful.

After her first attack, Kamek
will split into four different
clones and will end her turn.
Although all five Kamek look the
same, you can actually tell the
difference between the fake ones
and the real ones (although this
is quite tough). Now look at the
center of the circle of Kameks
and use your peripheral vision
to see which Kamek is slightly
shaking more than the other
four. When you found one which
Kamek is real, use Cannonballers
to heavily damage her. If you
cannot find out which Kamek is
real, you can simply use Bro
Flowers to eliminate the fake
ones.

After you damage Kamek enough to
make her fall off her Broom, she
will throw out a fireball to go
after both Brothers (it will go
for the first and circle to the
second). To dodge this, make
both Brothers jump at the same
time when the fire goes for
both, and the fire will hit
Kamek and cause her to shriek.
Quickly whip out your hammers,
and strike Kamek when she tries
to ram one of you (you might get
hit as this was unexpected).
Feel free to continue using
Cannonballers (or Green
Shells/Smash Eggs if you are
good with them). You will also
notice that you will deal more
damage because her defense has
been lowered when she was forced
off the broom.

After a few more turns, Kamek
will get back on her broom and
proceed with the spiked ball
attacks. Continue to deflect her
attacks and attacking her when
you can, and you will eventually
beat her after a few more turns
(if you used strong attacks)

Possible Items Obtained: Super
Drop (Every Time)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating the evil Bi-- err
I mean Witch, continue to walk
right across the pathway she is
in, and you will soon see Baby
Bowser eat the Cobalt Shards.
Watch the rest of the cut scene,
and you will end up in the Giant
Yoshi after he eats all of you.






================================
      Inside the Giant Yoshi
      [p9]
================================

Now you will be in the stomach
of the giant Yoshi (trying to
find a way out. Start by
throwing the Babies off your
back and making them jump up the
yellow trampoline. Now you will
see a Yoshi trying to push a
boulder, and he will request you
to find all of his friends to
help. After you stop talking to
the Yoshi, you will notice that
there are a crapload of beans
here!

Start by getting the *BEAN* to
the left of the Yoshi, the
*BEAN* near the Save Block, and
the *BEAN* below the large
boulder. After you get the first
three beans get the *BEAN* to
the right of the hole you
entered the room from, and pick
up another *BEAN* below the
purple tree stump. Now walk up
to the right side of the ground,
and get another *BEAN* to the
right of the tree stump. Pick up
yet another *BEAN* to the right
of the tree stump again, get the
*BEAN* near the upper right
corner of the room, and another
*BEAN* above the tree stump
(ignore the yellow Yoshi for
now). Continue to walk left
across the floor, and pick up
the *BEAN* to the right of the
heart block and the *BEAN* to
the left of it. Pick up the
*BEAN* in front of another tree
stump, the *BEAN* to the left of
it, and the final *BEAN* below
it.

After this crazy bean rush, get
back with the Big Brothers using
the regroup block, and save your
progress with the Save Block in
the lower left corner. Now it is
time to get all of the Yoshis
together to push the boulder
down the hole which is no easy
task. Start by going through the
green door near the Save Block,
and you will enter a room with a
Shroob controlling a toy bot.
When prompted to, jump on the
robot, and you will be thrown
into a battle against the
Shroob.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------
Enemy: RC Shroober
------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Hit Points: 60
Experience Points: 26


When you first battle the RC
Shroober, he will summon an
explosive robot to try to attack
you. Quickly jump over this bot
twice (as he will loop around
you), and it will eventually
blow up leaving you to attack
the RC Shroober. Try to kill him
quickly as his next attack is
also powerful (use items if you
need to).

If you didn't kill him yet, he
will control a saucer to try to
suck you up. Quickly whip out
your hammers, and hit the saucer
a split second after it sucks
you in (before you crash into
it), and it will crash back into
the RC Shroober if you
successfully hit the saucer
back. Continue to attack the RC
Shroober, and it will eventually
die after a few more blows.
Smash Eggs are effective against
these guys.

Possible Items Obtained:
Cannonballer, Ultra Shroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you kill this RC Shroober,
you will free the Red Yoshi
allowing him to help the Green
Yoshi push the boulder down the
hole. Now hit the '?' block
below you to get 10 coins, and
drill through the X to get
another *BEAN*. Now get back out
of the small room you are in,
and enter the green door in the
upper left corner to save the
next Yoshi. Hit the L block in
the upper right corner to get
two Super Mushrooms, and go back
to down below the door of the
jail cell to fight Dry Bones.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Dry Bones
----------------

Difficulty: Easy
Hit Points: 44
Experience Points: 32


Ah, good ol' Dry Bones. You may
remember him as a great
character from Mario Kart DS,
but he is back on the bad side
in this game.

Anyway, Dry Bones has one attack
that is fairly simple to dodge.
He will spin around his head (or
clamp his jaws) and will throw
two or three bones at the
Brothers (in no particular
order). The only tricky part of
dodging this attack id that the
Bone may jump over your head
(meaning you will hit it if you
jump). Fortunately, you can
easily tell where the bone is
heading by looking at Dry Bones
when he throws it. If he jumps
when he throws the bone, don't
jump as it will soar over your
head, but make sure you jump if
Dry Bones doesn't jump when he
throws or the bone will hit you.
You can also see how many bones
he will throw at you by looking
at Dry Bones head before he
throws. If he spins his head, he
will throw three, but if he
clamps his jaw, he will throw
only two.

Continue to attack the Dry Bones
in this way until they die
giving you a good amount of
Experience Points.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the Dry Bones,
walk all the way to the left to
get a coin from the '?' block,
and throw the Babies off your
back. Now make the Babies walk
to the upper right corner near
the two switches. If you look at
the light bulbs above the
switches, it will show you that
you have to get the first switch
blue and the second one yellow.
You can do this by hammering the
buttons so they change to the
correct color. If you got the
buttons to the right color, a
fence will open up below the
light bulbs. So drill through
fence and you will enter a
strange room with a lot of
switches (16 to be exact). Now
take control of the Big
Brothers, and look at the light
bulbs near the entrance of the
jail cell to memorize the light
patterns. Now take the Babies to
the upper left side of the room
(up the two stairs), and start
to hit the switches on this
upper row to match the ones
shown on the light bulbs. After
you successfully changed the
pattern of the colors (blue,
blue, yellow, yellow, red, blue,
red, yellow), get to the bottom
level of the cave and change the
colors of the buttons there (the
pattern is the same from right
to left). Now the jail door will
open freeing the Yoshi, but
before you actually talk to him,
get the Babies back with the Big
Brothers, and make them get the
*BEAN* from the X in the ground.
Talk to the Blue Yoshi to make
him help his friends, and get
out of the small room you are in
to get back to the main one.

Back here, walk right, heal with
the heart block if you need to,
and enter the next green door to
get to a room full of Bullies
(seriously). Jump on one of
these strange cow-looking
enemies to fight them.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------
Enemy: Bully
------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 35
Experience Points: 17


The Bully does not seem like a
hard enemy at first, but he will
become more deadly as the battle
progresses on. Use simple
jumping techniques to attach
him, or Green Shells if you have
plenty to spare. Bro Flowers are
effective against the Bullies at
they deal a good amount of
damage and will not get them
angry.

Now the Bully you attack will
grow angry and will be stronger
and faster when he attacks. To
counter attack a normal Bully,
jump a split second after he
starts charging towards you. If
you missed him, wait another
second before jumping again
because he will try to attack
the same Brother from behind.
The powered up Bullies on the
other hand are harder to counter
attack because they are faster.
To try to avoid getting hit,
jump right before he starts to
ram into you. Note that if you
attack a Bully and not kill it,
it will simply just get stronger
every turn, so kill them fast!

Continue to attack the Bullies
one at a time, and you will come
out victorious.

Battle Tip: You may notice that
some Bullies are paired up with
Dry Bones. If this is the case,
attack the Dry Bones first and
try to drain down the HP of the
Bullies using counter attacks
(it won't get them angry).


Possible Items Obtained: Ice
Flower
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the first Bully,
get the three Ice Flowers from
the M block to your right (these
are effective against Bullies
too), and kill two more Bullies
roaming around the left side of
the room.

Now that the Bullies are taken
care of, use the Babies to get
the *BEAN* in the lower left
corner of the room. After
getting the bean, use the Big
Brothers to get the 10-coin
pieces from the M block (hit
rapidly), the coin from the '?'
block, and the Puffy Trousers
from the L one. The Puffy
trousers are very good, so equip
it to the Brother with the
lowers Defense/HP stats. Grab
three more Ice Flowers from the
L block in the lower left corner
of the room, and exit through
the door to get back to the main
area. Here, heal with the heart
block if you need to, and go
through the green door in the
upper right side of the main
room (ignore the Yellow Yoshi
for now).

When you enter this room, you
will immediately notice that
there is a spiked pit in the
middle of the room with s Pink
Yoshi stuck in the middle of it.
To save the Yoshi, throw the
Babies off your back after
jumping up the stairs, and hop
up the trampoline to your right
to get in the upper floor of the
room. On this floor, hit the L
block for another three Ice
Flowers (they will be useful),
and use them to kill both
Bullies to your left. After
killing the Bullies, hit the '?'
block in the lower left corner
to get twenty coins, and walk up
to see five holes. Two of these
holes lead to the spiked pit,
one of them leads to a platform
with a bean, another leads back
to the ground, and the last one
leads to the pink Yoshi. Before
going for the Yoshi, drop down
the hole to your far right to
get the *BEAN* from the
platform, and touch the spikes
to get thrown back near the Big
Brothers. Jump up the trampoline
again, and fall down the middle
pit to get on the platform with
the pink Yoshi. Hit the blue
button on the wall to produce a
bridge across the pit, and the
pink Yoshi will automatically
help the others (only two more
to go!).

Use the bridge to get back with
the Big Brothers, and exit the
room you are in to get back to
the main room. Now talk to the
poor yellow Yoshi we have been
ignoring for some time and you
will learn that he wants some
fruit. There are three purple
tree trucks scattered around the
ground, one which contains the
fruit. So drop down the one
directly below the Yoshi to find
the '?' block with the fruit
(use the Big Brothers to get
it). Before you feed the fruit
to the Yoshi, you should get the
other goodies in the other tree
trunks. So drop down the tree
trunk in the lower right corner
to fight another Bully, and go
into the tree trunk to your far
left to see two item blocks. Hit
the M block to get the 1-Up
Super, and the '?' block to get
a 100-coin piece (race to get it
before it disappears). Now exit
the tree trunk, get back with
your Brothers, and feed the
fruit to the poor Yoshi to get
him to help the others pushing
the boulder.

Sadly, you need to get one more
Yoshi to make the boulder move.
So enter the room in the lower
right corner, and you will see
another RC Shroober on the other
side of a wall harassing the
last Yoshi. So throw the Babies
off your back, make them drill
through the fence in front of
you, and get Baby Mario to drink
a few drops of water. After Baby
Mario drinks up his fill, walk
to the lower right cornet of the
room (facing through the
window), and spit out your water
to attack the saucer. To easily
do this, spit when the saucer is
on the left side (it will move
in the trajectory of the water
drop). Repeat this once more
(when the saucer is buzzing),
and it will explode making a
hole in the wall blocking your
path. Spit out any unnecessary
water, get back on the backs of
your Big Brothers, and walk in
front of the RC Shroober to
fight him. After you kill him,
the blue Yoshi will thank you
and help the others push the
rock down. Before you get back
in the main area, grab the
lonely *BEAN* to your right in
the X. When you walk back out of
the room, the Yoshis will
successfully push the boulder
down and jump down the hole
themselves. Group up with the
Babies, save with the Save Block
in the lower left corner of the
area, and drop down the hole
(that you came from) to continue
your adventure.

Back where you started, walk
left across the now opened
pathway, and get the three
Cannonballers and three Smash
Eggs from both '?' blocks. Kill
another Dry Bones near the
curve, and go down the curved
pathway to fight another Dry
Bones. After you kill him,
continue up the rest of the
pathway, kill the RC Shroober
(careful as there might be two
of them), and get the 1-Up
Mushroom from the '?' block.
Continue across the rest of the
winding path making sure you
kill the Dry Bones and the RC
Shroober on your way, and go
through the green door to your
right to get to the next area.

In this small room, go down the
blue pipe, and save with the
Save Block when you end up in
the stomach of the giant Yoshi.
Go down the door to get to the
next area, and you will see a
slightly disturbing cut scene.
After this scene, hit the '?'
block below you to get another
four Cannonballers, and go even
more down to fight another RC
Shroober. After killing him, hit
another '?' block to get a coin,
kill the Dry Bones to your left,
and hit the third block to get a
Mushroom Drop. Continue going
left (go between the two egg
machines) to fight another pair
of RC Shroobers, and to get four
Green Shells from the '?' block.
Staying on this side of the
room, go all the way down to go
through a door that leads to
another room. In here, you will
see two eggs in two glass blocks
to your right, and will see four
Yoshis try to move another
boulder away from the exit.
Obviously you have to free the
Yoshis from the eggs, but before
you do that, get the 70 coins
from the M block and the 3 Super
Mushrooms from the L block in
the lower right corner. Now
throw the Babies off your back,
and make them jump up the
trampoline in the upper left
corner to get them in the upper
floor. In here, drink a few
drops of water from the fountain
ahead of you, and stand on the
small ledge sticking out facing
right. Now align the Big
Brothers under the first egg
block, and make them hit it so
the egg shoots up. Shoot the egg
with water when it falls down
again, and it will break against
a white ball if you hit it. Now
the blue Yoshi will break out of
the egg and help the others push
the boulder. Do the same thing
with the other egg (shoot
earlier as it is further away),
and it will free the Pink Yoshi
who will help the rest of the
Yoshis push the boulder away.
After the Yoshis cheer and run
through the door, get the Babies
back with the Big Brothers, and
follow the Yoshis to the next
room.

This is a large room with lots
of enemies and goodies, so heal
up before you proceed. Now kill
the Dry Bones below you, hit the
'?' block to get a coin, and
walk back up to the right to see
another block. Hit this block to
get three Cannonballers, and
fight Both RC Shroobers to your
right (these guys are getting
annoying...). After beating
every last enemy in this room,
grab the 4 Ice Flowers from the
'?' block, and throw the Babies
in the tree trunk for two more
Super Drops. Use the trampoline
to get out, and use the Big
Brothers to throw the Babies in
the second tree trunk to the far
left to fight a Bully (possibly
paired up with Dry Bones). After
getting your experience points,
get back as a group of four
after leaving the tree trunk,
and go down the door near the
bottom right corner (ignore the
blue button for now). This room
has no enemies and will have a
few hidden items. Start by
talking to the light Blue Yoshi
to your left to get a 1-Up
Super, and the Red Yoshi to the
left of the Light Blue one for a
Drain Badge (equip it to Mario).
Talk to the Blue Yoshi in the
lower left corner for four more
Smash Eggs. Now get the Babies
off your back and make the drill
the X in the ground for a
*BEAN*. There is another
*BEAN* in the X under the High
 Coin Block, so get it, and make
 the Big Brothers
meet up with the Babies there to
get another 400 (hopefully)
coins from the block. After
getting all of the goodies here,
get out of this room, and press
the blue switch you previously
ignored to get into a room with
a strange Blue Toad. Watch the
rest of the cut scene, and go
through the door to get to the
room with the Save Block. Grab
the *BEAN* in the lower right
corner in this room, heal your
Brothers (and equip the Babies
with the Unarmed Jeans), and
save before going through the
door ahead of you.

After making sure you are ready
to fight a boss battle, go
through the door, watch the cut
scene, and you will be thrown
into a fight against Sunnycide.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------------
Boss Battle: Sunnycide
----------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 30 per Egg, 450 for
Sunnycide Experience Points: 260


When you first enter this
battle, Sunnycide will start to
suck you in his mouth. Quickly
make Baby Mario whip out his
hammer, and strike Sunnycide
before he eats you to counter
attack him. If he sucks you in,
he will deal around 10 damage to
you and suck up the HP for
himself!

After this nasty attack, you
will notice that Sunnycide will
have five eggs surrounding him.
Each egg contains a Yoshi that
will greatly help you if you
free five of them. To attack the
eggs, don't use Ice Flowers or
Smash Eggs (as they are
relatively ineffective), but
simply jump on them to cause
them to break one by one (you
may have to jump on them twice
if you are not powerful enough).
After you destroy the first two
eggs, Sunnycide will pound the
ground to get back his lost
eggs, and will randomly throw
three of four eggs at you. You
can easily tell which Brother he
will aim for by looking at his
target screen, so jump right
when he shoots to dodge (or jump
off of) them. Note that
Sunnycide will also use his suck
attack, so be prepared when he
does! Keep freeing the Yoshis
from the green eggs, and they
will throw the boulder down when
you have five. Now Sunnycide
will flip over and will be a lot
more vulnerable to attacks.

Although Sunnycide is now down
on the ground, he still can
attack. He will first pull a
chain from the ceiling to
quickly open a hole in the
ground below one of the
Brothers. Jump over this hole by
jumping a second after he pulls
the switch, or the Brother will
fall through the ground, loop
around the area and take 10
damage! You can tell which
Brother he is aiming for by
looking at the hand he pulls the
chain with (right is Mario and
left is Luigi). This attack is
usually done twice, so never
keep your guard down. After he
is done attacking you, bombard
Sunnycide with your strongest
weapons you got (Cannonballers
and shells are good). Sometimes
when Sunnycide pulls the chain,
the lights will go out and he
will send a Boo to attack you.
These guys are easy to dodge so
simply hammer them when there
are in your view (although they
will steal an item if they hit
you). After two more turns, he
will get back up and start to
throw eggs at you again.

Continue to attack Sunnycide
this way, and he will die.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you beat Sunnycide (it
should take two or three more
flips), watch the rest of the
cut scene, jump through the hole
in the back of the room, and you
will exit the giant Yoshi out of
his err... bottom. Now you will
be back in Yoshi's Island, so
walk through the back of the
house (not across the wooden
bridge), and save with the Save
Block. Exit through the front
door, watch another cut scene,
and you will finally be
teleported back to the Castle
after you recover the Cobalt
Shards.






================================
      Peaches Castle (present)
      [p10]
================================

Now that you are back in the
library, walk downstairs using
the staircase to your right (get
the seven coins and the Mushroom
from the '?' blocks), and be
ready to buy some more items and
equipment.


--------------------------------
Second Shop Stop (2000 coins):

Now you are probably still low
on coins (around 2000), so you
have to choose only the best
items. Don't get anything from
the items section as you
probably have a good deal of
Mushrooms, but pick up a few
Cannonballers and Ice Flowers as
they will be useful (get 5 of
each).

Now with 1800 coins to spare, go
to the equipment shop and pick
up two Egg Pants and only one
pair of Shell Slacks (the Puffy
Trousers is about as good as the
Shell Slacks). Equip the Shell
Slacks to the Bro who doesn't
have the Puffy Trousers, and put
the Egg Pants on Both Babies.
Now go the Badge section and
pick up two Cure Badges (if you
have enough money). If you
cannot afford two badges, put
the Cure Badge on the Brother
who has less health.
--------------------------------


Now that you got all the
equipment, save with the Save
Block in the center of the
castle, and talk to the
Professor to learn about a new
time hole that leads to the
Shroob Castle. Don't go heading
to that time hole yet (because
you cannot access it), instead
go down to the garden to talk to
the two Toadsworths to learn a
new move.


********************************
------------------
Tutorial: Bro Roll
------------------

After the Toadsworths stop
talking, press R to prepare your
Bro Moves, and press A to get
into position. Simply roll right
to go across the wavy bridge,
and jump up the cliff when it
stops you. Now the Toadsworths
will tell you that you can roll
under low bridges. So roll under
the bridge in front of you
(don't worry about the steep
drops), and you will finally end
this easy tutorial when you talk
to the Toadsworths again.


After you mastered the roll
technique, walk back to the
middle room to save, and walk to
the room with the '?' in it (it
is left of the fist main
hallway). Now you will see a
strange gear on the left wall.
So throw the Babies off your
back, and roll into the gear to
make it spin. You will see the
meter level go up, and a pipe
will appear in the middle of the
room after the meter reaches the
max.
********************************


Now get the Babies back off your
back, and step on the pipe to
get into the sewers of the
Castle.






================================
        Castle Sewers [p10a]
================================

The Castle Sewers is nothing
more than the basement of
Peaches Castle. There are quite
a few item blocks which contain
coins, Mushrooms, and Bro Items
that will greatly help you on
your quest. Although the items
around here are nice (the item
blocks are mostly found at the
bottom part and the uppermost
part of the area), the main
attraction is the secret bean
shop here. To get to the shop,
go to the third room to your far
right, and use the Babies to dig
through the third pipe in the
lower right corner. You will
know that you will get into the
correct room when you see a
strange figure enter one of the
pipes. Now that you are in the
pipes, continue to walk forward
(take left and right turns when
necessary), and you will soon
see a small shop with Fawful at
the counter. Talk to Fawful to
learn about the beans, and buy
some badges if you have enough
beans (note that Stache points
will not help you here). The
best badges to buy here are the
Treasure, EXP Badge A and the
Ulti-Free badge. Do not waste
your beans on the other badges
as they are not that helpful.
After getting the badges you can
afford, get back out of the
castle sewers through the blue
pipe in the room to your far
left.

Now that you have met Fawful and
explored the rest of the sewers,
get back up the blue pipe (in
the left room) to get back on
the ground of the castle. From
here, go up the left set of
stairs to get to the second
floor, and save with the Save
Block when you do. Walk up the
path ahead of you to get to the
center bridge, and walk right on
the bridge until you see the
intersection. Now go up this
pathway to get to a very tall
room, throw off the Babies off
your back, and hit the L block
to your right for a 1-Up
Mushroom. There is a purple '!'
switch to your left near a toad.
Your goal is to hit the switch,
roll up the stairs and hit the
other within 25 seconds to open
up the door blocking the time
portal. So hit the switch and
the timer will start to tick.
Quickly get in position, and
roll up the pathway and turn
right onto the stair case. Roll
up the long staircase, and make
two quick right turns onto the
second staircase when you reach
the right side. Repeat this two
more times, but keep rolling up
the pathway when you pass the
fourth staircase. When you see
the gate after the final right
turn, quickly stop rolling,
press R to get back to jumping
position (many people forget to
do this), and press the '!'
switch to your right to open up
the gate. Still controlling the
Big Brothers, walk through the
gate, get the Babies with the
regroup block, but make sure you
get the
*BEAN* at the left of the room
 and another *BEAN* to the right
 before actually
regrouping. Now jump through the
time portal to get to Gritzy
Desert (a long and annoying
level).






================================
  Gritzy Desert [p11]
================================

After you travel through the
portal, you will land in a small
area in the desert. Walk up the
pathway, save with the Save
Block to your right, and throw
the Babies on the cliff ahead of
you to get the Ultra Shroom from
the M block. Regroup with the
Adults, walk left until you see
a stone pathway, and step on the
blue switch to open up the green
door. Instead of you going in, a
crapload of Shroobs will come
out! So watch the rest of the
cut scene, and you will learn
that you have to press four
switches to continue your quest,
and it is not easy. Now that you
are all together again, walk to
the upper left corner of the
room, and hit the '?' block to
get 2 Refreshing Herbs. Now
throw the Babies off your back
once again, and make the Big
Brothers climb up the platform
below you to get 2 1-Up
Mushrooms from the L block. Now
spin to your right to fly over
the second platform, and to land
on the third one with an M
block. Rapidly hit the block to
get 70 coins, drop back to the
ground, and regroup with the
Babies. Finally, go into the
next area through the pathway at
your left, and here is where the
real adventure begins.

Start by hitting the '?' block
to your left for 6 Green Shells,
continue to walk left across the
cactus, and you will se a Shroob
digging in the ground. Step on
it when he pops up to fight this
new enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------
Enemy: Shrooba Diver
--------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 65
Experience Points: 32


When you first encounter this
pest, he will probably dig
partially into the ground and
throw a green spiked ball at
you. Dodge these balls by simply
jumping right when he throws
them (no earlier).

Shrooba Diver is vulnerable to
jumping attacks, so save your
items and simply jump on him.
After you attack him, this guy
will dig into the ground again
(digging forward this time),
jump out of the ground and try
to smack you head on. Counter
this attack by quickly whipping
out your hammers, and smacking
the enemy a split second after
he starts falling to your head.
If the Shrooba Diver hits you,
you will take quite a bit of
damage and might get Dizzy. If
this happens, use a Refreshing
Herb and continue to attack him
(jumping without using items).

The Shrooba Diver might dig
halfway underground and may swim
towards one of you. Counter
attack this attack by jumping
when the diver is halfway across
the field. If you miss the
counter attack, the Shrooba
Diver will loop around to the
other Brother, so be careful!

Sometimes the Shrooba Diver will
be tricky and throw a guppy at
you. These guppies will hit you
if you jump, so stand your
ground if he throws these to
dodge them. Continue to attack
the Shrooba Diver in this way,
and you will easily beat him
quickly.

Possible Items Obtained: Super
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing this mole, hot the
'?' block in front of you to get
4 more Ice Flowers, and continue
to walk left to see a new enemy,
a Pokey. Step on this Pokey to
deal some damage and to fight
him for the first time.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------
Enemy: Pokey
------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 60
Experience Points: 36


Pokeys are fairly slow, so you
can deal some damage to him
before he attacks you. As you
notice, Pokey will grow three
segments and will be very tall.
If you have a strong power
status, attack him by jumping on
his head to hurt him. If you are
strong enough, you can kill him
in two turns. If you figured out
that two jumps will not kill
him, hammer one of his segments
to make him shorter next time
you fight these guys.

When Pokey attacks, he will walk
up between the Brothers, and
throw his segments in the air at
you. Whip out both your hammers,
and watch which Brother he is
attacking by looking at the
shadow. Now smack away the
segments by swinging your
hammers when the segments are
right about to hit the Brother.
You have to do this quickly four
times to get rid of the segments
and counter attack Pokey himself
(which is difficult).

Sometimes, Pokey will try to ram
you. Just jump right when he
starts running to counter attack
him, but this gets harder if
Pokey has more segments on him
(it will be impossible to dodge
if he has all three segments).
Pokey can also use a needle
attack (he will shoot three
needles (one that will aim for a
Brother). This attack is easy to
dodge as you only have to jump
right when the second needle has
been shot. This attack is
sometimes many time in a row so
be careful.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you killed your first
Pokey, continue combing the
desert by up near the left wall
(lame Spaceballs reference), and
kill another Pokey and the
Shrooba Diver when you pass the
cliff with a '?' block. Now walk
to your right, grab the *BEAN*
from the patch of stone, and
walk all the way up to fight one
more Shrooba Diver and another
Pokey. Ignore the Split Blocks
to your left for now, and hit
the '?' block in the upper left
corner for 10 coins. Now that
the Desert is clean of most
enemies, you can walk around to
get the goodies from the blocks.
So walk to the far right side of
this area, and get an Ultra Drop
from the L block between the
cactuses. Grab the single coin
from the upper right corner from
the '?' block, and walk down
until you see a wooden pipe.
Before entering the pipe, kill
the Pokey that roams around
below you. After the Pokey is
dead, throw the Babies in the
pipe, and make them hit both '?'
blocks for 100-coins (make the
Big Brothers get it), and two
Super Drops. After getting the
goodies, get back out of the
pipe to get back on the Big
Brothers' backs, and walk up the
pathway to get to the next area
(the '?' block on the tall
platform cannot be reached right
now).

In here, continue to walk up,
kill another Shrooba Digger (in
the middle of the field), and
walk left when you hit the wall.
Kill the Pokey here, grab the
*BEAN* from the X in the patch
 of ground, and get another 10
 coins from the '?'
block. Ignore the Split Blocks
below you for now, and walk to
the upper right corner where you
will see many platforms with
blocks. Grab another *BEAN* from
the patch in the ground near the
second cliff, kill the Pokey
after getting back on the Big
Brothers' backs, and throw the
Babies off once more. Walk up
the platform (using the slant)
directly to your left, and spin
jump to the platform below you
(slightly to the left) to get
the 70 coins from the M block.
The other platform is
inaccessible for now, so you can
safely ignore it. So walk right
instead, kill another Shrooba
Digger, and rapidly hit the '?'
block right of the pipe for a
few coins. Kill the Digging
Shrooba and the Pokey to your
right (to many of these), and
walk down to the lower right
corner. Dispose of another
Shrooba Digger, hit the '?'
block for four Ice Flowers, and
dig in the patch again for
another *BEAN*. Now that all of
the enemies are taken care of,
walk to the upper right corner
of the area, and walk through
the right path to get to the
next one.

In here, you will see a single
Monty Mole sitting near a Purple
'!' block. Ignore the Monty
Mole, throw the Babies off your
back, and make the Big Brothers
hit the block to start an 18
second timer. Now quickly roll
to your right, and navigate
across the maze to the Purple
'!' block on the right side. To
navigate, go right, and make a
quick right turn when you see
the first hole in the cactus
line. Make another right turn to
go back, and make two quick left
turns to continue rolling
forward. Try to dodge the weird
looking ramps as the will slow
you down, and go up when you see
another long line of cactus.
Turn back right when you are at
the intersection, get out of
your rolling stance, and hit the
purple '!' block to open up the
gate blocking your path. Before
you go past the gate, roll back
across the maze, and stop when
you are at the bottom of the
area (right when you pass the
two ramps). Now hit the M block
for a Max Mushroom, hit the L
block for 4 Pocket Chomps, and
hit the '?' block in the upper
left corner for 20 coins. Now
take control of the Babies, make
them walk across the maze until
they are near you, and dig in
the patch (on the X) for yet
another *BEAN*. Get back
together as a group of four once
again, and navigate through the
maze one last time until you are
near the opened gate again. Grab
the coin and the 2 Super
Mushrooms before you go to the
next area by walking down.

You will again be in a large
desert with a Bob-omb walking
around below you. Jump on the
Bob-omb to fight this new enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------
Enemy: Bob-omb
--------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 25
Experience Points: 30


Bob-ombs almost always come in
groups and are sometimes paired
up with Shrooba Diggers. Don't
waste your items on these guys
as they have a relatively low HP
(they can be killed in one shot
by jumping). The bad part of the
Bob-ombs is that they have an
explosive attack (ha ha) and can
be very fast. You will also
notice that if you hit the Bob-
ombs without killing them, they
will ignite and will attack you.

A normal Bob-omb will usually
simply run into you which can be
easily dodged (or counter
attacked) by jumping right when
he starts to run (after his
quick hop). Note that
counterattacking a Bob-omb will
not light up his fuse. An
ignited Bob-omb on the other
hand will quickly walk between
both Brothers, and will randomly
explode into one dealing quite a
bit of damage. So quickly pull
out your hammers, and swing when
the Bob-omb is walking in front
of you to cause it to explode
(regardless of health
remaining). If the Bob-omb
explodes in your face (if you
didn't hit it in time), you will
take ~18 damage and might get
dizzy. Keep attacking these
suicide bombers (another lame
pun) until they die or blow up.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing your first set of
Bob-ombs, kill the Shrooba Diver
near the lone cactus, and get
the 4 Pocket Chomps from the '?'
block near it. Now walk to the
upper left side of the desert,
hit the '?' block to get 10
coins, and rapidly hit the '?'
block near the circular cactus
below you for a few coins. Kill
the Bob-omb running around you
and walk to the right side of
the cactus cluster until you see
a patch. Use the Babies to get
the *BEAN* from the X marker
(like always), and kill the
single Shrooba Diver and two
more Bob-ombs below you to get
some more experience (one Bob-
omb is below the pipe). After
clearing this part of the area
of enemies, throw the Babies
into the pipe where one of the
Bob-ombs used to run around, and
make them get the 100-coin piece
and the Big-POW Badge from the
'?' and M block. Equip the Big-
POW badge to one of the Big
Brothers if you like to use
attack items (don't sacrifice a
Cure Badge for it). After
getting the goodies, get back on
the Big Brothers' backs, and
walk directly right until you
see the '?' block. Get the
measly coin from that block,
kill yet another Bob-omb ahead
of you, and kill one last
Shrooba Diver as you continue to
go up the right side of the
desert. Now that all of the
enemies are taken care of and
all accessible items are gotten,
get to the next area by going
straight down the pathway.

In here, immediately kill
another Bob-omb that is trying
to block your path, and walk to
the right side of the area to
get 2 Super Mushrooms from the
'?' blocks. Walk straight down,
get the 10 coins from another
'?' block near the wall, and
throw the Babies down the pipe
in the lower right corner for
100- coins. After getting the
large coin, get back on the Big
Brothers' backs, and hit the M
block on the left side of the
pipe for 4 Ice Flowers. Kill the
Bob- omb before it explodes on
your head, and dig (using the
Babies) on the X in the patched
ground for another *BEAN*. After
getting the bean, get back as a
group of four, and walk left
across the short cliff to kill
another Shroob Digger. After
killing this pest, throw the
Babies off your back, and walk
up the slant of the tall cliff
using the Big Brothers. Use the
Spin Jump to get to the cliff to
your upper left (this might be
tough), and hit the block to get
an Ultra Drop. Now get back with
the Babies, and walk left until
you see the Bob- omb and the '?'
block. Hit the block to get 3
Pocket Chomps, and kill another
Bob-omb when it stops running
around.

Instead of going to the next
area as you usually do, this
time, stand under the Split
Blocks (in the middle of the
area) without hitting it, and
throw the Babies off your back.
Align the Babies under the Split
Blocks without hitting them, and
put the Big Brothers in a
rolling position. Your goal is
to get the Big Brothers in the
upper left corner of the Desert
(look at your map on the upper
screen at the second large area
you visited). This can be easily
done by rolling back three areas
because you disposed of all of
the enemies already. So do so by
shooting up the first area, and
navigating through the maze in
the second area (the cactuses
will stop your roll). Now that
you reached your destination,
walk under the Split Blocks here
(to the far left), and hit both
of them using any Brother you
desire. After hitting the first
two Split Blocks, the energy
will move to the Split Blocks
over the Babies. So make the
Babies hit the Split Blocks
within 10 seconds, and the two
skulls of the Dry Bones will
shoot out a laser hitting the
shell block that guards the
Purple '!' switch you saw
earlier (the shield isn't
destroyed yet, so don't run to
it!).

Now that the first laser is set
up, walk the Babies to the room
above them, and walk the Big
Brothers to the room below them
(the first room). The Split
Blocks are in the upper middle
part of the room for the Babies
and at the upper left corner for
the Big Brothers. Hit these
Split Blocks like you did
earlier (Big Brothers first,
then Babies), and the second
laser will be shot out causing
the shell block to get
destroyed.

After the Purple '!' switch is
free to hit, walk the Big
Brothers to the area below you
(not to the switch just yet),
and regroup with the Regroup
block when you get there. From
this block, walk straight down,
kill the Shrooba Digger, and
walk right when you see the
platform with the L block
(inaccessible for now). Kill
another Shrooba Diver and the
single Pokey roaming around, and
jump to the ledge (near the long
sandy hill) to get the 3 Green
Shells from the '?' block. You
will see a golden cannon ahead
of you, but don't do anything
with it for now. Instead, walk
back up left to the Pipe, throw
the Babies down there, and then
make the Big Brothers roll into
the cannon's mouth. This will
cause the cannon to turn red
meaning it is ready to fire, so
take control of the Babies stuck
down in the pipe.

The bottom of the pipe will be a
little bit different from your
standard pipe as there is a
tunnel extending right. So walk
to the right side of the short
tunnel, whip out your hammers,
and whack the red switch to
cause the cannon to blast both
Mario and Luigi across the
cactus pit to the right side of
this area. Here, walk to the
upper right corner, and hit both
the M and the '?' block for 7
Pocket Chomps and 3 Ice Flowers
(handy). After getting these
goodies, walk straight down to
fight another Bob-omb, and get
back on the small hill to your
left to see a twister. Spin Jump
into this twister, and use the
extra power to fly across the
Cactus pit. Now get the Babies
out of the tunnel through the
trampoline, and get them back
with their big Brothers. Now
walk out of this area through
the pathway above you to get
back to the first area.

Now navigate to get back to the
area with the Koopa building,
and use the Babies (by throwing
them) to hit the Purple '!'
block on the cliff where it
resides. This will cause a
platform to descend from a
portion of the building (on the
left side). Now hop up the
cliffs staying to your left to
get a single coin from the '?'
block, and walk back down to the
center platform where two more
blocks reside (don't try to use
the Babies to get through the
window as it will not work).
Grab the 2 Super Mushrooms from
the '?' block, and get the many
10-coin pieces from the L block.
Walk to the upper right corner
of the cliffs to get 2 Red
Peppers from the '?' block (do
you smell a Boss Battle?). After
getting all of these items, walk
through the center door to enter
the Koopa shaped building.






================================
        Koopa Dome              
================================

In this small room, regroup if
you need to (you shouldn't have
to), and step on the blue pipe
to enter the middle of the
strange building. In here, save
with the Save Block, and step on
the blue button to get directly
outside of the stadium. Watch
the slightly disturbing cut
scene with Kylie Koopa, and
start walking left when it is
over. Enter the door on the left
side, and you will enter a room
with a Purple '!' switch. So
throw the Babies off your backs,
climb up the two platforms to
your left, and Spin Jump to the
Platform to your right to hit
the Purple '!' switch. Hitting
this switch will lower two
platforms on the wall ahead of
you making the tunnel
accessible. Still with the Big
Brothers, jump up the platforms
that were just lowered, and roll
left into the cave to get into a
tunnel. Stop rolling before you
fall into the spiked pit, and
Spin Jump across it. Get back
into rolling position, and roll
underneath the low wall to shoot
across a slant. Turn right when
you stop to continue rolling,
and continue to turn left and
right when you reach the walls
of the cave to eventually get to
the bottom of the cave. Go
through the cave to your right,
and stop rolling when you get
into another small room. Like
the room before, jump up the two
cliffs below you, and spin jump
right to get a few 10-coin
pieces from the M block (by
hitting it rapidly). Hit the
Regroup Block to get back with
the Little Tykes, and get out of
the room through the pathway in
the lower right corner.

In here, hit the two '?' blocks
to get 3 Cannonballers and 2
Refreshing Herbs, and throw the
Babies on the wall ahead of you
(to the right of the green
door). Hop up the steps using
the Babies, and enter the cave
to get onto another one of those
dark puzzles. Use Mario to hit
the large M block to turn on the
light for a few seconds, and
navigate the Babies across the
bridge (take a left at the
intersection) until you get to a
small platform with a '?' block.
Hit this block to get 20 coins,
and hit the Shine Block again to
brighten up the room. Walk back
across the pathway that you came
from, but stop at the
intersection. Hit the Shine
Block again when the lights go
out, and jump across the gap
(this is quite useless unless
you tend to get poisoned a lot).
Turn on the lights again, and
walk across the rest of the
bridge until you get to the
platform. Hit the Shine Block
again (be careful) and walk
across the thinning bridge to
get to another lit platform
(there is a gap in the bridge,
so be careful). Hit the Shine
Block again, and make the little
Tykes jump to the platform with
the '?' and M block shortly
after you walk on the bridge.
Hit both blocks to get an Ultra
Shroom (from the '?' block) and
the Adult Trousers (from the M
block). Equip the Adult Trousers
on the Brother who's Defense,
Speed, and Stache will be
increased (even if the HP gets
reduced). After you equip the
trousers, hit the Shine Block
again, jump down to the thin
bridge (be very careful when
doing this), and navigate across
the rest of the wavy bridge
(beware of the gap). After
navigate across the thin bridge,
exit the cave below you, and hit
the red button when you get on
the left ledge outside (don't
fall down, you don't want to
repeat the bridge navigating!)
to open up the purple door.
Before you get back with your
Big Brothers, get the *BEAN* in
the lower right corner of the
room back on the ground.

Now go through the door after
you regroup, jump up the steps,
heal your Brothers, and equip
the Unarmed Jeans on the Babies.
Save with the Save Block, and
jump on the blue panel to go all
the way up to the center stage
in the middle of the Shroob
crowd! Watch the rest of the cut
scene, and you will be thrown
into a battle against a monster
with a lollypop.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------------
Boss Battle: Shrooboid Brat
---------------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 1100
Experience Points: 400


Shrooboid Brat may seem easy,
but he is not. Start by jumping
on his head, and the brat will
look at the audience. Now all of
the Shroobs in the audience will
put up posters with either an M
or an L. The Brother which the
audience votes for will be the
Brat's target. After the
audience pulls the posters down,
the brat will throw his lollypop
at his target. Dodge this lethal
projectile by jumping a split
second after he pulls the candy
behind his head (this deals a
lot of damage).

Use Cannonballers to damage this
monster, or you can use Ice
Flowers to try to lower his
defense. Smash Eggs are very
effective against him, but use
Ice Flowers first to lower his
defense. After you damage him
for a second time, look at the
audience to see a few items
(usually Fire Flowers) moving
towards an M or an L. After the
final item has been moved, pull
out your hammers, and dodge the
fireballs he spits from his
mouth (swing your hammer shortly
after the fireballs' second
bounce. Sometimes you will see
some poison Mushrooms and some
regular Mushrooms enter his
mouth. In this case, the regular
Mushroom he ate will turn into a
poison Mushroom and visa versa.
So whack away the poison
Mushrooms he spits out, and let
the regular Mushrooms hit you.
The poison Mushroom will poison
you, so use a refreshing herb if
this happens. These bounce the
same way as Fire Flowers, so
deflect them in the same way
(swinging after the item's
second bounce).

Keep attacking the Brat in this
way and continue to deflect his
attacks but be careful!
Sometimes when the audience
votes, the M poster will have a
green background and the L
poster will have a red one. In
this case, use the letter to
decide which Brother he is
attacking (this is the same for
the item spit attack). The Brat
will also sometimes throw
multiple lollypops at you, so
never keep your guard down.

A third trick the audience may
pull is multiple voting, which
means they will pull out cards
three times with the Brothers
letter. The brat will attack the
Brothers in the order of the
winner of each of the three
votes.

Possible Items Obtained: Max
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you kill the ugly brat,
you will fall in a hole, and
will end up in an underground
cavern.






================================
       Under Gritzy Desert [p13]
================================

After the short cut scene, save
with the Save Block below you,
and throw the Babies off your
back (onto the short ledge). Now
make Baby Mario drink up a drop
of water from the fountain, and
make him douse the fire (stay on
the cliff). After the fire is
doused, walk up the pathway you
opened, and whack the crack in
the wall to open up the hole.
Don't worry about the Big
Brothers for now, and enter the
room to see a couple of Monty
Moles.


--------------------------------
Third Shop Stop (1250 Coins):


As you notice, you don't have
that many coins, so it is best
to buy only a few items, and
save the rest of your coins for
some better items at the Shop in
Peaches Castle.

The mole to your right is
selling some badges and clothes.
Some of the badges may seem
nice, but they are all risky to
use and cost a lot of coins
(there will be better badges
later). This goes same with the
slacks; both the Muscle and
Svelte Slacks can reduce your
defense by about 55 points! For
this sole reason, don't spend
even a coin on them. The Pants
for the Babies are a little
better and can be useful, but
because you are on a limited
budget, don't buy any.

After looking at the items from
the mole to the right, talk to
the left one to buy some items.
Don't get any of the healing
Mushrooms, but get some Bros
Items if you are low on them.
Pick up a few Bro Flowers and
some Green Shells if you need to
(only if you have under 10 for
each), and you will be good to
go. Do not buy and of the
trampolines because you will be
getting quite a few from item
blocks later in your quest.

After you buy the items, you
should have around 1000 coins
left.
--------------------------------


Now that you got the items, go
back through the tunnel you came
from, and save with the Save
Block one more time after
getting back with the Big
Brothers. Go through the pathway
on your right, and you will
enter the next room with a few
new enemies (some dangerous).
Hit the M block in front of you
to get 5 Trampolines, and hop on
the Dark Boo in front of you to
ignite another battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Dark Boo
---------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 35
Experience Points: 20


These Boos are very dangerous,
so dispose of them quickly
before they try to attack you.
They are low on health, so you
should be able to take care of
two before they attack.

When these Boos attack, they
will act like the classic Boo,
except they will move faster,
and will steal one of your
items! If this happens, you have
to quickly attack the Boo who
stole your item to get it back,
or it will run away. You will
know that you got your item back
if an object drops from the Boo
when he dies. Counter attack
this annoying attack by jumping
right when he appears behind
your back.

Don't use any flowers against
these Boos as they will only
deal 1 point of damage
regardless of how many times you
hit him. Continue to dodge or
counter attack the Boos, recover
any stolen items and you will be
rewarded with a fair amount of
experience points.

Possible Items Obtained:
Trampoline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing your first Dark
Boo, walk straight right, kill
another Dark Boo, and hit the
'?' block for 3 Smash Eggs. Kill
another two Dark Boos moving
around you to your right, and
hit another '?' block for 20
coins. After disposing of the
two Boos, climb up the strange
slope, and hit the Purple '!'
block to lower down two cliffs
to make it accessible to you.
Drop down from the slant after
hitting the block and walk back
across the area staying near the
upper wall. Grab the coins from
the '?' block, and kill two more
Dark Boos. Now throw the Big
Brothers off your back, and make
the Babies dig through the small
cage on the wall that you
previously passed (near the '?'
block with the coins). In this
small cave, get the 2 Blue
Peppers and the 2 Red peppers
from both '?' blocks, and
rapidly hit the L block in the
middle to get 70 coins. After
getting these goodies, exit out
of the cage, and switch your
control to the Big Brothers (you
can leave the Babies in the cave
for now). After you climb to the
top of the steep slant, roll
right across the bumpy ledges
(like in the tutorial). You will
automatically roll into the next
area.

Right when you enter this area,
you will see the Piranha Plant
eat up Kylie Koopa. So watch the
entire cut scene, and the
Piranha Plant will disappear in
the ground. Hit the Regroup
block in the lower right corner
to get back with the Babies, and
make them drill through the X to
your left to get a *BEAN* before
you actually regroup. Hit the
'?' block in the lower left
corner to get a coin, and get
the Ultra Drop from the M block
in the upper right one. After
this go down the pathway below
you to get into a weird area. In
here, ignore the upper ground
for now, and use the Babies to
get the *BEAN* in the lower
right corner (on the small
patch). After getting the bean,
walk back left, and kill the
Dark Boo after you pass through
the open door. Continue to
navigate left through the open
doors, and step on the strange
golden enemy when you see him in
the upper left corner.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------
Enemy: Snifaro
--------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 75
Experience Points: 50


These guys are strange, but are
probably easier than you think.
Attack these guys using normal
jumping attacks, and he will
attack you after initially
taking damage.

Snifaro has two attacks, both
which are easy to dodge. For one
attack, he will walk up to you,
and open up his coffin to reveal
another head. Now both heads
will shoot a bullet at you. To
dodge this attack, look at the
mouth of both heads. When one
mouth opens up the fire a
bullet, jump if it is the lower
head, but don't jump if it is
the upper. After you dodge the
first bullet, the other head
will shoot one at you, so dodge
it in the same way.

The other attack by the Snifaro
involves their head jumping on
the coffin body, and shooting
off into the air (I told you he
was weird). Look at the Snifaro
while he loops in the sky, and
jump right when he finishes
completing the loop counter
attack him. To find out which
Brother he is attacking, watch
the enemy's path when he flies
back to the ground (he may move
from side to side). After
killing this tough, but easy
enemy, you will be rewarded with
a great amount of Experience
Points and a few coins.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have killed your
first Snifaro, throw the Babies
off your back, and make them dig
through the fence ahead of you.
Now that you are in a small
cave, hit both '?' blocks to
your right to get 3 Trampolines
and a 20 coin piece. After
getting these items, get back on
your Brothers' back, and walk up
the slant to your right. Hit the
'?' block for 2 Bro Flowers, and
continue to navigate on the
upper level until you see the
door. Before you enter the door,
hit the '?' block to your right
for a measly 10-coin piece
(trust me, it will get better).
In this small room, you will see
a High Coin Block. Before
hitting it, use the Babies to
get the *BEAN* in the lower left
corner of the cave. Now hit the
High Coin Block in the correct
sequence for around 350 coins,
and exit the small cave after
getting them. Navigate back
across the high ground until you
get to the next area through the
door at your left.

In here, you will immediately
notice the rolling machine in
the upper left corner. So throw
the Babies off your back, and
make the Big Brothers roll into
the machine. Switch control to
the Babies, and make them dig
through the small fence to get
into yet another cave (keep the
Brothers Rolling). You will now
notice that there are random
items scrolling left to right in
a conveyor belt. Ignore the
Monty Mole in the upper left
corner, and drink up 5 drops of
water from the fountain. Align
Baby Mario so he is facing the
scrolling items on the conveyor
belt, but don't shoot out the
water yet. Instead, look at both
screens, and shoot only if the
item on the upper and lower
screen is the same. If you hit
the item at the proper time
(shoot right before the item
moves in your path), a star will
appear in one of the three
circles, and the roulette will
start again. You will notice
that both items are changing
directions, but this does not
pose of any problem. After
hitting the item when they both
are the same, you will see the
item on the bottom moves at an
insanely fast speed. There is no
need to panic as you simply have
to glance at the bottom item and
shoot at the upper one if it is
the same (even if the bottom one
goes off the screen). Now that
you have completed three pairs
of items, the bridge in the area
with the Big Brothers will be
complete allowing you to
continue your adventure. So get
back out of the cave, get on
your Brothers, and continue
across the bridge to the next
area.

You will see a Purple '!' switch
right when you enter this area.
Hit it, and it will cause one of
the pegs on the wall to push out
(so you can roll across all of
them). Don't roll across yet,
and hit the '?' block below you
to get a 20 coin piece. Now drop
in the pit below you to the
left, and fight all of the
enemies here (there are three
Dark Boos and a Snifaro). After
killing all of these guys and
getting your well deserved
experience points, grab the 3
Trampolines in the '?' block at
the bottom, and walk all the way
left to the next area. In here,
simply jump through the large
blue pipe to get into a
different part of the large
Desert (don't worry, this trip
will literary take seconds).
From this cliff, Luigi will
automatically hit the Purple '!'
block to your left to lower down
the cliffs. DO NOT walk down the
cliffs! Instead, jump back
through the pipe, and walk back
to the large area where you
fought the four enemies (this
trip was simply to bring the
cliffs down). Back in here, walk
up the slant in the upper left
corner, use the Babies to get
the
*BEAN* near the first peg, and
 proceed to roll across the pegs
 to the right
side of the area. Back on the
upper cliff, go across the path
in the lower right corner to get
into another small area, and
regroup with the Babies with the
regroup block near the blue
pipe. Jump down the blue pipe to
get into the next part of this
dungeon (this part of the
dudgeon is a lot shorter than
the first one).

Now save with the save Block in
the lower right corner (you
really should), and proceed
through the door at your right.
Now you will be in a long but
skinny area. So walk forward,
and throw the Babies to the
cliff on the wall when you get
stopped by the road block. As
the Babies, kill the two Bob-
ombs running around, and get the
2 Pocket Chomps and the coins
from the '?' blocks. Continues
through the path to the next
past of the cave you are in. In
here, you will see a Monty Mole
and a Purple '!' block to your
far right. Ignore the mole and
hit the Purple '!' block to
bring down the wall blocking the
Big Brothers' path. You have 20
seconds to roll across this wavy
pathway. So get rolling, and
stay on the bottom path for the
first three dips (ignore the two
item blocks for now). When you
get to the start of the fourth
dip, stop rolling, and jump to
the ledge to your right. Now
quickly roll right and hit the
Purple '!' block in time to
bring down the wall below you.
Now that you are on the right
side of the long pathway without
any time pressure, feel free to
go back to the third dip to pick
up the Big-DEF badge and the
many 20 coin pieces from the M
and L blocks respectively. After
getting these goodies, roll
right again, and allow yourself
to go through the pathway to the
next area.

Here, hit the Regroup block to
get back with the Little Tykes,
and kill the two Snifaros and
the two Dark Boos below you.
After cleaning the room of
enemies, walk to the upper right
corner, and use the Little Tykes
to get the *BEAN* from the X
marker. Now throw them in the
pipe right in front of you, and
make them kill the Bob-omb
before hitting the '?' block
(this is important). After
killing the bomb and hitting the
block, use the Big Brothers to
get the 100- coin piece, and get
the Babies out of the pipe. Now
back as a group of four, walk
down the right wall, hit the '?'
block for 10 coins, and throw
the Babies down another pipe.
Hit the '?' block for another
100-coin piece, and get back on
your Brothers after getting it.
Now walk left, and use the
Babies to get another *BEAN* on
the short ledge before you go
through the door to the next
area.

In here, you will probably get
hit by a Blue Boom Guy's bullet
(unexpected, eh?) to initiate a
new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Elite Boom Guy
---------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 80
Experience Points: 40


Elite Boom Guys are exactly like
the normal ones, except they are
stronger, faster and have more
health. Like you normally would,
use normal jumping attacks to
try to knock off his cannon, and
to eventually kill him.

The Elite Boom Guy's attacks are
faster, meaning they are tougher
to dodge. To dodge his attacks,
simply look at the mouth of the
cannon and jump right when it is
about to fire (you will see the
nozzle expand). If the cannon
shoots out a puff of smoke,
quickly jump again to jump or
deflect his slow cannon attack.
Even if you knock off his
cannon, there is the possibility
of him getting a new one (the
probability of this is higher as
these Boom Guys are better than
the standard ones).

Keep attacking the Elite Boom
Guys by jumping, and you will
eventually kill him getting you
a good amount of Experience
Points. These guys might even be
paired up with Snifaros which is
also a good source of
Experience.

Possible Items: Obtained: Blue
Pepper, Bro Flower, 1-Up
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you beat your first
Elite Boom Guy, hit the M block
to your left to get 5 Fire
Flowers, and continue to walk
left. Get on the slanting ledge,
throw the Babies off your back,
and start to roll left up the
ledge and across the long line
of pegs. When you are on the
small platform, stop rolling,
and hit all three item blocks
(two '?' and one M) to get a few
10-coin pieces, a Red Pepper,
and a Big-POW Badge. Roll back
across the pegs, and get the
Babies back on your back when
you are back on the right side
of the ground. Stat to walk left
across the ground again and
fight the Boom Guy and the
Snifaro to get yourself some
more experience. After killing
these guys, keep walking left,
and get the 3 Cannonballers from
the '?' block after killing the
Snifaro. Kill one more Elite
Boom Guy after some more
walking, and hit the '?' block
for a single coin. Use the
Babies to whack the red button
on the wall (which will lower a
ledge), and get back with the
Big Brothers. Before hopping to
the upper ledge, get the 10-coin
piece from the '?' block to your
far left near the back wall. Now
that you are on the ledge, throw
the Babies off your back, and
use the Spin Jump to get the Big
Brothers across the wide gap to
a couple of item boxes. Get the
2 Ultra Drops from the L block
and the 20 coin piece from the
'?' one, and Spin Jump back
across the wide gap. Walk
through the pathway to your
left, and regroup with the
Babies using the Regroup block.

In this area, walk down to the
small pit, and walk down as you
kill both the Snifaro and the
Elite Boom Guy (he is in the
bottom right corner). After
killing the first Elite Boom Guy
here, walk left to kill another
one (he might hit you in
surprise). There is another
Snifaro in the lower right
corner, so kill him to
completely exterminate this area
of enemies. Now that you are
free to roam around, walk to the
lower left corner, and get the
10-coin piece from the '?' block
and the *BEAN* from the X marker
(to the right of the block). Get
back with the Big Brothers, and
throw the Tykes down the pipe
right above you. Kill the Bob-
omb in here, and get out of the
pipe. Back on the ground with
the Big Brothers, hit the '?'
block diagonally ahead of you
for 3 Green Shells, and get
another *BEAN* from the X marker
near the right wall. From here,
walk to the upper left corner,
and throw the Babies down the
pipe for a 100-coin piece in the
'?' block. Get out of the pipe
and back on your Big Brothers'
back, and get to the next area
through the pathway located in
the lower right corner.

When you enter this room, you
will immediately notice that
there is another machine above
you that had a turnable wheel.
So walk to the wall near the
machine, throw the Babies onto
the ledge, and get the Big
Brothers near the wheel in
rolling position (without
actually rolling). Now take
control of the Babies, and walk
into the cave. In here, you will
notice that there are a bunch of
red platforms to your right. So
walk to the right side of the
ground without falling to the
lower ground, grab the *BEAN*
from the ground, and hop onto
the first red platform. You will
also notice that the second
platform is diagonally out of
your reach, so use the Big
Brothers to roll into the
machine to move the platforms up
and down in an alternating
order. Jump to the second
platform when you can reach it,
and then get to the blue
platform above you to get the
coin from the '?' block. You
will also notice that a counter
went from 3 to 2, don't worry as
this is normal. Now stop the Big
Brothers from rolling the
machine (as you can see the red
platforms are moving insanely
fast now), and restart them so
you can easily hop to the fourth
platform with the M block in the
air. Stop rotating the machine
when the shadow from the block
appears on the platform you are
on, and hit it using Baby Mario
to get another coin and to bring
the counter down by one number
again. After hitting this block,
jump to the ground to your
right, and hop up the cliff to
see another L block. Hit this
block to get another coin and to
bring the counter all the way
down to 0. Now you will see a
platform lower back outside
where the Big Brothers are which
makes the right part of this
area accessible. Ignore the
Babies for now and use the Big
Brothers to Spin Jump past the
thorny pit to your right. Hit
the Regroup block when you are
on the right side to get back
with the Babies, and walk right
through the pathway to get to
the next area.

This area contains a handful of
enemies and a good amount of
useful items and coins. So walk
right staying near the upper
wall, and you will eventually
see a cluster of three '?'
boxes. Before you hit any of the
boxes, kill the Elite Boom Guy
hiding near the upper right
corner. In the three boxes, the
upper one contains 2 Bro
Blowers, and the two lower ones
contain one coin (at the right)
and seven coins (at the left).
After getting these goodies, use
the Babies to get the *BEAN*
from the X marker in the upper
right corner, and walk to the
lower left corner of the area to
fight two more Elite Boom Guys.
After killing these enemies,
walk all the way right through
the door, and kill another
annoying Elite Boom Guy before
he hits you with the bullet from
the field. After killing him,
throw the Babies onto the cliff
in the middle of the area, and
hit the L block for an Ultra
Shroob. Use the Big Brothers to
get the 2 Ultra Drops from the
'?' block in the upper right
corner, and roll left out of the
room ignoring the Little Tykes
for now. Roll all the way left
until you get into another room
through the door, and hit the
Regroup block here to get back
with the Babies. Now jump
through the blue pipe to get to
the next floor of the large
underground dungeon.

In here, walk up to the next
area, and heal all of your
Brothers with Mushroom Drops or
Mushrooms if you need to. Equip
the Babies with the Unarmed
Jeans, and hit the '?' block to
your far right to get 3 Green
Shells. Hit another '?' block in
the upper right corner to get 3
Pocket Chomps, and use the
Babies to get the *BEAN* in the
light. Now walk to the left side
of this area to get 3
Trampolines and 3 Bro Flowers
from the '?' blocks near the
left wall. After making sure you
are ready for the Boss Battle
ahead, save with the Save Block,
and walk to the upper cliff in
the middle of the area. Press
the Big Blue Button, and you
will be sent to a large area
with a single '?' block in the
middle. So jump on the strange
looking circle platform, and use
the Babies to hit the block to
get a single coin and to ignite
a battle against the Boss. Watch
the rest of the cut scene, and
you will be thrown into the
battle against him (Petey
Piranha).


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------
Boss Battle: Petey Piranha
--------------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 1000
Experience Points: 360

When you begin this battle,
Petey Piranha will fly to the
right side of the upper screen,
land on three brown blocks, and
dive down to both of you. Don't
jump when he hits the ground,
because he will throw melons at
you after he lands. Dodge the
melons by jumping right before
the melon hits its intended
target. Be careful as sometimes
Petey throws the melons at
different times (sometimes
causing confusion). You can tell
how the melons will be thrown
hoe Petey dives to the ground.
If he rolls when he is diving,
the melons will be shot at the
same time, but if he performs a
straight dive, the melons will
shoot at each Brother
separately. After this first
attack, you will be free to
attack Petey with all that you
got.

When attacking Petey, your best
bet is to use Bro Flowers and
Pocket Chomps if you are good
with them. Remember to use X and
Y instead of A and B when
throwing the fireballs, or they
won't hit Petey! Ice Flowers are
not that great against Petey,
but feel free to use them if you
want to lower his defense or
attack. Use Smash Eggs if you
are low on items as they only
deal a fair amount of damage if
you use them perfectly. After
you attack Petey for the first
time (and hopefully dealt over
150 points of damage), he will
dive bomb at you again.


After one or two more rounds of
diving, Petey will dig into the
floor and summon a brown block
to be on the upper screen above
you. Look at the letter on the M
block to see which Brother is
being targeted. Now whip out
your hammers and whack away the
swinging plant right before it
touches you. Keep deflecting the
swinging plant for a few more
times until it breaks away from
the block and flies away. The
plant switches targets after
each whack with your hammer, so
be alert! Another nasty attack
up Petey's sleeve is his quick
sand attack. This is easily
dodged if you rapidly jump to
stay in one place (try to jump
together), but it can be
potentially fatal if one of the
Brothers gets sucked it.

This attack is kind of hard to
deflect, so don't get too
frustrated if you get hit. Now
that Petey is on the ground, he
is immune to jumping attacks (as
his mouth faces the ceiling),
but it now vulnerable to Hammers
and Shells. Hammers aren't that
great to use, but shells are
more effective and can deal a
good amount of damage if you can
use them to their maximum
potential.


After Petey comes out of the
ground, he will be angry, and
will be nastier with his diving
attack. The melons will be
further spaced out (forcing you
to dodge each melon separately),
and Petey will sometimes dive
twice or even thrice if you are
in the battle long enough.
Petey's swinging plant also gets
more dangerous as the brown
block it is swinging from gets
lower to the ground causing the
plant to move faster and be more
dangerous. The Boss might even
try to suck you up twice in a
row, but that is nothing to hard
to dodge.

After you fight Petey Piranha
long enough, he will finally die
marking the end of this long,
grueling battle.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you beat Petey, he will
explode freeing Kylie Koopa and
another Cobalt Shard. Watch the
rest of the cut scene, and walk
straight up to the upper wall
when you are free to go. Throw
the Babies off your back, and
hammer the crack in the wall to
break through it. Stay with the
Babies as you go inside the next
room. In here, dig through the
fence, and walk up to the red
switch to hear Peaches cries for
help. Hit the switch to open up
another gate, and make the Big
Brothers walk into the room and
through the gate you just
opened. Watch this disturbing
cut scene, and you will be
automatically teleported back to
Peaches Castle (present time).






================================
      Peaches Castle (present)
      [p14]
================================

In here, you will start on the
right side of the upper bridge
outside Peaches room. Walk
straight down, and save with the
Save Block in the lower right
room. Now go into the room to
your right, and get the Green
Sell, the Bro Flower, and get
the Cannonballer from the three
'?' blocks in this room. Throw
the Babies off your back, and
make them walk straight down to
get the hidden
*BEAN* down a small flight of
 stairs. After getting the bean,
 get back with
the Big Brothers, walk back into
the room with the Save Block,
and step on the big blue button
to get back to the first floor
(you can jump off the stairs to
get down quickly). From here,
navigate all the way back to the
garden where the two Toadsworths
try to impress Baby Peach. Watch
the rest of this cut scene, and
you will soon learn how to throw
the Babies into the air using
the Big Brothers' Spin Jump.


********************************
-------------------------
Tutorial: Spinning Babies
-------------------------

This technique is actually quite
simple as you only have to run
into the Babies when you are
Spin Jumping. So walk to the
bottom of the tall ledge in
front of you, and spin into the
Babies to make them fly into the
air. Now the Babies will be
hovering in the air, so simply
move them right to get them past
the tall ledge.
********************************


Now that you have completed this
insanely fast tutorial, The
Toadsworths will try to impress
the Princess by rolling again.
Watch this strange cut scene,
and the Young Toadsworth will
teach you another new move, Baby
Cakes.


********************************
--------------------
Tutorial: Baby Cakes
--------------------

Like Spinning Babies, Baby Cakes
requires you to use both sets of
Brothers to be involved. After
Toadsworth stops talking, make
the Big Brothers roll into the
Babies to make them flat as a
pancake. Now navigate the short
Babies across the path and
through the tight space in the
small cave. After you exit the
tight space, the Babies will
probably come back to normal. So
walk across the rest of the
path, and talk to the Young
Toadsworth to end the tutorial.
********************************


After this tutorial, Baby Peach
will fly off into the right side
of the garden in a hidden cave.
To save her, walk to the gateway
of the cage to your right (don't
bother digging as there is a
metal plate blocking your way),
and make the Babies into cakes.
Now walk the Babies under the
small gap and into the cage
where you will see a red switch
on the wall. When you come back
to normal, whack the switch with
your hammer, and the gate will
open allowing the Big Brothers
to enter. So get the Big
Brothers near the Babies, and
stand next to the left wall
making sure you are still
standing in the cage (it is the
wall dividing the cage and the
rest of the garden). Now Spin
Jump with the Big Brothers, and
run into the Babies to make them
fly into the air. Now navigate
the Babies so they float on the
ledge above the switch, and make
them enter the small cave. In
here, hit the L block to your
left rapidly to get a few 20
coin pieces, and hop up all of
the steps to get onto the ledge
where the Baby Princess resides.
Talk to the Princess, and the
Babies will automatically bring
her back to her cradle. Now that
you are free to go, walk to the
hallway above you, and the
entire castle will rattle with a
single Toad panicking. Ignore
this for now as you will still
be free to walk around the
castle, so take a quick stop at
the items shop (in the upper
right corner) to get some new
equipment.


--------------------------------
Fourth Shop Stop: 2100 coins

Because you (should have) saved
your coins from the previous
trip, you should have around
2100 by the time you reach here.
The only things new in the items
shop are the Ultra Shroom and
the Super Drop. Don't buy the
Ultra Shroom as they are rip-
offs (two Super Shrooms are
better), but pick up 3 Super
Drops as they might be useful if
all of your Brothers are low on
health. Another new item at the
items store is the Copy Flower,
but don't pick up even 1 as they
cost way too much money and you
will find lots of them in item
blocks (they are still a great
item though).

There are no new clothes in the
Equipment Shop, but you can
still get a few new badges if
you have the money. The Cash-
Back badge won't be that useful
as you shouldn't use too many
items in battle, and the Lucky
and Counter Badges are just not
worth it. The Drain Badge is
kind of like the Cure Badge, but
is more expensive and less
efficient. Pick up a second Cure
Badge if you need it, and exit
the shop with around 1600 coins
left in your pocket.
--------------------------------


Remember that strange crash from
before? To see what happened,
walk up the right flight of
stairs, and enter Peaches room
from the bridge to see another
messed up cut scene. After
Bowser steals the Baby Princess,
he will break the bridge on the
left side, and fall into a
portal back on the first floor.
So from here, simply walk back
downstairs, and enter the room
at the upper left corner. In
here, walk all the way to the
left side, and hop up the stairs
until you see the long gap.
Before you try to pass the gap,
throw the Babies off your back,
and make them gat the *BEAN*
from the X in the ground. Now
use the Spinning Babies
technique to get the Babies to
the right side of the large gap.
Now that you are on the right
side, simply jump into the
portal to get into the Thwomp
Volcano (past). Don't worry
about the Big Brothers as they
will follow you shortly after.






================================
        Thwomp Volcano [p15]
================================

Thwomp Volcano is a strange
place with tough enemies. You
will start the quest for the
next Cobalt Shard at the bottom
of a large mountain. So get the
Babies back together with the
Big Brothers, and go up the path
ahead of you to get to the next
area. In here, save with the
Save Block, and jump up the two
cliffs in front of you until you
see the front wall (it will have
lots of small holes in it). Get
to the right side of the wall
where you will be near the
lowest hole, throw the Babies
off your backs and squash them
by rolling on them. Now quickly
control the flattened Babies so
they hop left through the tight
spaces, and you will eventually
be under a '?' block. Hit that
block to get an Ultra Shroom,
and drop back down to the ground
when you pop back to normal. You
should have seen a Purple '!'
block to your left when you were
in the holes. To get to the
switch, get the Big Brothers
next to you, and perform another
Baby Spin to get them in the
hole with the switch. Hit the
switch, and you will see some
blocks in the wall to your left
open up a door. Now that you
have opened up the door, get
back together with the Big
Brothers, and go through the
door to your left to get to the
next area.

In here, you will see a long,
thin bridge to your right. So
walk across the bridge, and run
into the block on the ground
(near the '?' block) to fight a
new enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------
Enemy: Thwack
-------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 60
Experience Points: 20


Thwacks are a strange type of
enemy as they change color after
every time they attack. The best
way to attack these guys is to
simply jump on them one at a
time. After you attack them with
Mario, they will attack you with
one of two different attacks.

Thwacks' first attack is simply
ramming into you. You can tell
when they perform this attack
when they spin rapidly in place
than fly into you. To counter
attack this attack, simply jump
right when he starts to move
towards you. You will also
notice that they will change
their facial expression after
they are done attacking you. The
second attack is very similar,
except they will fly high into
the air when they attack you.
You can also counter attack this
attack by hammering right when
the Thwacks hover above your
head. The thwacks will also
change their color (and possible
facial expression) after this
attack. Note that during their
turn, each Thwack will use the
same attack as the others.

The two colors and the two
facial expressions of Thwacks
don't make any difference in how
they attack. If you find out
that there are too many Thwacks
for you to handle (four or
five), feel free to use Smash
Eggs or Pocket Chomps to quickly
dispose of these guys. If you
want, you can also weaken the
Thwacks by a consistent use of
Bro Flowers or Ice Flowers.

Sometimes Thwacks will call
other Thwacks to take the place
of ones that you have killed.
This move is very annoying and
is used quite frequently. If the
Thwacks feel that the battle is
taking too long, they will turn
yellow, crumble up into two
boulders, and try to attack you.
This attack is easily dodged by
jumping before the two boulders
hit you (but can also be
damaging as it is usually
unexpected). This attack also
marks the end of the battle.

Possible Items Obtained: Super
Shroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have killed your
first set of Thwacks, hit the
'?' block above you to get 3 Ice
Flowers, and kill another Thwack
to your right. After killing
this Thwack, walk up the slant
to your left, and kill another
two Thwacks when you get on the
upper cliff. Start walking right
ignoring the second slant for
now and stop when you see the
long gap. Now throw the Babies
off your back (stay on the
cliff), and get the Babies to
spin across the long gap to get
to the small platform with the L
block (don't float off too far).
Hit the L block to get 2 Super
Drops, and drop to pit to your
right to get a 20 coin piece
from the '?' block. Use the
slant to get back with the Big
Brothers, and walk all the way
back left to the second slanting
bridge. Throw the Babies off
your back again, and make them
walk only half way across the
bridge. Now perform the Spinning
Babies technique, and they
should be able to reach the
small ledge above you with the
'?' block. Hit this block to get
10 coins, get back with the Big
Brothers, and continue up the
bridge to the next large cliff.
To your right, you will see a
spiked pit below some pegs with
a platform above them. Spin the
Babies to the upper platform,
and get the Big Brothers to roll
across the pegs over the spiked
pit. When you are on the other
side, don't hit the regroup
block, but switch the control to
the Babies instead. Now walk the
Babies across the platform
making sure you get the 2
Trampolines and the coin from
the '?' blocks, and get them
with the Big Brothers when you
are on the other side. Hop up
the steps ahead of you to get to
the next area.

This area has a lot more cliffs
and jumps than the other one, so
try not to get confused. Go
straight up and hit the '?'
block to get 3 more Ice Flowers,
and jump to the next cliff to
your left to fight the Thwack.
After killing this Thwack, jump
to the next platform to your
left, and walk around to dispose
of three more annoying Thwacks.
After this ledge is cleared of
enemies, hit the '?' block to
your left for a 10-coin piece,
and get the *BEAN* on the small
platform in the middle of the
ledge you are on. After getting
the goodies, walk up the bridge
in front of you, and walk
through the narrow pathway to
get to the next area.

This area is larger than the
other one, but has no Thwacks.
So walk all the way forward
until you see the sign, and read
it to learn that the opening can
only be accessed by the squashed
Babies. So roll over the Little
Tykes to flatten them, and make
them jump through the small
opening to get into a tall cave.
In here, walk through the tight
space, and walk on the rotating
fan to fly up in the air. Now
that you are hovering, float
right until you get to the
staircase, and jump up the
stairs until you see the Yellow
Trampoline. After you turn back
to normal, jump up the
trampoline and you will get to
the highest cliff in this area.
Now walk left here, and hammer
the Purple '!' block in the
upper left corner to bring it
down and to make it accessible
to the Big Brothers. Now with
the Purple '!' block down on the
ground, take control of the Big
Brothers, and start to walk
right (keep the Babies on the
high cliff). Walk up the slant
to your right, and walk across
the thin Bridge when you are on
the cliff. When you are past the
bridge, hit the Purple '!' block
in the upper left corner to open
up a secret entrance on the high
cliff. Now get the Babies
through the door you opened, and
you will enter the final area of
this section of the Volcano.

In here, hit the regroup block
to get back with the Big
Brothers, walk up the staircase
to your right, and jump down the
large pipe to get into the next
section of the volcano.

Now save with the Save Block to
your left and walk across the
bridge to your left to get to
the next area. This is where the
really tricky enemies run
around, so don't get fooled if
you see a strange object lying
around. Ignore the object to
your left for now, and hit the
'?' block ahead of you to get 3
Cannonballers. Now jump on the
strange object to your left (it
could be a Toad, a Coin or a
Thwack) to get thrown into a new
battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Tanoomba
---------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 69
Experience Points: 82


These guys are tough and have a
wide variety of attacks. Because
they are fast, they will
probably attack you before you
have a chance to attack him.

For his first attack, Tanoomba
will fly into the air and
transform into an orange bubble
or Thwomp. If he transforms into
a bubble, he will slowly fall
down to one of the Brothers
trying to hit them. Counter
attack this attack by swinging
your hammer right before the
balloon hits your head.
Tanoomba's Thwomp attack is
similar to the balloon, except
it is faster and more powerful.
Counter attack the Thwomp by
swinging your hammer when the
Thwomp is halfway down the
bottom screen (swing earlier if
it is heading for Mario). You
can tell which Brother he is
attack by looking at the shadow
from the Tanoomba when he jump
into the air.

Tanoomba's second attack will
involve transforming into a
shell and trying to ram into
you. This attack may not be as
powerful as the Thwomp, but the
shell has a high possibility of
poisoning you if you get hit.
Dodge the shell by making both
Brothers jump at the same time
when Tanoomba hits the ground
after his back flip. Keep
jumping at the same rate to
dodge the rapidly spinning shell
as it will rotate to try to hit
both Brothers (2, 4, or 6
times).

Use simple jumping attacks to
damage and eventually kill this
enemy.

Possible Items Obtained: Pocket
Chomp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the first
Tanoomba, walk to the let side
of the two stacked Thwomp
blocks, and throw the Babies off
your back. Now spin jump into
the Babies, and make them land
into the small dent in the upper
block. From here, dig into the X
in the middle of the block to
get a *BEAN*, but don't get back
with the Big Brothers yet. Get
the Babies back to the ground
near the Big Brothers, and make
the big Brothers Spin Jump into
them to get them flying into the
air. Navigate the Babies to the
left side of the spiked pit, and
use Mario and Luigi's Spin Jump
to get past the pit after the
Babies pass. Before getting the
Little Tykes on your back, make
them get you a *BEAN* by digging
in the lower left corner on the
X. Now get the Babies on your
back, and continue your quest
for the next shard by jumping up
the stairs in the upper left
corner.

In this area, hop down the
ledges, and kill the two Thwacks
on your way. Walk up to the wall
in front of you and throw the
Babies in the small opening
after you flattened them. In
this windy cave, walk onto the
first fan, and float to the
platform to your right after you
start to float up high. Hit the
'?' block for a 20 coin piece,
and quickly get back on the
turbine before you pop back to
normal. Hover across two more
fans, and hit the Purple '!'
block when you are on the left
side. Hitting this block will
cause a shorter platform on the
left wall to jut out making the
pathway to your left accessible
to the Big Brothers. So make the
Babies walk back across the cave
(do not exit the cave on the
left side), and get the back on
the Big Brothers backs. Now as a
group of four, jump up the
platforms, kill the Tanoomba,
and step on the big blue button
to get to the next area.

Now kill the Thwack right in
front of you, and another thwack
to your right. After killing
these two enemies, hit the '?'
block in front of you for 2 Red
Peppers, and continue right to
fight a Red Coconutter.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Red Coconutter
---------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 90
Experience Points: 70


The Red Coconutters are similar
to the original ones, except
they are stronger, faster and
have more health (kind of like
how the Elite Boom Guys compare
to the normal ones). Another
annoying technique the Red
Coconutters can perform is that
they can shoot multiple needles
at you, and they tend to heal
themselves more than the
original ones. Attack these
Coconutters like you would to
the normal ones, and hope that
they don't heal themselves too
much to extend the battle.

Killing these Coconutters will
benefit you a lot as they dish
out 70 Experience Points each.

Possible Items Obtained: Ultra
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the enemies on
this platform, walk up the first
slant ahead of you, and stop
when you reach the ledge. Stand
near the ledge facing left, and
throw the Babies on there (the
ledge is the jutting piece of
land near the intersection of
the two slants). Now get the Big
Brothers on the ledge and Spin
Jump into the Babies to send
them flying. Fly straight left,
and make a quick right turn when
you see the piece of land with
the X marker in the center of it
(this piece of land is inside
the wall). After getting the
*BEAN* from the X marker, drop
back to the ground, and walk all
the way back up the slant to get
back with the Big Brothers. With
the Big Brothers, walk up the
rest to the slant, and you will
end up onto the uppermost cliff
of this area.

Now throw the Babies off your
back, and squash them by rolling
on their heads. Quickly take
control of the Babies, and walk
them under the wall to your left
to get to the middle part of the
high cliff. After passing this
wall, jump over the small gap
and just stand still and wait
for you to recover so you can
get the *BEAN* from the X marker
near the hole. After getting
this bean, walk back to the wall
you previously passed under, and
walk down after you touch the
wall to get back onto the
intersection of the two slants.
Walk back up the slant, and get
squished again by the Big
Brothers so you can walk under
the wall again. Instead of
waiting to recover, walk all the
way left (avoid falling down),
and go under the second low wall
to prevent getting big. Continue
to walk left under the third
wall, and get another *BEAN*
from the X marker when you
recover. From here, drop down
from the cliff you are standing
on, and you will land on a cliff
near a Red Coconutter. Kill this
Coconutter to get some more
experience points (it will be
harder as you are only using the
Babies), and hit the '?' block
for a Counter Badge. Feel free
to equip this new badge to any
Brother if you are good at
counter attacking. Now dig
through the X marker to get
another *BEAN*, and drop back to
the ground to your right. Now
walk all the way back to the Big
Brothers (past the second
slant), and go up the pathway in
front of you to get to the next
area.

In here, you will see another
one of the gears on the wall
ahead of you, and a tunnel for
the Babies to slip through. So
throw the Babies off your back,
squash them so they will turn
flat, and get into the cave. Now
walk on the large fan, and stay
there so you are hovering on the
wind. Take control of the Big
Brothers, and make them spin
into the gear to increase the
power of the fan. This will
cause the Babies to shoot up
high in the sky. When you see
the three clouds (two with item
blocks and one with the Purple
'!' block), land on the
uppermost one, and rapidly hit
the M block to get some 20 coin
pieces. Because you cannot reach
the Purple '!' block from here,
drop to the cloud directly below
you to get a 1-Up Super from the
L block. After getting this
item, drop straight down, and
you will land on a platform with
a '?' block. Rapidly hit the
block to get a few coins, and
get back to the ground by
dropping off the ledge (the fan
won't push you up as you are not
flat). Exit out of the cave, get
squished by the Big Brothers
again, and use the gear to
increase the fan's power (after
the Babies are hovering above
the fan). This time, get to the
cloud to your right with the
Purple '!' block, and hit it to
create a bridge to your far
right. After the bridge is fully
build, drop from the cloud
straight down, and you will land
on a cliff with a '?' block. Hit
this block to get a single
10-coin piece and exit the cave
so you can get back with the Big
Brothers. Walk across the bridge
you just build in the upper
right corner to get to the next
area.

In this area, ignore the small
openings in the wall ahead of
you, and simply walk up the
right slant to get to the main
ground. Kill both Thwacks
roaming around, and walk to the
right side of the field to get 3
Ice Flowers from the '?' block.
Throw the Babies on the large
green block below the '?' one,
and get the *BEAN* from the X
marker. Walk through the path to
your right, and hit the High
Coin Block to get another easy
350 coins (if you mess up big
time, restart the game from the
last Save Block). After getting
the coins from this block, walk
back to the area you were just
in, and walk all the way left to
fight a Tanoomba. After killing
the Tanoomba, walk up the slant
near the wall that is heading
left, and stop when you pass the
first two short slants. From
here, drop straight down, and
get 4 Super Mushrooms from the
'?' block on the platform you
landed on.

Now get back up the slant, go
all the way to the high cliff
this time, and you will see
another pegged bridge and silver
platform combination. Instead of
going past the bridge, drop
through the pegged bridge, and
kill the Tanoomba when you land
on another short cliff. After
killing the enemy, drop back to
the ground, and go up the slopes
again. Before crossing the
bridge, let the Coconutter throw
his spear at you so all four of
the Brothers can fight him.
After killing the Coconutter,
cross the pegged bridge like you
did to the first one (Big
Brothers roll on the pegs while
the Babies cross the upper one).
As the Babies, get the 2 Green
Shells and the coin from the two
'?' blocks as you pass the
bridge. After both sets of
Brothers have passed, walk up
the large slope, but stop right
before you enter the next area.
Instead, drop straight down, and
immediately push up as you fall
to land on a hidden ledge with a
'?' block. Get the coins from
the block, and drop through the
hole to get to an L block. Hit
this block for an Ultra Drop,
use the Babies to get the *BEAN*
from the X marker on the green
block to your right, and drop
back down to the ground. For the
final time, walk back up all the
slants, and cross the bridge
until you get to the next area.
If you want to save time, you
can just roll across the bridge,
and up the slant without the
Babies.

In here, hit the Regroup block
if you left the Babies behind,
and go down the blue pipe to
enter the final part of the
volcanic mountain. Now save with
the Save Block to your right,
walk up the slant, but stop
before you enter the next area.
Throw the Babies off your back,
and perform a Spinning Babies
jump to get them to the green
block hovering to your left. Dig
through the X marker to get a
*BEAN*, then you can get back
with the Big Brothers and go to
the next area. In here, hit the
'?' block to get 2 1-Up
Mushrooms, and continue walking
right until you see another hole
in the wall. Now throw the
Babies of your back, squash
them, and navigate the squashed
Babies through the cave and onto
the first fan to your left. Now
make the Big Brothers spin to
power up the fan, and the Babies
will be flung up in the air.
When you see the cloud moving
back and forth to your right,
land on it, and wait until you
grow back to normal. Now jump
across two more clouds when the
moving one is to the right, and
hit the Purple '!' block to get
the giant yellow block (blocking
the big Brothers' path) down.
Now drop through the space
between the two clouds, and hit
the '?' block when you land to
get 10 coins. Jump to the cloud
to your left with the L block
(try to jump right odd the ledge
before you fall), and hit that
to get an Ultra Drop. Now jump
from the cloud veering far
right, and you will land on a
platform with another '?' block.
Hit it to get a measly coin, get
back outside, and get squashed
by the Big Brothers for one last
time. Spin the gear again to
power up the fan, but
immediately float to the cliff
to your left with the '?' block
before you fly too high. Hit
this block to get a 20 coin
piece, get back outside, and get
the *BEAN* from the X marker in
the wall's dent before you get
back with the Big Brothers.
Simply go across the path to
your right to get to the next
area.

In here, you will see a few more
slopes to your right and a '?'
block in the wall above you. To
get the block, walk past the
first slant, throw the Babies
off your back, and squash them
into cakes. As the Babies, jump
into the tight space in the
wall, and walk backwards until
you see the '?' block. Hit the
block to get 3 Super Mushrooms,
and get back on the Big Brothers
backs to continue. Kill the
Tanoomba after passing the
second slope, and continue to
walk up the slopes until you
reach the high cliff. Here, kill
the Red Coconutter to your left,
and get the 3 Ice Flowers from
the '?' block below it. After
getting the Ice flowers, walk
all the way right, kill another
Tanoomba, and hit another '?'
block for 3 Bro Flowers. Now get
back to the left side of the
cliff, and jump up the ledges to
get to the upper platform. Walk
straight forward to get to the
next area when you are on the
middle of the cliff.

When you enter this area, you
will see a crown to your right.
So watch the cut scene that
comes up and the volcano will
erupt causing many fiery blocks
to fall from the sky. These
blocks pose no danger at all, so
you have no need to hurry up too
much. So walk right down the
slope to get to the next area.
In here, walk down the pathway
leading down making sure you
kill the Red Coconutter halfway
down, and kill both Tanoombas
when you get on the low cliff.
After disposing of the enemies,
hit the '?' block to your left
to get 3 Green Shells, and use
the Babies to get another *BEAN*
from the X marker on the small
green platform near the block.
After getting this bean, walk to
the right side of the cliff you
are on, and rapidly hit the L
block for some 10-coin pieces.
Walk straight down the path in
the middle of the cliff to get
to the next area.

In here, don't walk down the
green slope to your left, but
jump down the cliffs instead.
Fight the Tanoomba on the second
cliff, and get the coin from the
'?' block when you are on the
lower right corner of this area.
Now walk up towards the left,
kill the Red Coconutter, and hit
the '?' block for 2 Ice Flowers.
Walk straight down for another
'?' block with a 10-coin piece,
and walk straight right to go
down another green cliff that
leads to the next area. As you
probably notice, this area has a
large building the shape of the
Professor back in Peaches
castle. The Professor is in this
building, but he is actually his
younger self. Before going into
the building, heal your
characters, put the Unarmed
Jeans on the Babies, and hit the
Save Block ahead of you to save
your progress. After saving,
throw the Babies off your back,
and jump up to the platform with
the yellow gear to spin it with
your Spin Jump. Spinning this
gear will open up the door to
the Professor's laboratory, so
get back with the Babies, and go
through the door to watch
another cut scene.

After the many fiery Thwomps
destroy the lab, walk the Big
Brothers to the red valve in the
upper left corner, and Spin Jump
into it to start the water to
flow from the pipe to your left.
Now take control of the Babies,
and drink 9 Drops of water
(until Baby Mario is stuffed)
from the open pipe. After Baby
Mario is filled with water, walk
to the large fiery Thwomp to
your right, and spit out all of
your water to put the flames
out. After you doused the large
Thwomp, watch the strange
upcoming cut scene, and the old
Professor will put out the
erupting volcano with his new
invention. After the flowing
lava has been put out,
immediately save with the Save
Block to your left before you go
for the crater.

To get back to the crater,
navigate back across the last
two areas, and you will
encounter a VERY strange and
somewhat disturbing cut scene
involving a Thwomp couple angry
at the doused volcano. After
some more talking, the large
boulder (Mrs. Thwomp) will fight
you.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------------
Boss Battle: Mrs. Thwomp
------------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 900
Experience Points: 400


This will be a physical battle
as Mrs. Thwomp relies on pure
strength to attack you. So when
you attack, use Ice Flowers to
chip some of hear health away,
and to hopefully reduce her
attack and defense.

After you first attack, Mrs.
Thwomp will fly into the air,
spin around a few times, and
drop to the ground causing a
shock wave to hit you. To avoid
this attack, look at her shadow
on the ground right when she
drops down to hit you, and make
both Brothers jump when she
crashes down. Make Mario jump
first if the shadow is nearer to
him, and make Luigi jump first
if the shadow is near to him as
well. This is because her
shockwave will reach the Brother
faster she is closer to. Make
both Brothers jump at the same
time if Mrs. Thwomp decides to
land in the middle of the field.

After she attacks you, use
another Ice Flower if her
defense has still not been
lowered, but use semi-strong
attacks like Green Shells or
Cannonballers if she already has
been weakened. After one more
turn, Mrs. Thwomp will explode
into four smaller Thwomps, which
three are clones and one is the
real one.

Right after she splits, all four
small Thwomps will try to roll
into you. Before you pull out
your hammers, look at the
eyebrows each Thwomp raises and
the order of the Thwomps which
raise them. When one of the
Thwomps raises her right
eyebrow, she will attack Mario
and visa versa. To counter
attack these Thwomps, hammer
right when the Thwomp jumps in
front of you, or she will jump
again and land on your head for
serious damage. After counter
attacking the four Thwomps, look
for the Thwomp with regular
teeth and does not have a chip
in her head. The three Thwomp
clones had either missing teeth,
jagged teeth or a chip in her
head. After you single out the
real Thwomp, use a strong attack
like Pocket Chomps or Green
Shells (don't use attacks that
will attack all four enemies as
you have no need to attack the
clones). After you deal enough
damage to her, the real Mrs.
Thwomp will get rid of her
clones, and grow back to hear
normal size and attack you by
pounding the ground again.

Continue to attack Mrs. Thwomp
the same way as you usually do,
by using Ice Flowers to weaken
her, and powerful attacks to
reduce her health and you will
receive a nice amount of
experience points when you beat
her.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~





================================
       Inside the Volcano [p16]
================================

After you beat Mrs. Thwomp,
watch the rest of the cut scene,
and you will eventually find
yourself in the middle of the
volcano. In here, watch another
cut scene involving the two
Bowsers meeting, and save with
the Save Block to the left of
Mr. Thwomp after the cut scene
ends. After saving, walk down,
turn right, and continue across
the path to the next area. In
this area, you will see a
twister over a pit of spikes. So
throw the Babies off your back,
and perform a Spin Jump with the
Big Brothers to get the Babies
in the air. Now navigate the
Babies into the twister and
straight right to get to the
right side of the area. Now you
will be slowly floating down a
large pit giving you the
opportunity to get a bunch of
coins as you descend. Follow the
coin path that moves left,
right, and left again (there
should be two 10-coin pieces on
your way) until you see the '?'
block on a platform near the
left wall. Hit the '?' block to
get 2 Red Peppers (very useful),
and drop straight down to land
on the ground. Now walk right
through the small cave, and you
will enter the next area with a
new enemy to your right.

DO NOT fight this enemy yet!
Instead, walk up staying on the
left side, and hit the Regroup
block to get back with the Big
Brothers. Now that your are back
with your older selves, hit the
M block below you to get 7 Copy
Flowers, and then jump on the
golden enemy to your right to
fight a new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Gold Koopeleon
---------------------

Difficulty: Easy
Health: 10
Experience Points: 84


Gold Koopeleon may not have all
that much health, but you have
to fight them because they dish
out 100 coins each if you beat
them. The only major downfall of
this enemy is that they have a
very high tendency to run away
from the battle. Don't let his
health fool you because all of
your attacks will only deal 1
point of damage to him!

After your initial jump, the
Koopeleon will either run away,
or walk up to you and attack you
with his tongue. Dodge this
attack by jumping right before
he lashes out his tongue (you
will see his head move), and
note that he may whip it out
more than once at his turn.
Koopeleon will also sometimes
turn invisible and run into you
like the normal ones. Counter
attack this attack as normal.

After they attack, use Bro
Flowers (don't use Cannonballers
or any other item that forces
you to physically attack the
Gold Koopeleon), and you will
eventually kill them giving you
a butt load of Experience Points
and coins.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing this Koopeleon,
walk right hopping over the
small pit, and kill two more to
get some more coins and some
more experience points. After
getting the coins, rapidly hit
the '?' block to your right to
get yet some more coins, and
jump up the cliff ahead of you
to kill another Gold Koopeleon.
Now throw the Babies into the
square shaped pipe in the upper
right corner, and make them
rapidly hit the '?' block for a
few 10-coin pieces. Now get out
of the pipe, get back with the
Big Brothers, and walk all the
way left to see another pipe.
Hit the '?' block to the left of
the pipe for 3 Pocket Chomps,
and throw the Babies in this
pipe to fight a new enemy (it
looks like a Thwack).


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------
Enemy: Thwack Totem
-------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 150
Experience Points: 60


When you enter this battle, it
may seem like you will be
fighting a bunch of Thwacks, but
they will stack up on each other
forming a Thwack Totem. Start to
attack this Totem by using Ice
Flowers (to weaken his attack
and possible defense), and
continue to attack him by using
Smash Eggs or Pocket Chomps.

After you attack, the Thwack
Totem will split up into four,
and each block will spin rapidly
and ram into you. If this
happened, pull out your hammers
and smack away the Thwacks
before they hurt you (they are
fairly powerful). Like before,
the red Thwacks will head for
Baby Mario while the green
Thwacks will aim for Baby Luigi.
The other attack the Thwack
Totem has is an attack where the
Thwacks fly up in the air and
try to attack you with shock
waves. So after this happens,
prepare to make both Brothers
jump, and jump right when the
thwacks hit the ground to dodge
the small shockwave (remember,
green for green and red for
red).

Continue to attack this Thwack
Totem by jumping or using semi-
strong Bro Items (hold the
strong ones for the Boss), you
will finally beat him giving you
a fair amount of Experience
Points.

Possible Items Obtained: Super
Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you have beaten this
Thwack Totem, jump back out of
the pipe using the trampoline,
and get back with the Big
Brothers. Now walk all the way
down, and use the Babies to get
the *BEAN* from the X marker in
the small pit. After getting the
bean, walk through the right
pathway to get to the next area.

In here, throw the Babies into
the hole in the wall in front of
you, and jump past the Thwomp to
your right to state a new
minigame. When the Thwomp
instructs you, turn the Big
Brothers into a ball, and roll
them into the golden cannon at
the far right side of the area
to continue. After the Cannon
turns red, take control of the
Babies, and make them hit the
red switch right of the slot
machine. When the Big Brothers
fly up, the Thwomp will instruct
you to collect the Blue Diamonds
to continue. So memorize the
locations of the Blue Diamonds
as the screen pans the course,
and start to roll left when the
Thwomp stops talking. To get the
most diamonds, do not make any
sharp turns, and try to go for
the areas that are saturated
with diamonds. After you have
gotten the diamonds, the slop
machine will start to spin.
Obviously, your goal is to get
three of the same panel, where
three stars it the best. Here is
the output if you get the
following combos:

The prize you get depends on the
level you chose (Normal, Tough
or Extra-Burly) and which panels
you connect. Note that Tough and
Extra Burley are only available
after you have played your first
game. If you ask the Thwomp to
help you, you can only get three
Mushrooms, so don't choose this
option.

--------------------------------
Output Chart || Normal | Hard |
Extra Burly
--------------------------------
--------------------------------
3 Stars: || 1 Bean | 2 Beans | 5
Beans
--------------------------------
3 Mushrooms: || 20 Coins | 40
Coins | 60 Coins
--------------------------------
3 Flowers: || 50 Coins | 1 Bean
| 2 Beans
--------------------------------

Anything Else:       1 Coin

Now that you have played the
slot machine minigame, feel free
to play it a few more times if
you want to get more coins or
beans, then walk down the bridge
the Thwomp has built to continue
your adventure.

In this area, hit the '?' block
below you to get a Super
Mushroom, and continue walking
down to get a 20 coin piece from
another '?' block. After getting
the 20 coin piece, use the
Babies to get a *BEAN* from the
X marker to your right, and
continue down the pathway to get
to the next area. In here, you
will probably notice that there
is a Shroob on fire running back
and forth. Jump on it to fight
this new enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Blazing Shroob
---------------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 90
Experience Points: 90

The Blazing Shroobs are just
normal Shroobs on fire. These
guys are more dangerous than
they seem as they have a very
powerful attack. If you want to
put out the fire on the Shroob's
head (and trust me, you want
to), simply jump on the Blazing
Shroob. Note that jumping on the
fire will give you 1 point of
damage, although this shouldn't
really matter. If you don't want
to jump on the Shroob's head for
a faster battle, use Ice Flowers
as they are very effective.

After you attack the blazing
Shroobs, the Flaming ones will
summon saucers to hover over
their head. Now the saucers will
lower down a rope, light the
rope from the fire from the
Shroob, and a cannon will pop
out and will quickly shoot laser
balls from it. Dodge these laser
balls by jumping a split second
after the laser has been shot
(they move very quickly), and
continue to jump in this way to
dodge the three or four balls.
Sometimes the sauces moves to
the lower part or the upper part
of the upper screen, so be
careful. You can also tell which
Brother the cannon is shooting
at by the color of the laser
(red for Mario and Green for
Luigi) After this, the Flaming
Shroob will throw fireballs at
you at random speeds. Your best
bet is to make both Brothers
jump at the same time when the
fireballs bounce towards you as
they are too unpredictable to
analyze. If you want to analyze
the Blazing Shroob, you can tell
that the Blazing Shroob uses his
left hand to fire at Mario and
his right hand to shoot for
Luigi.

On the other hand, the Shroobs
that have been doused will
attack you like a normal Shroob
(by using his laser gun), but
these Shroobs shoot faster, are
a lot stronger, and shoot more
often than the normal Shroobs.
Dodge this attack by jumping
right after the Shroob shoots
his gun (you will know when he
shoots his gun by the sparkle
for Mario). These Shroobs are a
lot less deadly and much easier
to dodge than the Flaming
Shroob's attack, so jump on the
fire to make you life easier
(beware as the Blazing Shroobs
sometimes ignite again).

Continue to attack the flaming
Shroobs by using Ice Flowers or
Smash Eggs, and you will get a
great amount of experience
points when you beat them.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you beat this pair of
Blazing Shroobs, hit the '?'
block to your right for 3 Ice
Flowers, and walk up to the pipe
in the upper left corner. Throw
the Babies in the pipe to
dispose of another Thwack Totem,
and drop down the cliff below
you when you get back with the
big Brothers. Hit the L block
for 5 Copy Flowers, and kill
another pair of Gold Koopeleons
ahead of you. After getting your
coins, walk down the rest of the
cliffs, and kill two more
Koopeleons running around you on
the left side of the area. Get
the 10-coin piece from the '?'
block tucked away in the lower
right corner (on the lowest
ground), and get the *BEAN* from
the X marker at the lower left
corner. After getting the bean,
throw the Babies into the pipe
above you, and hit the '?' block
for a Max Mushroom. After
getting the Mushroom, walk
across the pathway to your left
to see a giant Thwomp with the
'four Brothers' symbol. After
Stuffwell stops talking, walk
past the Thwomp without stepping
on it, and continue the pathway
to your left to get into a small
area with a single pipe. Drop
down the blue pipe, and hit the
Purple '!' block here to finish
the bridge. Passing the bridge
will bring you back to the upper
part of the large volcano, so
there is no need to go back
unless you are short on items.
After completing the bridge (or
restocking on items), jump back
down the blue pipe, and get back
to the area with the giant
Thwomp.

Now step on the Thwomp, and you
will shoot down until you hit a
green '!' block (AKA blocking
block). To destroy the green '!'
block, you have to hit a switch
located on the lower level of
the mountain. Before we go for
the green blocking block, save
with the Save Block right above
you, and take the pathway to
your right to get to the next
area. Kill the Blazing Shroob
running around in front of you,
and hit the '?' block in the
upper left corner for 2 Ice
Flowers. Now throw the Babies in
the pipe you are next to, and
get them to kill another Thwack
Totem. After killing the Totem,
walk to the bottom part of the
area, kill the Gold Koopeleon
for a butt load of coins, and
hit the '?' block rapidly for a
few coins. After getting the
coins, hit the L block ahead of
you for a useful 1-Up Super, and
kill another annoying Blazing
Shroob to the right. After the
Blazing Shroob has been killed,
walk to the cliff to your right,
and use the Spinning Babies
technique to get the Little
Tykes on it. Hit the M block for
a Lucky Badge to your right and
hit the Purple '!' block to get
rid of the spikes from the
bridge. Now walk across the now
safe bridge (located north from
where you stand, use the slant),
and get into the next area to
see another High Coin Block. Get
as many coins from this block as
you can, and walk all the way
back to the area with the giant
Thwomp.

From here, take the pathway to
your left this time, and throw
the Babies in the square pipe in
the upper left part of this
area. Unfortunately, you will
have to go through another one
of those orange platforms
controlled by the Babies. So get
the Big Brothers on the orange
platform below you, and control
the platform down until you are
near the gold platform with the
'?' block to your left. Rapidly
hit this block for a few 10-coin
pieces, and use the orange
platform to get to the L block
to your right. Grab the Ultra
drop from this block, and move
straight down until you see the
two '?' blocks to your left and
right. The '?' block on the
brown platform to your left
contains some coins while the
one to your right has 2 Red
Peppers. After getting these
goodies, get back on the orange
platform, and continue to move
down until you see another '?'
block. Hit this block to get 2
Ice Flowers, and control the
orange platform to hit the wall
to your far left. Now move back
up until you see the small
pathway, and walk across it to
get to the next area.

This is a small area with a few
enemies and a few more item
boxes, but is only accessible by
the Big Brothers. Now kill the
Blazing Shroob to your left, and
continue your way to the upper
left corner killing another
Blazing Shroob and a Gold
Koopeleon on your way. Now walk
up the slope that leads to the
upper cliff, and walk down until
you hit the ledge. From here,
Spin Jump to the small platform
to your left with the '?' block,
and hit the block to get 2 Ultra
Shrooms. Get back on the large
cliff (by Spin Jumping), and
walk right to see a single M
block. Hit this block for a POW-
Peak Badge, walk back top the
upper left part of the cliff,
and continue up the long slant
until you drop down at the upper
right part of this area. Here,
simply walk to your right to get
back to the area with the orange
platform and the Babies. Pick up
the Babies and throw them back
in the pipe with the switch that
moves the orange platform, get
back on the platform, and move
all the way down to get to the
lower part of the area. When you
land on solid ground, hit the L
block to your far left rapidly
for a few 10-coin pieces, and
hit the '?' block below it for 2
Mushrooms. Now regroup with the
Babies with the Regroup block to
your right, and take the path at
the lower right corner (you will
notice the floor descending) to
get to the next area.

In here, you will see another
Twister over a small bed of
spiked (like you have seen
before in this area). So use
Spinning Babies to get into the
gust, and fly all the way right
to get in the middle of the air
where many coins reside. This
set of coins has no real path to
follow, but stay in the middle
to get a 20 coin piece. After
getting the first 20 coins,
float all the way to the left
for another 20 coin piece, and
stay on this side until you land
on a platform with an L block.
Hit this block for a pair of
Golden Pants, and equip this
useful Pant to the Baby that has
less defense or less HP. After
equipping the pants, drop down
to the floor (you can ignore the
'?' block to your right for
now), and walk left to get into
the area with a green pipe. Hit
the '?' block near the mouth of
the pipe for a measly coin, and
enter the pipe to pop up back
one level. In here, hit another
'?' block near the mouth of the
pipe for a 10- coin piece, and
walk down to hit a Purple '!'
switch. Now that a bridge to
your right has formed, walk
across the area with the giant
lava pit using the pathway to
your right, and use the Big
Brothers to throw the Babies
back in the Twister when you get
back here, grab the two 20 coin
pieces (they come back when you
reenter this area), and land on
the middle platform to get a
1-Up Mushroom from the '?'
block. There may still be
another '?' block to your right,
but you can ignore this again
for the time being. After
getting the extra life, drop
back to the ground, and walk
through the pathway to your
right to get into an area filled
with bridges and Blazing
Shroobs.

Because you are only a pair of
Babies, you should not fight the
Shroobs yet, so walk down the
steps to your right, dig in the
X for a *BEAN*, and drop off
this step to get on the lower
ground. Avoid another Blazing
Shroob, continue to walk right,
and hit the Regroup block to get
back with the Big Brothers. Now
that you are fit to fight
battles again, kill the two
Blazing Shroobs running around
below you, and hop up the long
winding stairs to your right to
fight against a third Blazing
Shroob. After this area is clean
of Blazing Shroobs, get back
down to the low ground, and get
to lower right corner to see two
'!' blocks. The blocks contain 3
Ice Flowers and 3 Copy Flowers,
so get them, and walk left to
get to the next (and small)
area.

There is only one thing to do
here, hit the Green '!' block.
So do so (you need to use the
Babies as an extra boost), and
you will see the giant Thwomp
fall down after the green
blocking block has been removed.
Don't step on the Thwomp yet,
but go to the pathway to your
left for some useful items. In
here, hit the L block in the
upper part of this area for a
1-Up Super, and whack the two
'?' blocks below you for 3 Copy
Flowers, and 3 Trampolines.
After getting these goodies, get
back to the area with the big
Thwomp, and hop on him to shoot
down until you hit the red
blocking block. After you land,
hit the M block in the upper
right corner for a 1-Up Super,
and get to the area to your
left.

This is another one of those
areas that have no enemies but
have lots of item boxes. So walk
left ignoring the stairway
leading down for now, and hit
the '?' block for 3 Ice Flowers.
After getting the Ice Flowers,
walk into the green pipe in the
left wall to go up a level. In
here, hit the Purple '!' block
directly to your right to build
two different bridges, and walk
over the first one to be near 3
empty item boxes. From here,
walk over the second bridge, and
hit the Purple '!' block to
lower the platform with a bean
hidden inside of it. Walk up to
the cliff, and use the Spinning
Babies technique to get on top
of the cliff, and dig through
the X to get the *BEAN*. After
getting the bean, walk back
through the green pipe you
entered from, and walk down the
stairs you previously skipped in
this area. Use the Babies to get
another *BEAN* from the ground
near the regroup block, and jump
down the blue pipe to get back
on the first floor. Here, simply
hit the Purple '!' block to
build the bridge, and drop back
down the blue pipe you came from
to get back on the lower floors.
Back here, walk back to the area
with the giant Thwomp, and
continue going right until you
see the red '!' switch above Mr.
Thwomp.

Step on Mr. Thwomp, and you will
eventually be thrown into
another minigame. After you talk
to Mr. Thwomp, he will lower a
piece of the wall to your right,
and cause a twister to appear
above it. So get off the Thwomp,
and use the Spinning Babies
technique to get them in the
twister. Now spin right and grab
as many blue diamonds as you can
find as you float down. To get
most of the diamonds, try to
stay in the middle of the room,
and go for big clusters of
diamonds. After you land on the
ground and collect 30, Mr.
Thwomp will raise Baby Mario to
the red '!' block. So hit the
switch to remove the red
blocking block, and exit the
room. If you want the
opportunity to get some more
goodies, step on Mr. Thwomp
again, and he will instruct you
to get 50 diamonds instead of
30. The last time you fell, you
may have noticed a ledge
sticking out of the right wall.
Lots of goodies await behind
that wall, so use this floating
trip to get on the ledge. After
getting on the ledge, walk into
the next room, and continue to
walk right until you see six
different item blocks. Hit the
blocks in order to get a 20 coin
piece, a 1-Up Super, 2 Max
Mushrooms, an ultra Drop, a Red
Pepper, and a Dynamic Badge. The
Dynamic Badge is useful, but
only if you have a good amount
of a single item in your stock.
After getting all of these
goodies, walk all the way back
to the room with Mr. Thwomp, and
drop all the way down to end the
minigame. Because you got only a
few diamonds, you won't be
getting the special prize, but
feel free to try again and again
until you do. Getting 50
diamonds will be tough, as there
are only 50 diamonds in this
entire room! After you give up
or get the special prize. Exit
the room, and step on the giant
Thwomp to shoot down until you
hit the final blocking block.

Destroying the blue blocking
block is very easy, as the blue
'!' switch is on the cliff in
the upper right corner. So hit
the switch to remove the
blocking block, but go through
the pathway to your left before
you step on the giant Thwomp. In
this area, hit the '?' block to
your left for 3 Ultra Mushrooms,
and hit another '?' block near
the blue pipe below you for 3
Pocket Chomps. Drop down this
blue pipe to get back up to the
first floor, and complete the
third bridge with the Purple '!'
switch. If you need to, you can
get out of the volcano and
restock (although this is
unnecessary). Now drop back down
the blue pipe in the middle
bridge to get back on the lowest
floor in the volcano, and walk
back to the area with the giant
Thwomp. Heal all of your
characters (using Mushroom
Drops), equip the Babies with
the Unarmed Jeans, and put on
badges on the Big Brothers which
will help you on the upcoming
boss battle. The best badges to
use are the cure Badge, the Big-
POW Badge, and the Dynamic Badge
if you have a lot of items in
stock. After preparing for the
battle, hit the Save Block on
the cliff left to the blue '!'
switch to save your progress,
and step on the large Thwomp to
get all the way down to the
bottom floor of the volcano.
Watch the cut scene when you are
on the bottom floor, and you
will soon be thrown into a
battle against the two Bowsers.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------
Boss Battle: Bowsers
--------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: Baby Bowser: 800, Big
Bowser: 1200 Experience Points:
400

Because Bowser is slow, you will
attack first. So begin this
battle by powering up with a Red
Pepper, and Bowser will probably
attack you after this. Bowser
will first attack you by
stomping on the ground causing a
shockwave that you have to jump
to avoid. Don't jump too soon,
as the shockwave is fairly slow
and tall. After the shockwave
passes you, Bowser will hide in
his shell, and Baby Bowser will
hammer it to one of the Brothers
(usually Luigi). Deflect this
shell by whacking it away before
it hits you, and Baby Bowser
will hit it to the other
Brother. Continue this process
of deflecting this shell, and
Baby Bowser will eventually miss
causing the shell will damage
him.

Sometimes, Baby Bowser will
stomp on his bigger self causing
him to spit fireballs at you.
These fireballs shoot randomly,
so the best way to dodge them is
to make both Brothers jump at
the same time the second Baby
Bowser lands on his larger self.
These fireballs are dangerous at
they move very quickly, deal a
lot of damage, and can possible
burn you (which will suck as you
are in a Boss battle).
Similarly, Bowser might walk up
to you, suck up some air, and
will spit some fire at you. This
attack is easily dodged by
jumping right after he sucks up
the air as the fire moves very
fast also. Sometimes, Bowser
will briefly delay his fire
spitting, so when he does this,
quickly jump again when he sucks
in his second breath.


If you were able to deflect big
Bowser's shell correctly, he
will temporally disappear from
the screen leaving you to fight
only Baby Bowser. Now that the
Bowsers are done attacking, use
Ice Flowers against him as they
are very effective and might
lower his defense. Bro Flowers
are also useful, but a better
item to use would be either
Smash Eggs or Copy Flowers. If
you can get the hang of Copy
Flowers and Trampolines, you can
deal tons of damage and quite
possible end the battle in a few
turns. Now that you have
attacked, it is the Bowsers turn
to try to hit you (the attacks
will be different if you only
have Baby Bowser left). Note
that if you are still fighting
the duo, their attacks will be
the same as listed before.

If you are fighting Baby Bowser,
he will throw a few fireballs in
the air causing them to combing
into one large fireball, and he
will throw the giant fireball at
you. Dodge this attack by
jumping right when you see him
throw the ball at you, or you
will receive damage. Sometimes,
this fireball will have to be
deflected using your hammer, so
pull out your hammers when the
icons tell you to, and whack the
fireball right before it hits
you. Baby Bowser can sometimes
feed himself Mushrooms that heal
100 HP, this is an annoying
technique as it can prolong the
battle. After a few more turns
on your part, Big Bowser will
come back.


Now that the Big Bowser is back,
he has a few more tricks up his
sleeve. Sometimes Baby Bowser
will feed Big Bowser a Mushroom
to restore some of his HP. This
time when Bowser stomps the
ground and the shockwave passes
you, many boulders will fall to
the ground causing small rocks
to fly to you. Jump over these
rocks right when they start to
move to you. You can tell which
Brothers the rocks are heading
to by the color of the rocks
(red for Mario, Green for Luigi,
and Yellow for both). Do your
best to deflect Bowser's shell
when Baby Bowser starts to hit
is to you, and Big Bowser will
fly away again.

After some more fighting, you
will kill Baby Bowser which will
make the rest of your battle a
lot easier. After Baby Bowser is
gone, big Bowser will only try
to attack you with his fire
breath or stomp until he gets
killed too. Be careful, as when
the rocks fall after the stomp,
they can fall at very rapid
rates, so make sure you still
have a few 1-Up Mushrooms on
hand.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






================================
       Shroob's Mothership [p17]
================================

After you beat the Bowser Duo,
watch another annoying cut
scene, and you will be sucked in
the Shroob's Mother ship. After
both Brothers catch their
smaller selves, grab the *BEAN*
in the X marker near the save
Block to your right, the
*BEAN* near the left wall, and a
 third *BEAN* in the upper right
 corner near
the stairs. After getting all of
the beans, save with the Save
Block (you don't want to fight
the Bowsers again...), and hop
up the stairs leading left.
Continue to walk across the
pathway after you pass the last
step, and hit the M block at the
end of the path to get a Max
Mushroom. After getting the Max
Mushroom, walk down the pathway
in the middle of the room to get
to the next area. In here, use
the Babies to get the *BEAN*
near the mouth of the door, and
yet another *BEAN* near the
regroup block. After getting the
beans, get back with the big
Brothers, and walk to the upper
right corner of the room. Now
use the Spinning Babies
technique to get the Babies on
the ledge above you, take
control of the big Brothers, and
hop up the two steps in the
middle of the room. Spin Jump to
the right side of the room, and
Spin Jump again to get to the
upper right corner. Now get back
with the Babies, and use
Spinning Babies to get to the
small ledge with the L block to
your direct left. Use Baby Luigi
to hit the block for 2 Ultra
Drops, and get back with the Big
Brothers after dropping back to
the ground. Now walk in the
lower right corner and walk
across the skinny pathway to get
to the next area.

This area is skinny, but fairly
long (perfect for rolling). But
before you roll, hit the two '?'
blocks to your right for a coin
and 2 Super Mushrooms. Continue
to walk forward until you see
the gray ledge above you, and
use the Spinning Babies to get
the Babies on it. Walk the
Babies across the ledge, and hit
the '?' block on your way for a
20 coin piece. After you jump up
the stairs, dig through the pink
ground under the red fence when
you see it, and rapidly hit the
'?' block on the other side for
a few 10-coin pieces. Now take
control of the Big Brothers and
roll forward until you see the
'?' block. Hit this block for 2
Copy Flowers, and take control
of the Babies one more time. Now
jump off the cliff you are on
veering far left (to temporarily
avoid the White Shroob), get
back with the big Brothers, and
step on the White Shroob to
engage in another battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------------
Enemy: Guardian Shroob
----------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 80
Experience Points: 90


These little buggers might be
small, but they do come in big
groups and will attack fairly
quickly.

The Guardian Shroobs attack like
the normal Shroobs, except their
gun shoots a lot faster the
normal ones. Dodge this attack
by jumping over the laser right
when you see the sparkle from
the gun. If the Guardian Shroob
attacks multiple times, just
jump right after he spins around
(like all Shroobs do before
firing their guns). Another
annoying attack by these little
Shroobs is when they call
another Shroob from the battle
to attack you. Both Shroobs will
hold their guns to the ceiling,
quickly flick it towards you,
and shoot you. Dodge this attack
by jumping right after the guns
have been flicked down, but
beware of tricky Shroobs that
hold up their gun longer or
shorter than usual.

To attack these Shroobs, Ice
Flowers work the best (they do
critical damage and can lower
their status). If you don't have
any Ice Flowers, use Smash Eggs
or any other attack that will
spread the damage amongst a
large group of enemies.

Continue attacking these little
buggers with Ice Flowers or any
other powerful attack, and they
will die giving you an excellent
amount of Experience Points
(they will add up as these
Shroobs come in large groups).

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating the first set of
Guardian Shroobs, continue
walking right across the purple
path, and kill another set of
guardian Shroobs after stepping
on the metal part of the ground.
After beating this Guardian
Shroob, stay near the beginning
of the metal part of the ground,
and squash the Babies by rolling
on them. Now that the Babies are
cakes, jump through the little
slot on the wall near the red
fence, and you will drop to a
lower portion of the ground.
Wait until you pop back to
normal, and walk across the
pathway you just landed on to
get to a pink part of the ground
with an X marker on it. Get the
*BEAN* from the marker, and drop
out of the open section of the
fence to get to the lowers
pathway. Walk backwards until
you see the L block, hit it to
get a Drain Badge A (equip it to
Mario), and walk back right past
the stairs until you see the
upper part of the ground meet
yours. Now take control of the
Big Brothers, and walk forward
to see 2 '?' blocks. Hit the
first one to get a 10-coin
piece, and hit the second one
for a Super Drop. Get back with
the Babies after you see them
when the pathways intersect, and
continue to walk right to get to
the next area.

In here, you will see a large
Purple '!' block, and a
trampoline. Hit the large block,
and it will fly away after the
wall to your right retracts down
to the ground. Now throw the
Babies off your back, and throw
them on the trampoline to get
them onto the upper part of this
area. Now jump up the stairs,
and you will see a few red
buttons above a bunch of light
bulbs, but don't hit them yet.
Instead, take control of the Big
Brothers, and walk forward
making sure you count the
pillars in the background as you
do. When you see the shadow of
the Purple '!' block, stop at
that pillar (it will be four
pillars forward), and make the
Babies hit the red button above
the fourth light bulb. Now a
stream of light will shine on
the Purple '!' block, so hit it,
and it will fly backwards away
from you. Now go back to the
first pillar, hit the first
switch you saw, and hit the
Purple '!' block again when it
becomes visible. Repeat this
process one more time at the
third red button, and a bridge
will appear over a spiked pit
allowing you to cross it. So get
on the spiked pit, make the
Babies hit the last red button,
and hit the Purple '!' switch
when it gets exposed for the
last time. Not this will cause
the wall to your far right to
retract down allowing you to
access the next area. So walk
the Big Brothers forward until
you see the yellow trampoline,
and get the Babies down to meet
them through the hole to your
far right. Simply continue to
walk forward to get to the next
area.

In here, you will see a normal
sized Purple '!' switch, so hit
it, and you will create a
pathway from the area you are in
back to the second area in the
mother ship. Before you press
the large blue button ahead of
you, use the Babies to dig in
the X for a quick *BEAN*. After
you press the button, you will
enter the elevator, and get to
the second story of the mother
ship (which is very small). So
when you exit the elevator, grab
the *BEAN* directly south from
the elevator, and get another
*BEAN* in the lower right corner
of this room. Now jump up the
metal structure from the left,
and throw the Babies off your
back when you are on the right
side of it (stay on the
structure). Use the Spinning
Babies technique to the metal
platform in the upper right
corner, and rapidly hit the '?'
block there to get a few 10-coin
pieces. After getting the coins
and beans, get back with the Big
Brothers, and step on the blue
button to your right to get into
the next area. In here, watch
this cut scene (don't worry,
there is no Boss battle yet),
and you and Kylie Koopa will
enter the elevator to the third
story. After Kylie Koopa stops
talking and you get on the third
floor, hit the '?' block for a
1-Up Super, and get the *BEAN*
in the upper left corner. Grab
another *BEAN* right below the
Save Block, heal with Mushroom
Drops, and save with the Save
Block. Although there is no Boss
Battle coming up, there is a
fairly long cut scene, so enter
the door, watch the very long
cut scene, and you will end up
in a town where all the
buildings are destroyed.






================================
       Toad Town (past) [p18]
================================

After Stuffwell stops talking,
save with the Save Block in
front of you, and enter the item
shop to your right. In here,
walk up to the front counter and
talk to the sleeping red toad to
buy some items (after a small
talking scene).


--------------------------------
Fifth Shop Stop (5000 Coins):

Look, all of that coin saving
has finally paid off, and this
store has some pretty cool items
on hand. So first thing first,
talk ton the green toad to buy
the Healing and Bro items. This
store has a great variety of
items, but you should already
have a sufficient amount of
Mushrooms and Mushroom Drops.
The only things you really
should buy are the 1-Up Supers,
Red Peppers, and Possible Green
Peppers. So pick up 3 1-Up
Supers (they are very
expensive), 5 Red Peppers and 5
Green Peppers. Now that you have
used up around 700 Coins on
these items, switch to the Bro
Items shop and pick up 15 Green
Shells, 10 Bro Flowers, 10
Cannonballers, and 15 Ice
Flowers. There are Mix Flowers
and Red Shells for sale, but
don't pick up any as they are
way too expensive, and you will
find plenty on your trip.

Now that you have spent 1400
coins on these items, switch to
the equipment shop, and look at
the clothing. The Stardust Pants
and the Star Trousers are
defiantly the best clothes to
pick up, so get 2 of each for
each Brother (which will eat up
about 2200 coins). Don't pick up
the Mushroom clothing as the
Star clothing will benefit you
better (even if the Mushroom
clothing increases your HP). The
only thing good in the badge
section is the Salvage Badge A,
but only pick it up if you
heavily rely on Bro Items
(otherwise, it is not worth it).
--------------------------------


After you have completely
stocked up (with 1200 coins
left), get back outside of the
store, and save with the Save
Block once again. Now that your
progress is saved, walk straight
down to fight a new type of
enemy that looks like a Silver
Shroob.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------
Enemy: Shroid
-------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 110
Experience Points: 140


The Shroids are very annoying as
they have a great variety of
attacks that are tougher to
dodge. They also have more
health than usual and are
powerful. Thankfully, they are
slow, so you will be attacking
them first. The best attack to
use against this enemy are Green
Shells or Ice Flowers (at they
can easily lower his status).
After you deal damage to the
Shroid, he will attack you.


His first attack will involve
catching a giant spiked ball
from the sky, and throwing it to
one of the Brothers. You have to
use your hammers to deflect this
attack, so pull them out when
the spiked ball falls in the
Shroid's hands, and whack the
spiked ball away right before it
hits you. You can tell which
Brother the Shroid is aiming for
by looking at the letter on the
spiked ball as it falls in the
Shroids hands. If you
successfully deflected this
attack, you will notice that the
Shroid will start to buzz and
short circuit (this is a lot
more dangerous as it seems).

IMPORTANT!!: If the Shroid short
circuits, he will confuse Mario
with Luigi and visa versa, so if
he throws more spiked balls, and
it has the M logo on it, he
will; throw it at Luigi. The
short circuited Shroid will also
confuse the Brothers in his flag
attack (explained in the next
paragraph).

The Shroid's second attack will
involve two colored flags, one
red and one green. Your goal is
to follow the Shroids flag
commands by making the proper
Brother jump when he quickly
raises the corresponding flag
(meaning, you have to make Luigi
jump if he raises the green flag
and visa versa). Sometimes,
Shroid will raise both flags
forcing you to make both
Brothers jump at the same time,
and he even might trick you.
Although a flag trick is rare
and is usually done when Shroid
is low on health, it is
dangerous as it can trick you
easily. You can tell when a flag
trick is occurring when the
Shroid slightly raises one flag
and quickly raises the other
one. Shroid will continue to
raise flags for a few more times
(and he will raise them faster
every time), and he will
eventually back away from you
ending his turn. If you miss a
command, Shroid will throw both
flags at you dealing around 15
points of damage to each
Brother. Remember that if the
Shroid is short circuited, you
have to do exactly opposite of
what he says.

If the Shroid you have been
attacking has not short
circuited, he might attack you
with a very nasty move. First,
he will trap both Brothers in
small blue prisms, charge up his
laser, and will eventually shoot
you. First, you have to get out
of the blue prisms by rapidly
jumping until they break. Now
that you are free from the
traps, wait until the laser
flashes purple for a second, and
then immediately jump to dodge
the laser ball that will fire at
you.

Continue to attack the Shroids
in this way, and he will
eventually die giving you a
generous 140 Experience Points.

Possible items Obtained: Ultra
Drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you beat your first
Shroid, hit the L and '?' blocks
to your right for 2 sets of 3
Red Shells (from, the '?'
blocks), and the 1-Up Super from
the L block. Now that you have
gotten the goodies in this area,
kill the Shroid directly to your
right, and navigate to the
bottom left side of this part of
town to fight a third Shroid
(you will see him right in front
of the broken down yellow
house). After killing the
Shroid, throw the Babies off
your backs, and squash them into
cakes. Now look for the small
opening in the house that is to
the right of the front door
(very short opening), and get
the flattened Babies through it.
After you go through the
opening, you will end up on the
right side of the house near an
M block. Wait until the Babies
pop back to normal, and then
rapidly hit the M block for a
few 20 coin pieces. After
getting the coins, grab the
*BEAN* in the upper right
corner, and jump up the stone
stairs to get under the L block.
Hit this block rapidly for a few
10- coin pieces, and then drop
down the middle of the house to
your left. Hit all three '?'
blocks here for 31 coins in
total (one 10, 20, and a 1 coin
piece). After getting these
coins, exit the house by digging
under the front door, and get
back with the Big Brothers to
continue your adventure.

Now walk down the lower left
corner, and hit the '?' block
for a 10-coin piece. Kill
another Shroid to your right,
and use the Babies to dig
through the front door of the
orange house on the left side.
When you are in this house, pop
out of the ground, and hop up
the staircase at the back wall.
Now that you are on the wooden
bridge, walk all the way right
to the second orange house, and
drop down to the ground to see
five different item blocks. Hit
the 3 '?' blocks to get a coin,
3 Green Shells, and 2 Super
Mushrooms. Whack the M block for
a Dire-POW badge, and rapidly
hit the L block for a few
10-coin pieces. After getting
all of the goodies, walk back up
the stairs, and drop down
outside the house when you are
in the middle of the bridge. Now
get back with the Big Brothers,
and walk right until you see
another yellow house in front of
you. Like you did to the other
yellow house, throw the Babies
off your backs, squash them, and
make them enter the small hole
(left this time) to the door to
get inside the house. In here,
wait until you recover, get the
Ultra Mushroom and the many 20
coin pieces from the '?' and L
blocks, and dig for the *BEAN*
in the upper left corner. Walk
up the stairs, hit the M block
rapidly for more 10-coin pieces,
and grab the coin and 2 Green
Shells from the '?' blocks on
the ground. After getting even
more goodies, exit out of the
house (remember to dig), and get
back with the Big Brothers. Now
that you are a group of four
again, walk to the upper right
corner of the area you are in,
and make the Babies dig through
the orange house (front door).
In this house, jump up the
stairs, hop across the broken up
bridge, and walk into the next
house when you get to the next
area (to your right).

Because you will be with the
Babies for a while, make sure
they are very healthy and
wearing the best jeans (NOT
Unarmed), or you will surely get
killed by the enemies roaming
around. Now that you are in the
orange house in the second area,
drop down to the ground, and hit
both '?' blocks for a measly
coin and 2 Red Shells. After
getting these items, dig back
through the front door to get
outside. This area is
considerably smaller than the
first, but there is a new enemy
roaming around, so whack it with
your hammer to initiate a new
battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Skellokey
----------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 96
Experience Points: 100


If you don't have any green or
Red Shells on you, you will have
one hell of a hard time fighting
this enemy, but before you get
into that, you have to dodge his
first attack. Skellokey will
shoot a fireball at either
Brother (or both), so jump when
the fire is halfway towards you
to dodge it. After you dodge
Skellokey's attack, use Green
Shells to knock away the
segments of his body, so he will
be vulnerable to hammer attacks
(jumping won't work as he is
spiked). Never use Bro Flowers
or Ice Flowers against the
Skellokey, as they deal
absolutely no damage. Smash eggs
work, but Green Shells are a lot
more economical, so use them
instead.

After you deal some damage to
Skellokey, he will spit more
fireballs at you. If you look at
his head, you can find out how
he plans to attack. He will
chatter his jaws twice, and will
spit fireballs at either Brother
or possible both. Look at the
fireball when it comes from his
mouth, and you can easily find
out which Brother it is heading
to. Sometimes, Skellokey will
spin the segments of his body,
and will roll them at both
Brothers trying to damage you.
Look at the way each segment is
rotating (if it rolls counter
clockwise, it will shoot for
Baby Mario, and if it turns
clockwise, it will go for Baby
Luigi), and make each Brother
jump before it hits you to avoid
taking damage.

Another variation of this attack
(where the segments spin), will
involve the Skellokey eating his
segments after they pin, and
spitting them out at you. Hammer
these segments away the same way
you did to the Pokeys (whack
your hammers a second after the
segments reaches its highest
point). Be careful as the
segments move fairly quickly and
rapidly.

After Skellokey is finished
attacking you, continue to use
Green Shells (even if he
respawns his segments), and you
will eventually kill him.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have beaten the
only enemy in this area, walk to
the broken house to your right,
and hit the '?' block in it for
3 Red Shells. After getting the
Shells, dig through the fence
blocking your path below you to
get to the next part of this
area. In here, kill the
Skellokey walking around to your
left, and step on the pink
bubble like creature to ignite a
new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------
Enemy: Love Bubble
------------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 90
Experience Points: 70

The Love Bubbles are definitely
one of the most annoying enemies
in the entire game. They are
very fast (thank god the Babies
are too), and have attacks that
are difficult to dodge at first.
Dispose of these bubbles as soon
as you see them or you will be
sorry.

As the Bubbles are in the air,
they are impervious to Fire/Ice
Flowers (as you are only the
Babies) and Green/Red Shells.
Your best bet is to use Smash
Eggs or to simply jump on them
to chip their health away. After
you attack the Love Bubble, they
will attack you with some nasty
moves.

The first move the Love bubble
has in store for you will be her
swooping attack (she will swoop
around Both Brothers trying to
damage them). There are four
variations of this attack, so be
very careful when they use this
move. You can tell they will
swoop at both Brothers when she
hovers in front of you, and
lifts up her foot. If she lifts
up her right foot, she will
swoop for Baby Luigi then Baby
Mario, but if she lifts up her
right foot, she will go for Baby
Mario first then Baby Luigi. The
way she will swoop at you will
be determined by her height from
the ground when lifting up her
foot. If she hovers close to the
ground, the Love bubble will
swoop down to Both Brothers
(forcing both to jump
individually), but if she hovers
high from the ground, she will
swoop low to the first Brother,
and right above the second. If
she does this, ONLY make the
first Brother jump to dodge her.
It is actually plausible to
counter attack this attack, but
you have to perfectly time your
jump right when the Love Bubble
starts to move to you (after she
retracts her foot).

Another attack the Love bubble
has up her sleeve is her sky
bomb attack. She will fly up to
the sky, lift one foot (like in
the swooping attack, this tells
which Brother she is aiming
for), and quickly dive down to
you. Dodge (or if you are lucky,
counterattack) this attack by
jumping right when the Love
Bubble starts to dive towards
you. Fortunately, this attack
targets only one Brother, so you
don't have to worry about
strange loops.

There is one attack that is
fairly easy to dodge, and it is
the Love Bubbles, spinning
attack. You will see her spin up
into a flashing ball, and she
will rotate around the Babies
slowly increasing her speed.
Your goal is to hammer the
flashing ball before it
completely powers up, or she
will ram into one of the Babies
causing him to take heavy
damage. Sadly, the Love Bubble
takes no damage when you hammer
her away.

The most annoying trick this
bubble has up her sleeve is her
healing powers. If you are in a
battle against multiple Love
Bubbles or a Love Bubble or some
other enemy, she will sometimes
heal them if you damage the
other enemies (usually around 10
HP). This is the sole reason why
you have to take out the Love
bubbles before you even think
about attacking the other
enemies (except in very rare
exceptions).

Possible Items Obtained: Smash
Egg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have beaten this
annoying Love bubble, hop up the
blue set of stairs to your
right, and hit the '?' block to
get 2 Smash Eggs. Get back down
to the ground, and kill another
Skellokey to the left near
another set of purple stairs.
After killing the Skellokey,
jump up the stairs, and rapidly
hit the M block to get a few 20
coin pieces. After getting the
coins, get into the next area by
walking down the pathway near
the lower left corner. In here,
you will see two (of four) Split
Blocks. Align the Baby Brothers
under the blocks, but don't hit
them yet as there is nobody to
whack the other two blocks. So
take control of the Big Brothers
instead, as the Big Brothers,
walk down the pathway in this
area (that used to have tons of
Shroids), and enter the next
area with the other two Split
Blocks. Align the big Brothers
under these blocks, and get the
Babies to hit the first two
blocks. Hit the third and fourth
Split Blocks with the big
Brothers, and the gateways will
open allowing the separated
Brothers to continue their
adventure.

Take control of the Babies and
heal them with Mushroom Drops if
you are low on health (this will
heal the Big Brothers as well).
Now that you are all healed up,
walk down through the opened
gate, and take a quick turn to
get into the next area to your
right. This area may not be as
big as the first one you were
in, but it has quite a few
enemies and might be confusing
to navigate through. So walk up
the rest of the pathway until
you see the Skellokey, kill him
(be careful, he might be paired
up with Love Bubbles), and dig
through the front door of the
yellow house in front of you. In
the house, walk to the back
wall, and hit all of the item
blocks to get a bunch of 10-coin
pieces (from the L block), a 20
coin piece, and an Ultra Drop.
After getting all of the
goodies, get back out of the
house, and walk right until you
see another Skellokey. Kill this
Skellokey for some more
Experience Points, and hit the
'?' block to your right to get 3
Red Shells. After getting the
Shells, hop down the ledge below
you, and dig through the two
gates that separate the northern
and southern parts of this area.
This part has a Love Bubble and
a Skellokey, so take them out to
get more Experience Points.
After taking out all of the
enemies, get the 2 Smash Eggs
from the '?' block on the purple
platform to your right, and then
grab a Super Shroom from another
'?' block up the purple steps to
your left. After getting the
items here, hop down another
ledge below you, and go through
the pathway in the lower left
corner to get to the next area.
In here, you will see another 2
Split Blocks (both which cannot
be touched yet). This means you
have to take control of the Big
Brothers, and navigate them to
the Split Blocks on your left
side, which is no easy task.

Now get the Brothers, walk
through the gate you opened
previously, and walk straight
left (after going down) to see a
'?' block. Hit this block to get
2 Smash Eggs, and roll through
the rest of the pathway to your
left to get to the next area.
Note that you will see a few
yellow houses that you used the
Babies to get into. Because the
Big Brothers alone cannot get in
the house, ignore them for now.
So hop down the ledge below you,
kill the Love bubble roaming
around (it will be easier as you
are using the Big Brothers), and
hop up the blue stairs to your
direct left to get to 3 Red
shells inside of a '?' block.
Now drop down the stairs and
down another cliff below you,
kill another 2 Shroid (they are
also easier because the Babies
are non-existent) and a Love
Bubble, and get back up the blue
stairs in the upper left corner.
Stop when you are no the second
step, and Spin Jump towards the
ledge on the lower ground with
the '?' block above it. Hit the
block for a 1-Up Mushroom and
Spin Jump to the blue ledge to
your right to see an M block.
Rapidly hit this block to get a
few 10-coin pieces, drop back to
the ground, and roll through the
path to your right to get to the
next area (rolling saves time).

In here, you will see another
Shroid in front of you, so kill
him, and jump up the short cliff
to your right to see another
Love Bubble. Kill the Bubble,
hop up the pair of blue steps in
the middle of the ledge you are
standing on, and Spin Jump to
the tall blue platform to lower
left side. Spin Jump to another
blue platform to your lower
right this time, and get to the
third platform to your lower
left to get 2 smash Eggs from
the '?' block. From here, Spin
Jump straight left, and rapidly
hit the M block here to get a
few 20 coin pieces. After
getting these coins, drop back
to the ground, and on the
pathway in the lower right
corner to get to the next area
(where you will meet up with the
Babies. Now navigate to the two
Split Blocks, and make all four
Brothers hit them starting with
the Big Brothers. After you hit
all of the Split Blocks, the two
gates will open allowing the two
sets of Brothers to proceed. Now
take control of the Babies, walk
down the gate and you will be in
the next area. In here, simply
dig through the gate right in
front of you (this one is not
guarded by a metal plate), and
take control of the Big
Brothers. With the Big Bros,
walk down to the next area, and
meet up with the Babies for a
happy reunion (well, not
really).

Now that you are all together
again, walk to the far right
side of the area you are in, and
get the *BEAN* from the x marker
in the ground near the Regroup
Block. After getting the bean,
save with the Save Block, and
hit the Purple '!' block to your
far left to open up a gate
leading to the Sewers. If you
would like to, you can go
through the portal to get back
to the sewers (to get some of
the nice badges Fawful is
selling). If you have enough
beans, you can grab the Treasure
Badge or the Utley-Free Badge
(both are VERY useful). After
getting your needed badges, get
back to the portal that leads to
the run down toad town, and go
through the blue pipe in the
lower right area to get to a
brand new place.






================================
        Star Hill               
================================

After you pop out of the pipe,
Stuffwell will start to talk
again. So listen to the usual
jibber-jabber, and walk right to
3 item boxes after he stops
talking. Hit the M block for 6
Mix Flowers, whack the L block
rapidly for a few 10-coin
pieces, and hit the '?' block
for 2 more Mix Flowers (handy).
Now that you have gotten these
useful items, walk straight up
the icy pathway to get to the
next area. In this area,
continue to walk up the path,
and jump on the cardboard cutout
of a Goomba to ignite a new
battle against a strange (and
annoying) enemy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Handfake
---------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 130
Experience Points: 155


Handfake is a very strange enemy
with a whole variety of attacks.
If you haven't noticed by now,
Handfake is nothing more than a
black glove holding a cardboard
cut out of a Goomba. As you
attack Handfake, you will break
his cutout, and he will pull out
a new cutout with a different
enemy at his next turn. To
dispose of Handfake quickly, use
Bro Flowers (as they are very
effective), or simply jump on
his head to save your items).
Now that you have damaged
Handfake, it is time for you to
dodge the upcoming attacks from
the cutouts:

Goomba:

If Handfake has a Goomba cutout,
he will throw the cutout behind
him, and it will loop around the
screen causing it to hit the
Brothers from behind. To dodge
this attack, simply make both
Brothers jump right when the
cutout disappears from the right
side of the bottom screen. It
doesn't matter if you jump on
the cutout or entirely miss it,
because it won't affect either
you or Handfake. After this
attack, Handfake will pull out
another cut out from the ground.

Bowser:

The Bowser cutout may look
dangerous, but it really is not.
When he attacks, the Bowser
cutout will spit a fireball at
you (actually he will summon a
fake fireball cutout, but
whatever). The fireball will
randomly aim for Mario or Luigi,
so make both Brothers jump at
the same time when the fireball
reaches halfway across the field
to dodge it. Because there is no
real way to tell which Brother
the fireball is aiming for, you
best bet is to make both
Brothers jump at the same time,
or quickly look at the direction
where the cutout is shifting
(towards Mario or Luigi).

Bob-omb:

This is the last cutout you want
to see, because the Bob-omb
cutout is hard to dodge, and has
an explosive attack (explosive,
get it? Ha ha). When Handfake
uses the Bob-omb, he will throw
the cut out high in the air, and
it will fall and crash on one of
the Big Brothers' heads. To
deflect the Bob-omb, hold out
your hammers when Handfake
throws the cutout, and whack
them a split second after it
reaches the bottom screen. You
have to wait an extra split
second before whacking your
hammers if it is aiming for
Luigi. If you are lucky enough
to hit the Bob-omb, he will fly
back to Handfake causing him top
take some damage.

Paratroopa:

This cutout may be difficult to
dodge first (as its attack is
misleading), but you will
eventually get the hang of it
after a few hits. When the
Paratroopa cutout attacks,
Handfake will spin the cutout 1
to 3 times either counter
clockwise or clockwise, and will
proceed to attack his intended
target. Handfake will attack
Mario if he spins clockwise, and
visa versa. Now Handfake will
stand behind you, and will start
to shift back and forth the
number of times he span around
previously. You may be expecting
Handfake to hit the cutout on
your head like a hammer, but he
will take a brief delay, and
will simply ram the cutout into
you. To counterattack this
attack, jump when you see
Handfake starting to duck
forward for his attack. Try not
to jump too early, because this
is a common mistake amongst
regular gamers.

Use the above tips to dodge all
of Handfake's attacks, and
continue to bombard him with Bro
Flowers until he gives in. You
will be happy as the experience
points you receive are great.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have beaten the
first Handfake in this game,
continue to walk across the
frozen pathway killing the 3
Love Bubbles and one more
Handfake on your way. When you
see the Fly Guy, start a new
battle by using the Babies to
hit him in the air.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------
Enemy: Fly Guy
--------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 100
Experience Points: 145


Fly Guys are a real pain in the
butt, but the fight is worth it
as they dish out loads of
experience points. Because the
Fly Guys are fast, they will
attack first.

You will notice that each Fly
Guy is holding a spiked bomb
with a number on it. Every time
the Fly Guy attacks, the number
will decrease by 1, and will
explode on your head if you get
hit by the bomb at this point.
Fly Guy's first attack will
involve throwing the bomb at you
after swinging a few times. Look
at the Fly Guy as he swing his
bomb, and jump about a split
second after he releases it from
his grip to jump over it and to
avoid taking damage.

The second attack the Fly guy
has in stock for you is his bomb
attack. For this attack, the Fly
guy will fly high up into the
air, and he will drop the bomb
on one of the Brothers' head. As
the Fly Guy flies up, look at
the shadow as it moves back and
forth, and it will eventually
stop over one Brother (you can
tell when he stops because the
motor sound will stop). Now pull
out the hammer of the targeted
Brother, and whack the bomb when
it is halfway down the screen
(around 1 inch over the
Brothers' head. If you succeeded
in hitting the bomb away from
you, it will shoot back to the
Fly Guy causing him to take
damage. If the bomb read '1'
when you hit it away from you,
the bomb will EXPLODE on the Fly
Guy causing him to take a great
amount of damage!

Because the bombs are so
dangerous, attack the Fly Guys
that have a lower number on
their bomb first. You can also
use Ice Flowers against the Fly
guys as they deal a good amount
of damage and can lower their
status. Continue to attack the
Fly Guys by using Ice Flowers or
by simply jumping, and they will
eventually die.

Possible Items Obtained: Red
Shell
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing this Fly Guy,
continue to walk along the
pathway until you see the small
hole in the ground (on the
wall). Now throw the Babies off
your backs, squash them to turn
them into cakes, and get them
through the small hole. When you
are inside the icy cave, walk
through the tight space, and
stop when you are hovering over
the large fan. Now take control
of the Big Brothers and walk
right until you see a yellow
gear on the wall. Spin this gear
(using the Spin jump), and the
fan will spin faster causing the
Babies to fly higher in the sky.
As you shoot up, drop to the
second ledge to your left, and
wait for a few seconds for you
to recover. Now that you have
recovered, get back to the icy
path through the hole in the
tunnel to your left (it will not
be guarded by metal bars). This
icy path leads to two dead ends,
but both ends have nice items
and a bean for you. Now walk
left, kill the Hand Fake walking
around (this one will be tougher
as you are only using the
Babies), and continue to walk
left until you see an L block
and an X marker. Rapidly hit the
L block for a few 20 coin
pieces, grab the *BEAN* from the
X, and walk back right past the
cave entrance. Kill another Hand
Fake on your way, and you will
soon reach a '?' and an M block.
Hit the '?' block for 3 Mix
flowers, rapidly hit the M block
for some 10-coin pieces, and
walk all the way back to the
cave entrance. Back in the cave,
drop down the pit to your right
to get right over the fan (you
won't be floating as you arte
not flat), and jump up the
stairs to your right to drop
into another pit. Here, dig
through the metal fence blocking
the outside, walk back to the
flat opening, and get squashed
by the Big Brothers once again.

Like before, get the Babie4s on
the large fan, and turn the gear
with the big Brothers once the
Babies start to float. This
time, let the Babies fly to the
top, then float down to the
ledge directly to your left.
Wait for a few more seconds to
recover once you land on the
ledge, and then get out of the
cave you are in by digging
through the fence to your left.
Now that you are outside,
immediately hit the Regroup
block to your left to get back
with the Big Brothers (because
the pathway is too dangerous for
two Babies), and walk left to
get to an L block. Rapidly hit
this block for a few 10-coin
pieces, and walk back right
ignoring the tall ledge in front
of you for now. Kill the Fly Guy
that will be hovering on the
right side of the pathway, and
hit the '?' block to your far
right for 2 useful Mix Flowers.
After getting the goodies, jump
to the upper part of the pathway
using the cliff in front of you,
and continue to walk across the
pathway to fight another Fly
Guy. Keep walking left when you
see the intersection, kill a
second Fly Guy, and then walk
back to the intersection to take
the pathway up. You can relax as
there are no enemies in this
area and quite a few items (do
you sense a Boss Battle coming
up?).

To get these items, jump up
another ledge in front of you,
hop up yet another ledge to your
left, and hit the '?' block to
get 3 Copy Flowers. There is an
L block to your left that
contains 3 Ultra Drops, so get
them as they will be very
useful, and drop down the cliff
you are on by walking to the
small platform ahead of you.
Rapidly hit this L block for a
few 10-coin pieces (haven't you
noticed that L blocks tend to
contain these?), and walk back
to the main pathway to the right
of the cliff with the two item
boxes. Now take the pathway to
your upper right, ignore the
Save Block for now, and jump to
another cliff to your right for
a few more item boxes. Hit the
two '?' boxes for 3 Mix Flowers
and 3 Copy Flowers (they will
really help you in the upcoming
boss Battle), and drop the small
platform ahead of you for an M
block with 2 1- Up Supers. Get
back on the tall ledge, and walk
straight down to get to another
small platform with an M block.
Rapidly hit this block for some
20 coin pieces, and get back to
the main pathway back to your
left. Before you hit the Save
Block, heal all of the Brothers
with Mushroom Drops or by using
Mushrooms, and put on your Boss
Battle gear. Now that your game
is saved, walk straight up the
rest of the pathway, and yow
will meet a Pink Shroob with two
flags. Watch this short cut
scene, and you will be thrown in
this strange Boss Battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Boss Battle: Shroob-omb, Support
Shroob, and Commander Shroob
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Hard Health: Shroob-
omb: Infinite, Support Shroob:
110, Commander Shroob: 1600
Experience Points: 820 (with 12
Support Shroobs)


When this battle starts, you
will see the Pink Shroob bring
out three Support Shroobs
carrying a huge bomb. Note that
this is NOT one of those battles
where you have to simply use
brute force to try to destroy
your enemy, because the real
enemy is the pink Shroob hiding
behind the large Shroob-omb.
Under no circumstances you
should attack the Shroob-omb,
because all of your attacks will
deal only 1 point of damage to
it.

Because the Shroob-omb is slow,
you will be able to attack
first. Your goal is to attack
the last two Support Shroobs,
NOT the first one in the row and
you will understand why later.
Ice flowers and bro Flowers are
completely useless against the
Support Shroobs (as they deal
only 1 point of damage), so
don't bother to use them. Your
best bet is to use physical
attacks like Copy Flowers,
Trampolines, or simply jumping.
If you choose to use your attack
items, stop the attack run early
if you feel that the first
support Shroob in the line will;
die, because he is very
important in this battle.

After you attack the Support
Shroobs for the first time, they
will use one of two attacks on
you. Their first attack will be
their trick bomb throw, where
they will throw the Shroob-omb
high in the air, and will rush
out to ram into you. Right after
the bomb gets thrown in the air,
look at all three Support Shroob
to see where they are looking.
The Shroobs will ram Mario if
they are looking at him while
the other ones will attack Luigi
if they look at him instead.
Counter attack these Support
Shroobs by jumping right when
they run halfway across the
screen towards you (remember not
to overdo it to the first
Shroob).

The other attack will be their
bomb throw, where the Support
Shroobs will simply throw the
bomb at you. Right when you see
the hammer icons above your head
look at the Shroob-omb's eyes to
see him winking. The eye he
winked with will tell which
Brother the Support Shroobs will
throw the bomb at (right eye
means Mario while left eye means
Luigi). Now pull out your
hammers, and whack away the
giant bomb when it is about an
inch above its intended target.
If you successfully hit the
Shroob-omb away from you, the
Support Shroobs will hammer it
back to the other Brother.
Continue to hit the Shroob-omb
away from you (it will alternate
Brothers), and it will
eventually explode on all three
Support Shroobs causing them to
take serious damage. If the
Shroob-omb hits you, both
Brothers will take lethal damage
and possible get dizzy, so be
very careful. After this attack,
the Support Shroobs will call on
for another Shroob-omb.

Continue to attack the second or
the last Shroob in the trio, and
the two remaining will flash red
when you kill him. The flashing
Shroobs will attack the same way
as before, so don't let your
guard down as you go for the
second Shroob. If you
successfully killed the last two
Shroobs in the line, the Shroob-
omb will squash the first Shroob
in the line, and will roll
behind him causing hit to
explode on the Pink Shroob from
before.


As the Pink Shroob enters the
battlefield, he will blow his
whistle and will summon many
Shroobs to quickly attack both
Brothers. The support Shroobs
will either be thrown into the
air to pound you in the head, or
they will start to spin slowly
into you. Either way, you have
to hammer them away before they
touch you, or you will take
damage. Knock away the spinning
Shroobs by hammering when they
are in front of you, and get rid
of the flying Shroobs by
whacking them when they are
halfway down the bottom screen.
Note that the direction the Pink
Shroob hits the Support Shroobs
tells which Brother he will be
shooting for (you need to look
at the shadow of the flying
Shroobs to see where they are
heading). After all of the
Support Shroobs attack, it will
be your turn to attack the
Commander Shroob, the real boss.

This guy has quite a bit of
health, so you should attack him
with everything you got before
he goes off hiding again. The
best items to use are Red shells
and Copy Flowers. You can also
use Ice Flowers, as they deal
critical damage and can quite
possible lower his defense. So
attack the Commander Shroob in
this way, and he will attack you
again after a few more turns (by
throwing the Support Shroobs at
you). If you were not able to
kill the Commander Shroob in
three full turns (which you
probably won't as he has lost of
health), he will call out
another three Support Shroobs to
attack you with the infamous
Shroob- omb. Kill the Support
Shroobs like you did before
(leave the first one alone), and
attack the Commander Shroob with
powerful attacks again when he
pops back out (fortunately, if
you lowered any of his stats
from before, it will stay
lowered). As the battle
progresses on, the Commander
Shroob will throw the Support
Shroobs at you faster and more
often, and the trio of support
Shroobs will play ping pong with
you with the Shroob-omb longer
than before.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


When you bean the Commander
Shroob and his Support Shroobs,
continue to walk up the icy
pathway to get to the next area.
In here, jump onto the icy star
platform, and listen to
Stuffwell as he tells you about
the Cobalt Shards. After the
Cobalt Star stops talking to
you, he will make a starry path
to your right. So walk across
the pathway (the pathway is
long, so feel free to roll
across). After you pass the long
curvy pathway, you will end up
on an island with a blue pipe.
Hit the Regroup Block to get
back with the Babies, then jump
down the pipe to get into
another new world.






================================
        Star Shrine             
================================

As you come out of the pipe, you
will appear in a large world in
the sky. To start, get the
*BEAN* from the X marker right
below the pipe, and save with
the Save Block to your direct
right. Now that your game is
saved, walk up the starry path
in front of you, and you will
automatically talk to the star
gate when you get to the next
island. Watch the long cut
scene, and you will find out
that you have to find the Aurora
Block to pass the gate. Now that
the star gate is done talking,
walk across another starry path
to your right to get to the next
island. In here, you will
immediately notice that there
are Fly Guys and Hand Fakes
roaming around the island.
Before you try to continue to
the next island for the Aurora
block, you should defeat all of
the enemies here to get needed
experience. You will also notice
that there are item blocks
scattered around the cliffs and
ledges on this island, but take
care of the enemies first so
they don't disturb you. There is
one Fly Guy in the middle of the
island, and two Hand Fakes at
the bottom near the right
corner. After you get rid of all
of these enemies, get back to
the left side of the island,
throw the Babies off your backs,
and walk up the slanted cliff.
Now that you are on the top of
the cliff, Spin Jump right to
land on another cliff with a '?'
block. Hit this block to get 2
Mix Flowers, and Spin Jump to
the small cliff to your upper
right. From here, simply Spin
Jump to the long cliff in the
upper right corner, and rapidly
hit the M block to get some
10-coin pieces. After getting
the coins, walk left, Spin Jump
past the gap, and rapidly hit
another M block here to get some
20 coin pieces. After getting
these coins, drop back to the
ground, and walk to the lower
right corner where the Hand
Fakes used to be. You will see a
short cliff with a '?' block, so
get the Babies on the cliff by
using the Spinning Babies
technique. Hit this block to get
2 Red Shells, get back down to
the ground, and get to the next
area through the star path in
the front part of this area.

Now that you are on the next
island, you will notice that
this place had quite a few
platforms in the sky and a new
(and strange looking) enemy
roaming around. Jump on the
green enemy to your right (it
has a small Piranha Plant on the
top) to fight against this new
guy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Piranha Planet
---------------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 130
Experience Points: 155

Although this Piranha Planet
appears rarely, he is still a
pain in the butt. Because he is
very fast, he will attack you
first.

The first attack this guy has in
store for you is his spinning
attack. You will notice when he
uses his attack because you will
see 7 other small Piranhas pop
out of the other pipes in the
small planet. Now the planet
will spin around for about 2
seconds, and the Piranhas will
shoot towards you. To dodge
these annoying attacks, jump the
second the Piranhas shoot
towards you (you will see a
small cloud poof out of the
planed every time a Piranha
shoots). The Piranhas will shoot
out in the order they came out
of the pipes, so remember which
Piranhas came out first. It is
not hard to discover that the
Green Piranhas will aim for
Luigi and the Red ones will go
for Mario.

The other attack the Piranha
Planet has is his laser gun,
which is much easier to dodge.
You will notice that the red
Piranha will either pop out of
the top or the bottom of the
planet with his gun. If he comes
out of the top, he will aim for
Mario, but if he comes out of
the bottom, he will go for
Luigi. The Piranha will shoot
out his laser about a second
after he pulls out his gun. So
wait for a second, and jump
right when he shoots the gun.

After the Piranha Planet attacks
you, attack him by simply
jumping or by using moderately
strong attack items. Bro Flowers
and Ice Flowers aren't that
great (they only deal about 45
damage), and Shells are
completely useless (as the enemy
floats from the ground. Continue
to dodge the Planet's attacks as
you jump on his head, and he
will eventually die giving your
deserved Experience Points.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing this Piranha
Planet, continue to walk right
staying low, and you will
eventually see a '?' block on
top of a step. Jump up to the
second step, hit the block to
get 2 Trampolines, and start to
walk back to the upper left
corner. As you walk, kill the
Piranha Planet, and jump on the
Thwack to start a (sort of) new
battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------
Enemy: Wonder Thwack
--------------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 60
Experience Points: 30

Wonder Thwacks are just like
Thwacks, except they are
stronger, faster, and much
harder to dodge. Even with their
increased speed, they are still
slow, so Mario will be going
first. Thwacks were always
vulnerable to physical attacks,
so your best bet is to use smash
Eggs or Copy Flowers. After you
deal some damage to this Thwack,
it will be his turn to attack
you.

The Wonder thwacks attack the
same way as the normal ones,
except you have to use your
hammer at a slightly different
time when he uses his aerial
attack. Before, you could simply
smash the Thwack right when he
stops above you, but this time,
he will be too high to attack
when he hovers. This means that
the only way to attack him is to
swing your hammer right when he
starts to crash down on you.
Continue to whack away the other
Wonder Thwacks the same way, and
you will successfully counter
attack all of them. Note that
the red Thwacks will attack
Mario and the green ones will
attack Luigi as usual. A strange
property the thwacks have is
their weakness to the Flower
attacks. The Green Thwacks are
weak to Bro Flowers while
resistant to Ice Flowers, and
the red thwacks are exactly the
opposite. This means that you
should never use Flowers (except
for Copy Flowers) on the thwacks
unless there is only one color.

The other attack the Wonder
Thwack has is his sliding attack
that you have to jump to avoid.
Counter attack these Thwacks as
you did to the original ones,
but you should jump about a
split second later than you
usually do, because they will be
a very brief delay between the
Thwack's movement and contact.

The Wonder Thwacks will also
break up into a yellow brick and
attack both Brothers with two
boulders like the normal ones.
So watch out for that, because
it will come at you when you
least expect it.

Continue to attack the Wonder
Thwacks in this way (try to kill
them all at once, because they
can call for reinforcements),
you will be rewarded with some
lousy Experience Points.

Possible Items Obtained: 1-Up
Super
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have killed the
Wonder Thwack, walk back to the
right side of the area, and
climb the long set of steps to
get near a short star path in
the air. Unfortunately, these
paths cannot be stepped on, so
you have to live with Spin
Jumping across platforms. So
throw the Babies off your back
and Spin Jump across the star
path to get to a long blue
platform to your left. From
here, take the pathway
diagonally down, and cross the
star oath to another long blue
platform to your left. On this
platform, walk to the lower
right corner, and Spin Jump back
right across the pathway to get
onto a small platform with an M
block. Hit this block to get 2
Ultra Drops, get back on the
second long platform, and Spin
Jump across the star path in the
lower left corner to get to
another small platform with yet
another M block. Whack this
block to get a Shroom Badge A,
and Spin Jump to the platform
directly in front of you to get
to a '?' block. Hit this block
to get a 1-Up Mushroom, and Spin
Jump back across platforms until
you get to the first long
platform. Now take the upper
left pathway that you previously
skipped, Spin Jump past two more
star paths to get to a
triangular cliff, and walk
across the large starry path to
your left to get to the next
area.

In this area, you will be on a
large golden star platform with
a regroup block in the middle.
So hit the Regroup Block to get
back with the Babies, and walk
up the large starry path to get
to the next star platform. In
here, you will see a yellow gear
in the middle of the platform,
and a yellow trampoline to your
left. So throw the Babies off
your back, get them on the
yellow trampoline, and you will
end up on a platform in the sky.
On this platform, drink up three
drops of water, and stand on the
arrow facing to the right. Now
take control of the Big
Brothers, and make them spin the
gear in the middle of the
platform to get the Aurora Block
up in the sky near the Babies.
Wait for a few seconds as the
Aurora block hovers on the
strong air current, and shoot
out your drops of water about
one second after you see it fall
down. If you hit the Aurora
block with the water, it will
fly to the other side waiting to
be hit. Now that the Aurora
block is secure on the right
side of the sky platforms, spit
out the rest of the water, and
drop down the hole to your left
to get back to the ground.
Ignore the Big Brothers for now,
and walk to the right side of
the star platform to get to
another trampoline. Jump up this
trampoline, and hit the Aurora
to push it down to the star
platform. Now drop down the hole
to get on the ground once again,
get back with the Big Brothers,
and hit the Aurora block to get
it back to the star gate (using
the Babies extra jump). Now that
you accomplished your tack, walk
down the starry pathway to get
back to the first star platform.
From here, take the pathway to
your left to get onto the upper
left island on this starry
world.

The upper left island is similar
to the upper right, except it
has different item blocks and
fewer platforms. Before you drop
straight to the ground, throw
the Babies off your back, and
Spin Jump past three star paths
to get onto the long blue
hovering platform. Now walk down
the platform to the lower right,
and spin jump across the star
path to get to another long
platform with two paths to
cross. Spin Jump past the upper
one first and hit the '?' block
to get an Ultra Drop. To save
time, Spin Jump to the lower
platform with the M block, and
rapidly hit the block to get
some 20 coin pieces. Now that
you got the items in the sky,
drop back to the ground, and get
back with the Babies that you
threw down before (if they are
not on the ground, get them
there). After getting back with
the Babies, kill the red Wonder
Thwack floating around above
you, and walk straight left
(staying near the south wall
again) to fight another annoying
Piranha Planet and to get to
another '?' block. Hit this
block to get 2 Ice Flowers, kill
another Wonder Thwack trying to
squash you, and continue to walk
left until you see the '?' block
on a yellow platform. Hit the
block to get 2 Mix Flowers, walk
back to the lower middle part of
the island, and go down the
starry pathway to get to the
next island.

This island is infested with
Hand fakes and Fly guys, and is
loaded with items like the lower
right island. From here, jump to
the platform with the Hand Fake
roaming around, kill him, and
jump up another two steps to
your right to get under an L
block. Hit this block to get 2
Max Mushrooms, drop back to the
ground, and walk down to the
lower right corner to get near a
'?' block on a short platform.
Kill the Hand Fake walking
around first, and then use the
Spinning Babies technique to get
to the Babies on the platform.
Get the 2 Mix Flowers from the
block, get back with the Big
Brothers, and walk to the far
left to get to another '?'
block. Hit this block to get 2
Red Shells, get back with the
Big Brothers, and walk straight
up to fight against another Fly
Guy. After killing this annoying
enemy, jump back to the platform
where you fought the first Hand
Fake on this island, and jump
across the purple platforms to
get near the L block. Rapidly
hit this block to get some
10-coin pieces, drop back to the
ground after you got every last
coin, and walk to the right side
of this island past the starry
path to get back to the island
with the star gate.

When you step on this island,
the Brothers will automatically
walk to the star gate to talk to
him. Watch the cut scene, and
try to make Luigi strike the
Aurora block when the star gate
tells you to. After two tries,
the star gate will shout at you
and will ask you a question
about the Aurora Block. From the
three choices, you can choose
any of them (it won't matter as
they are all wrong). After you
try to answer the star gates
question three times, he will
tell you the real answer (which
was not listed). Watch the rest
of the cut scene, and strike the
Aurora block for the fifth time,
and the star gate will finally
open to let you pass. After the
gate opens, walk through the
large starry path to get to the
island in the middle of the Star
Shrine.

From here, jump up to the second
platform, get the *BEAN* from
the left side, and continue to
jump up the platforms to find
the blue pipe. Before you go
through the pipe, get a second
*BEAN* from the X marker right
below it. Now that you jumped
through the pipe, you will end
up in the second part of the
Star Shrine with four more
islands. Before you continue
your quest for the Cobalt Shard,
get another *BEAN* in the left
side on the star island, and
save with the Save Block to your
right. Now that you have saved,
walk down the starry path to get
on the second star platform.

On this platform, kill the
Wonder Thwack to your left and
the Piranha Planet to your
right, and hit the '?' block to
your left again for 2 Ice
Flowers. After getting the Ice
flowers, get another *BEAN* from
the X marker to the left of the
blue pipe, and hit the '?" block
to your right for 2 Bro Flowers.
Not that you have gotten all of
the goodies on the surface of
this island, throw the Babies in
the pipe to your left to get
near another '?' block and a
Skellokey. Kill the Skellokey
first, and them hit the '?'
block to reveal a handy 100-coin
piece that will fly up to the
surface. Grab the coin with the
Big Brothers, get the Babies out
of the pipe, and get back
together as a group of four
again. Now hop on the blue
circular platform to your right,
and hit the purple star block to
send out a red and purple beam
from the platform. This beam
will not do anything for now,
but it will help you as you
progress though this shrine. Now
that the first two beams are
shot out, walk down the star
path below you to get to the
next area.

As you step on this platform,
you will immediately notice that
there is a giant green building
in front of you with a shine
block in the middle of the star
platform. You know what this
means, you will have to use the
Babies to navigate through
another dark cave. First throw
the Babies on the short ledge on
the green building, and get
Mario to hit the Shine Block to
release out a shine. Hit the
shine with Baby Mario, and
quickly start to walk diagonally
across the pathways. When you
reach the intersection on the
second platform, quickly take a
left, and continue to walk to
the fourth platform with a '?'
block. Rapidly hit this block to
get some measly coins, and hit
the Shine block again to light
up your pathway. Instead of
backtracking, hop across the
platform to your right, and jump
to the platform with the 'L'
block by continuing right.
Rapidly hit this block to get
some 10-coin pieces and light up
your pathway (make sure you use
the right Brother). Now jumping
to another platform to your
right, walk down until you reach
the platform with an '?' block,
and hit it to get a 20 coin
piece. After getting the blue
coin, light up your pathway
again, and walk down until you
see the M block on a platform to
your right. Get to this platform
by jumping to the path that
leads to the block, and hit the
block to get a pair of Stache
Jeans (a very god set of jeans).
After getting these jeans, equip
it to the weaker Baby Brother,
light up the cave one more time,
and jump across the platforms to
your left until you get to
another illuminated platform.
Here, simply walk down to get
back outside the green building,
and hit the star block to bring
it down on the blue circular
platform to your right. Now get
back with the Big Brothers from
the cliff you are on, but DO NOT
hit the star block yet!! Hitting
this star block will disrupt the
two other beams by emitting two
new ones, so it is best to hit
this star block after you hit
the one on the third star
platform. Now that you are back
with the Big Brothers, continue
to walk along the starry path to
your right, and you will find
yourself on the third star
platform.

This platform is almost
identical to the first one,
except it does not have any item
boxes but a regroup block. Feel
free to regroup with the Little
Tykes if you haven't yet, and
kill the Piranha Planet and the
Wonder Thwack roaming around to
your right. After clearing the
platform of enemies, get the
*BEAN* near the Regroup Block,
and hit the Star Block in the
upper left corner to emit two
more beams (use the Babies as a
boost). You will notice that the
red and the blue beam will
disappear (this is normal), and
the purple beams will connect.
This is what you want to do with
the four remaining beams. Now
that you have connect the purple
beams, walk back to the second
star platform, and hit the Star
Block here to shoot out a green
and yellow beam. The other
yellow beam is on the fourth
star platform, so walk there.
You will notice that this
platform has a green building
like the second platform, but it
does not contain another dark
cave fortunately. As you walk
onto this platform, you will
notice that there are 12 star
marks on the ground, and a
purple '!' block to near the
ledge of the green building.
When you hit this block, you
will notice that the color of
the star marks will quickly
change to the following pattern:

Key:

R = Red
G = Green

R R G G
 G R G R
  R G R G

After you looked at the pattern,
throw the Babies to the green
ledge in front of you, and get
them through the door to get
into a small cave with many '!'
blocks. If you read the poster
in the upper right corner, it
will tell you that if Baby Mario
hits the blue '!' block, it will
turn green, and if Baby Mario
hits one, it will turn red. You
should probably conclude by now
that you have to hit the '!'
blocks so it matches the color
pattern as previously shown. So
hit the blocks with the correct
Baby, after you got the blocks
in the proper pattern, a giant
red circle will appear on the
screen confirming you got the
right pattern, and the Star
Block will appear and hover to
the circle platform in the lower
left corner. Now get the Babies
back with the Big Brothers, and
hit the Star Block to send out
two more beams (one red and one
yellow). The red and the green
beams will instantly disappear
as the two yellow beams will
connect forming another
connection (two down, three to
go). After getting the yellow
beams to connect, walk back to
the third star platform to hit
the star block (to emit the blue
beam), and walk forward again
until you get to the fifth and
final Star platform with the
last Star Block.

This platform is similar to the
first one, but it only has a
wonder Thwack, and two pipes. So
kill the Wonder thwack before he
squashes you, get the *BEAN*
near the left pipe, and throw
the Babies down the pipe on the
right side to get them near two
'?' blocks. Hit the right block
to get a 100-coin piece (get it
with the Big Brothers), and hit
the left one to get 2 Red
Shells. After getting these
goodies, jump back out of the
pipe, and get back with the big
Brothers. Now throw the Babies
into the pipe to your left, and
kill the Skellokey hiding out in
here. After disposing of the
Skellokey, jump back out of the
pipe using the trampoline, get
back with the big Brothers, and
hit the star block on the blue
circular platform behind you to
connect the two blue beams. Now
that the two blue beams are
connected, hit this Star Block
one more time to bring out the
green beam, and walk all the way
to the second star platform to
hit the Star block that will
connect the green beams (only
one left!). To connect the last
two beams, hit the Star Block on
the first star platform, and hit
the Star Block on the third
platform. Now that you have
connected all of the beams, a
platform with a blue pipe will
appear in the middle of the
star. To get there, walk up the
fifth star platform, and walk
down one of the star pathways to
get the blue pipe. Hop down this
pipe, and you will appear in the
third part of the Star Shrine
(trust me; it is a lot smaller
than it looks). Right when you
enter this part of the Star
Shrine, and save with the Save
Block in the upper right corner
to avoid losing your data.

Now that you have saved, walk up
the pathway in front of you to
get into the next room, and
immediately kill the Piranha
Planet In front of you before he
rams into you. After killing
this pest, hit the '?' block to
your right to get 2 Copy
Flowers, and hit another '?'
block ahead of you to the left
for 2 Ultra Shrooms. After you
get these goodies, continue
walking along the hallways, and
you will enter the third room
with the Cobalt Shard. After
Stuffwell stops talking, step on
the big blue button in front of
you and the fourth Cobalt shard
will fall into your hands. Watch
the rest of this cut scene, and
Kylie Koopa, Toadbert, and the
Cobalt Shards will fly into the
next room through the door in
front of you. After all of this
happens, walk into the next room
through the door everybody ran
through, and you will end up in
a room with a large flight of
red stairs.

From here, walk to your right on
the pathway, and hit the '?'
block you encounter for 2 Pocket
Chomps. Now walk back left
ignoring the stairs for now,
kill the Piranha Planet and the
Wonder Thwack, and throw the
Babies off your back when you
see gap in the wall to your far
left. Squish the Babies to turn
them into small cakes, and use
the Babies to jump up the blue
steps inside the wall. When you
reach the first small fan, take
a right turn, and rapidly hit
the '?' block in the pit to your
right after you recover to get
some coins. After getting the
coins, jump back to the ground,
walk to the left again, and go
through the pits in the wall
after getting squashed by the
Big Brothers. You have to move
quickly as you move through the
tight spaces, or you will
recover too quickly before you
can reach the two item blocks.
To get to these item blocks,
take a left turn at the first
fan, continue to follow the
pathway as you pass the second
fan, and take another left turn
when you reach the third fan.
Quickly follow the path as you
go past two more fans, and you
will find yourself in a pit with
an M and an L block. Hit the L
block to get a Hit-Free Badge,
and rapidly hit the M block to
your right to get a few 10-coin
pieces. The Hit-Free Badge is
useful for normal battles, but
don't bother wearing it for Boss
Battles. After getting these
goodies, drop back to the floor,
have the Big Brothers roll over
you again, and go through the
pathway in the wall one more
time to get on top of the cliff.
To get there, take a left turn
at the first fan, continue
across the path at the second,
and take a right turn at the
third fan. Pass two more fans
normally, and you will
eventually reach a closed up
gate on a platform near the top
of the cliff. Dig through the
ground to get past the door, and
you will enter a small cavern.
As you enter this cavern, get a
*BEAN* from the X marker in the
upper left corner, and jump down
the stairs to your right to get
to a red witch that is begging
to be hit. So whack the switch
with your hammer, and you will
see a peg jut out of the wall
near the red staircase to your
far right. Now that you have
pressed the red button, get back
outside the cavern, drop down to
the ground, and get back with
the Big Brothers before you even
think of climbing up the stairs.
Now walk all the way right, and
jump up the purple stairs until
you reach the right wall. Now
throw the Babies off your back
making sure they land on the red
step near the right wall, and
Spin into them to they fly into
the air. As they float up high,
navigate them so they land on
the red step directly to your
left. After they have safely
landed, take control of the Big
Brothers, and Spin Jump left to
get back with the Babies.
Finally, jump up the rest of the
steps to your left, and you will
end up on the upper cliff to
your left. Now that you are on
the cliff, continue to walk
left, and kill the Wonder Thwack
and the Piranha Planet as you
do. After disposing of both
enemies, hit the '?' blocks to
your left to get 2 Ice Flowers
and a 20 coin piece. Get to the
next room by walking up the blue
pathway in the middle of the
blue cliff.

This area contains a Save Block,
so a Boss Battle is up ahead.
But before you save, walk along
the blue path taking a left
turn, and hit both '?' blocks to
get 2 Red Peppers and 2
Refreshing Herbs. Continue up
the path, and hit another '?'
block to get 2 Ice Flowers. The
two item blocks at the front of
the area has 2 Copy Flowers and
2 Ultra Drops, so get those from
the '?' and M blocks, but DO NOT
press the blue button yet.
Instead, continue along the path
hitting one more '?' block to
get a 1-Up Super. When you get
back to the Save Block, equip
the Babies in Unarmed Jeans,
heal up with Mushrooms or
Mushroom Drops, and save with
the Save Block. After you have
saved, walk back to the front of
the area, and press the blue
button to get to the next area.

As you enter this area, watch
this short cut scene, and
Toadbert will tell you to rub
off the dirt from the sketch. So
use your stylus to clean up the
smudges in the lower right
corner (cleaning up the other
smudges are unnecessary), and
you will reveal a small version
of the large Shroob originally
on the drawing. After you
cleaned the sketch, a red
monster will come out of nowhere
and will eventually fight you in
a battle.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------------
Boss Battle: Elder Shroob
-------------------------

Difficulty: Hard Health: Normal
Form: 1700, Angry Form: 1100
Experience Points: 1500


Right when you enter this
battle, Elder Shroob will walk
in front of one of the Brothers,
wait for a second, and will spin
into you dealing a lot of
damage. You can stop Elder
Shroob from doing this by
rapidly hammering him before he
starts to spin. This is very
difficult as you have to rapidly
hammer the Elder Shroob
perfectly to stop him, or he
will surely spin into you to
hurt you (at least three times).
Now that Elder Shroob used up
his attack, it is your turn to
punish him.

Don't bother jumping on Elder
Shroob or using any attack items
that require you to jump, as the
spikes on his head will only
hurt you back. You best bet is
to use Ice Flowers as they are
very effective and might even
lower his stats. Use Ice Flowers
for both Brothers at first, and
the Elder Shroob will attack you
again.

One of the annoying attacks the
Elder Shroob has is his trap
attack. For this attack, the
Elder Shroob will throw two
yellow prisms around you (kind
of like the prisms from the
Shroids), and he will slowly
walk towards you with a chain
Chomp. You have to quickly break
out of these prisms by rapidly
jumping, or the Elder Shroob
will deliver a deadly blow when
he attacks you. As he moves
closer with the spinning chain
chomp, he will accidentally drop
it when he gets in the middle of
the battle field. Now the Elder
Shroob will get angry and kick
the Chain Chomp at Luigi.
Quickly avoid the chain chomp by
making Luigi jump, and make
Mario jump shortly after to
dodge the Elder Shroob when he
tries to head butt you. If you
jump quickly at the right time,
you can actually make Mario
counter attack the Elder Shroob
as he flies between your legs.
Note that sometimes the chain
chomp will be kicked to Mario,
so look at the color of the
chain chomps mouth to see which
Brother it will be kicked to
(Red for Mario and Green for
Luigi). Both of these attacks
can chip away over 30 HP, so
make sure you break out of the
prisms in time.

Another attack the Elder Shroob
can use against you is his
fireballs. Like Mario in the
previous games, the elder Shroob
will throw fireballs at both
Brothers randomly. Fortunately,
you can tell which Brother the
Elder Shroob is aiming for by
looking at the hands he throws
the fireballs with. After you
dodge about five fireballs, the
Elder Shroob will be finished
with his attack.

Sometimes, but not frequently,
the Elder Shroob will throw a
spiked ball at you causing it to
spin around both Brothers at an
ever increasing pace. This
attack is fairly easy to dodge,
as you only have to hammer away
the spiked ball before it hurts
one of you. If you successfully
deflected the spiked ball, the
Elder Shroob will fall down on
the ground making him vulnerable
to jumping attacks (and similar
attack items). If you get hit by
the spiked ball, you will take
serious damage and might even
get poisoned, so be careful.

Continue to bombard the Elder
Shroob with Ice Flowers and Copy
Flowers when he falls down, and
you will easily beat the first
form.


The second form of the Elder
Shroob is quite a bit harder
than the first because he is
obviously stronger than the
first. As he grows big, you will
notice that a saucer will hover
over your heads with a counter
starting at 4. This saucer is
your biggest threat because it
will instantly kill you with a
giant laser gun if the counter
reaches 0. Other than that, the
Elder Shroob's attacks are
essentially the same, except for
the fact that everything he uses
is larger. This means that his
attack items will cause more
damage and will be harder to
dodge.

If you see the counter reach 2
or 1, it is time for you to
reset it back to 3. To do this,
you have to counter attack the
spiked ball from the Elder
Shroob so it hits the saucer
above you head on. If you
deflect the spiked ball with
Baby Luigi's hammer, the spiked
ball will shoot directly above
you. So deflect the spiked ball
with Baby Luigi if the saucer is
hovering above you so its timer
can go back up. On the other
hand, if you hit the spiked ball
with Baby Mario's hammer, it
will fire at an angle to your
right causing it to hit the
saucer only if it is hovering
over the Elder Shroob. The
saucer frequently moves back and
forth, so make sure you hit the
spiked ball at the right angle
with the right Brother if you
want to reset the counter.

Your main goal is to kill the
Elder Shroob before you can make
any sort of stupid mistake. So
your best bet is to use Copy
Flowers if he is knocked down,
or to use Ice flowers if he is
standing upright. Fortunately,
the Elder Shroob seems to have a
lower defense after he grew
twice his size, so this battle
shouldn't take too long if you
are not under leveled. So
continue to attack the Elder
Shroob with powerful attack
items as you keep the counter of
the saucer at a high number (3
or 4), and you will eventually
beat him giving you a great
amount of Experience Points (but
no items).

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that you have beaten the
Elder Shroob, watch the short
cut scene as you get the fifth
Cobalt Shard, and walk up the
cliff ahead of you to get to the
next room after Stuffwell stops
talking. In this room, simply
jump through the time hole in
the middle of the room to get
back to Peaches Castle Sewers.





================================
        Castle Sewers [p21]
================================

Now that you have entered the
sewers, walk back to the upper
left corner of the entire sewer
pipes to get back to Peaches
Castle. Back in the castle, walk
all the way to the items shop
(in the upper right room) to buy
some new items.


--------------------------------
Sixth Shop Stop: 6000 Coins

The only things that are new in
the Mushroom shop are the Max
Mushrooms, Ultra Drops and 1-Up
Supers. Don't buy any of these
as they are expensive and can be
easily found from enemies of
item blocks. Instead, buy 10 Red
Shells (you are probably low on
them by now), 20 Ice Flowers,
and 20 more Green Shells. This
may seem like a lot of money,
but it should only take away
about 1000 coins from your
wallet. After getting these
attack items, talk to the other
toad to buy some equipment.

When you talk to the other toad,
select the Clothing tab to learn
that the toad has Royal Trousers
and pants in stock. Get only one
set of the Royal Pants, put it
on the Baby that is not wearing
the Stache Jeans, and pick up
two pairs of Royal Trousers to
significantly increase the Big
Brothers defense. After you pick
up these clothes, select the
badges tab and buy 2 Cure Badge
As (they recover 10 HP per turn,
so they are very useful if you
are low on Mushrooms).

After getting all of these
items, exit the shop with around
1400 Coins remaining.
--------------------------------


Now that you bought the needed
items for the tough battle ahead
of you, walk back to the
Professor, and talk to him to
learn that the time hole leading
to the Shroob Castle is on the
third floor. To get to the third
floor with the time hole leading
to the Shroob Castle, take the
flight of stairs to your left to
the second floor, and take the
second flight of stairs leading
to the third floor. When you get
to the third floor, walk to the
middle room to your right, save
with the Save Block, and jump
down the time hole (that has an
arrow pointing to it on the map)
to get to the front gates of the
Shroob Castle.





================================
    Peaches Castle (past) AKA
    Shroob Castle [p22]
================================

After exiting of the time hole,
walk forward up the pathway to
the front gate, and the Cobalt
Star will open it up for you.
Continue up to get to the next
area inside the castle walls.
Right when you enter the front
of the castle, you will see a
gray version of a Tanoomba in
the form of a '?' block, a toad,
a coin, or a Thwack (like the
normal one). Jump on his head to
engage in a new battle against
this beefed up version of a
Tanoomba.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Tashrooba
----------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 125
Experience Points: 150


Tashroobas are just like normal
Tanoombas, except they are a lot
faster, stronger, and are gray.
Tashroobas are very fast, so
they will always attack first
(even if you are only the
Babies). Like the Tanoombas, the
Tashrooba can fall on you (as a
form of a balloon or a Thwomp),
or they can turn into a small
spiky shell and spin around
trying to hurt you. Deflect the
attacks of the Tashrooba like
you did to the normal Tanoombas,
except you have to swing your
hammer slightly earlier when he
is trying to crush you. If the
Tashrooba is in a form of a
Thwomp, swing your hammer when
it enters the bottom screen. On
the other hand, swing your
hammer slightly later if it is
in a form of a balloon.

The only annoying thing that is
new about the Tashroobas is the
fact that they can spin so fast,
they can cause you to entirely
screw up (when they turn into a
shell). To dodge this shell,
first know which direction the
Tashrooba is spinning to (same
way as the Tanoombas), and make
each Brother jump separately so
they dodge the quickly spinning
shell. If you decide to make
Both Brothers jump at the same
time, expect to be hit at least
twice if the Tashrooba decides
to spin three times around both
of you.

Continue to attack the
Tashroomba in the same way as
the Tanoombas (use Bro items for
a quick kill), and they will
soon die possible giving you a
nice item.

Possible Items Obtained: Ultra
Shroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have killed this
Tanoomba, take a left turn at
the intersection, kill another
Tanoomba, and walk into the next
area. There is nothing much to
do here for now except to fight
a new enemy and to hit some item
blocks. So continue walking left
until you see the grey boulder-
like creature, and step on him
to ignite a new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------
Enemy: Snoozorb
---------------

Difficulty: Hard
Health: 110
Experience Points: 170


Snoozorbs are very tough enemies
that can deal a crapload of
damage. The good news is that
every time you fight one (or
more), the Snoozorbs will be
sleeping, meaning that you will
always attack first regardless
of speed or status. The
Snoozorbs will remain idle until
you attack them, so you can use
this time to power up with
Mushrooms, or let your Cure
Badge heal you up. When you
decide to attack the Snoozorbs,
use a green or Red Shell to try
to take them out quickly. If you
haven't killed them on the first
shot, the Snoozorb will wake up
and will attack you with one of
two strong attacks.

The first attack the Snoozorb
has for you, is his rolling
attack, where he will roll into
you trying to hit you. To
deflect this attack, pull out
your hammers, and whack him back
until he decides to stop rolling
into you. To deflect this
attack, simply release your
hammer when the Snoozorb gets
right in front of you (be
careful as he might attack you
two or three times in a row).

The other attack the Snoozorb
can use against you is his laser
attack. This attack is very
dangerous as it will deal a lot
of damage. Sometimes, the laser
will shoot out to the bottom of
the Brother (forcing you to jump
to avoid it), or up in the air.
If the laser is shot in the air,
DO NOT jump, or you will hit the
laser. The laser might even move
from one Brother to the next
(for example, it will initially
aim for Mario, and then it will
shoot for Luigi). The best way
to avoid this attack is to make
the First target Brother jump
(or not jump) when the laser
gets shot, and to make the other
Brother dodge the laser in the
proper fashion to avoid it if it
moves to him.

Continue to avoid these attacks
as you bombard the Snoozorb with
shells and Flowers, and they
will eventually die giving you a
good amount of Experience
Points.

Possible items Obtained: Red
Shell
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing the Snoozorbs,
walk up to both of the '?'
blocks, and hit each one to get
2 Copy Flowers and 2 Red
Peppers. After getting these
goodies, walk back to the room
to your right (the one with both
Tashroobas), and walk straight
up the pathway until you see a
Shine block. Ignore the block
for now, and hit both '?' blocks
to your right for 2 Copy Flowers
and 2 Red Peppers (Sounds
familiar?).

After getting these items,
rapidly hit the L block for some
10-coin pieces, and walk up to
the wall directly to the left of
the Princess Shroob statue. Now
throw the Babies on the ledge,
walk inside the dark cave to
your far left, and get the big
Brothers under the Shine Block.
Hit the Shine block with Mario
to light up the dark cave and to
reveal a very skinny (and broken
up) pathway. Quickly walk
straight up the path until you
see an '?' block. Hit this block
to get 2 Refreshing Herbs, hit
the Shine Block again, and
continue along the pathway
taking a left turn this time.
Continue to walk along the
pathway that will get skinnier
after each platform, and you
will soon reach the platform
with the Purple '!' block. When
you do, hit this block to lower
a blue bridge near the pathway
in the back of the cave, light
up the room once again, and
navigate the path until you
reach the bridge. When you are
here, jump to the short pathway
to your right, and jump to the
moving platform after it moves
to the left. Now on this moving
platform, stay at the bottom
ledge, and jump off after the
platform moves halfway right to
get to a bridge leading to
another '?' block. Hit this
block to get 2 Red Shells, light
up the cave again, and jump back
on the moving platform. This
time, jump to the bridge to your
right, and navigate down this
pathway until you reach a fork
in the bridge. From here, take a
right turn, jump to the small
blue platform with the M block,
and rapidly hit it to get some
20 coin pieces. After getting
these coins, light up the path
again, and walk along the
pathway you previously skipped
until you see the exit to the
cave. Be careful as you exit
this cave, because you don't
want to fall down the cliff! Now
walk up the red button to your
left and hit it with your hammer
to get the Purple '!' block
outside of the statue and to
make it reachable by the big
Brothers. After you do this,
drop back to the ground, get
back on the big Brothers backs,
and hit the Purple '!' block you
freed to build a small bridge
making the right part of the
level accessible to you.

Now that the bridge is build,
walk across it to get to the
next area. Like the previous
area, this one is filled up with
enemies, so heal up before you
fight even one of them. After
you heal up, walk across the
ground to fight a Snoozorb and
two Tashroobas, and you will
eventually come across a fence
blocking your pathway. Throw the
Babies off your back, dig
through the fence, and pop out
of the ground when you get on
the other side. Ignore the three
'?' blocks scattered around here
for now, and hit the red button
in the upper right corner to
open up the gate for the Big
Brothers. After you opened the
gate, take control of the Big
Brothers, and get back with your
younger selves. Now hit the
lower right block to get 3 Bro
Flowers, and the upper left one
to get a 20 coin piece. Rapidly
hit the other '?' block to get
some measly coins, and walk
through the door in front of you
to get to the next area after
you have gotten all of the
goodies in this room. In here,
simply jump through the blue
pipe to enter the first floor of
the Shroob Castle (with some
annoying enemies).

Right when you get here, save
with the Save Block right below
you. Now that you have saved,
walk down to get into the
Shroob's version of Peaches
Garden. The Shroob Garden looks
more like a haunted forest,
because there are so many tree
trunks and enemies roaming
around here. Before you throw
the Babies in any of the tree
trunks, kill the three Snoozorbs
and the two Tashroobas you will
find scattered in this garden.
After killing all of the
enemies, hit the '?' block in
the lower middle part of the
garden to get 3 Copy Flowers,
and hit another '?' block in the
upper left corner to get 2 more
Copy Flowers. Now that you have
gotten all the items on the
surface, throw the Babies in the
tree trunk in the upper left
corner near the '?' block. When
the Babies fall in, make baby
Mario hit the M block to get 3
Ultra Shrooms, and get back
outside to get back with the Big
Brothers. Throw the Babies in
the second tree trunk directly
to your right, and hit both the
M block and the '?' block when
you land. After you hit the '?'
block, immediately get the Big
Brothers to grab the 100-coin
piece that pops out before it
disappears. The M block contains
a Dire Free Badge, which is not
really useful (the Ulti-free
badge is four times better). Now
that you got the items here, get
back outside the tree trunk and
back with the Big Brothers. Walk
down to the third tree in the
middle of the garden, and throw
the Babies in here to get 2 Red
Peppers from a single '?' block.
After getting this item,, get
out of the tree and with the
Brothers again, and walk to the
last tree trunk in the lower
left corner of the garden. This
tree trunk contains two item
blocks like the second tree, so
hit the L block to get 2 1-Up
Supers, and hit the '?' block to
get another 100-coin piece. Of
course, get the large coin with
the Big Brothers. After getting
all of the goodies, jump back
out of the tree trunk, get back
with the Big Brothers one last
time, and walk to the next area
to your left.

In this area, you will see a
yellow Love Bubble and another
Tashrooba. Kill the Tashrooba,
and jump on the yellow bubble to
fight a battle against two
different enemies.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
------------------
Enemy: Soul Bubble
------------------

Difficulty: Very Hard
Health: 100
Experience Points: 150


Soul Bubbles are exactly like
Love Bubbles, except for two
major differences. Like other
upgraded versions of normal
enemies, the Soul Bubbles are
faster and stronger than the
Love Bubbles. This means that
you have to time your jumps
differently when they attack
you.

To dodge the Soul Bubble's dive
bomb attack, jump right when you
see the Soul Bubble dive to you
(as it will shoot at you like a
bullet). If you are lucky
enough, or if you have insane
timing skills, you might be able
to counter attack this attack.
The Soul Bubble's swooping
attack should be dodged in a
similar way as the Love Bubbles,
except you have to make the
Brothers jump slightly earlier
than usual. The attack where the
Soul Bubble spins around you is
not different to deflect that
the Love Bubbles, so swing your
hammer in the same fashion like
you would to the Love Bubbles.

The annoying thing the Soul
Bubbles can do that the Love
Bubbles can't is the ability to
revive dead foes. This means
that if you are fighting two
Soul bubbles and two other
enemies, you must kill the Soul
Bubbles first, or they can bring
the other enemies back to life.
The only good thing about these
Soul Bubbles is the fact that
they can only revive a fallen
foe with only about 40 HP, which
is a lot better than fully
healing a dead enemy.

Possible Items Obtained: 1-Up
Mushroom
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-----------------
Enemy: Shroob Rex
-----------------

Difficulty: Very Hard
Health: 120
Experience Points: 190


Shroob Rexes are extremely
dangerous because they are very
strong, have tons of HP, and
sometimes his attacks cannot be
dodged! Although you will never
see a Shroob Rex walk in the
wild, they will almost always be
paired up with one or two Soul
Bubbles, which makes this team
very dangerous.

The Shroob Rex has four
different attacks, one which may
be impossible to dodge. You may
notice that you will flatten the
Shroob Rex as you jump on his
head, this is very useful as it
makes his rushing attack easier
(or possible) to dodge. When the
Shroob Rex uses his rushing
attack, he will stand in front
of one of the Brothers, run in
place for a few seconds, and
will quickly rush towards you.
After he rams into the first
Brother, he will continue
running, and will try to ram the
other Brother from behind. If
you want to dodge or counter
attack this attack, you must
flatten the Shroob Rex at least
once, although twice will make
him even easier to dodge. If you
were able to flatten the Shroob
Rexes before they attack you,
jump when they start to run
towards you (right after they
stop rushing in place) to
counter attack him. If you
jumped over the Rex's head, you
can still counter attack him by
jumping on his head with the
other Brother. The best time to
make the other Brother jump is
when you hear the rumbling after
the Shroob Rex runs past the
first Brother. This is a sign
that the Shroob Rex is coming
close to you. After you counter
attacked this attack, it is time
to attack the Shroob Rex to get
revenge.

Ice Flowers are a great choice
to use against the Shroob Rexes,
because they are fairly
effective, and will hopefully
reduce his attack or defense. If
you want an easy victory, feel
free to use Mix Flowers. Make
sure you don't use too many Mix
flowers as they are very
expensive and will be very
useful in the final battle. To
squash the Shroob Rexes even
more, you can punish them with
Copy Flowers, Pocket Chomps, or
similar items.

The other attacks the Shroob
Rexes can use against you are
rare, but they can be as
devastating as the rushing
attack. Sometimes, the Shroob
Rex will spit out one or two
boulders at you. You have to use
your hammers to hit these
boulders, so pull them out, and
whack the boulders right before
they hit you. If two boulders
try to hit you at once, simply
whack them both away at the same
time. On the other hand, if a
single boulder tries to hit one
Brother, make sure you pull the
other Brothers' hammer after you
whack the first boulder as the
rest of the boulder will curve
back and try to hit the other
Brother. The final attack the
Shroob Rex can attack you with
is his pound attack, where he
will walk in the middle, the
upper part, or the lower part of
the field, and will pound the
ground. If he was residing in
the middle of the battle field,
the shock waves will try to hit
both Brothers at the same time.
So make both Brothers jump
before the shockwave hits you.
However, if the Shroob Rex was
in front of Luigi or Mario as he
pounds, the shock waves will try
to hit Broth Brothers at
different times. For example, if
the Shroob rex stands in front
of Luigi as he pounds the
ground, make Luigi jump first to
dodge the first shock wave, and
then make Mario jump to dodge
the second shock wave.

Continue to attack the Shroob
Rex in this way, and they will
finally die.

Possible Items Obtained: Mix
Flower, 100-Point Pants
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After you have struggled through
the first battle against the
Soul Bubbles and the Shroob
Rexes, heal up if you need to
(as a tougher battle awaits),
and walk down until you see two
'?' blocks. Hit the right block
to get 3 Smash Eggs, the left
block for 3 Trampolines, and
continue your adventure by
walking into the room to your
left. This room contains a Soul
Bubble. So kill this annoying
bubble, and walk into the next
room by walking through the door
behind you. This room contains
two Spilt Blocks that will
partially activate a laser, but
don't bother hitting them as the
other two Split Blocks are far
away from you for now. Instead,
walk into the lower left corner
of the room (that leads to a
short path with a dead end), and
hit the two '?' blocks to get a
coin and 2 ultra Shrooms. After
getting these goodies, walk all
the way back until you reach the
long room that used to have a
Soul Bubble and a Tashrooba.
Back here, take the pathway in
the front of the room, and you
will end up in a room with two
Soul Bubbles.

Take out both Soul Bubbles
before they kill you (heal up
before you fight them), and walk
through the door to your right
to get to the next area. This
hallway contains two Soul
Bubbles and a Snoozorb, so kill
them as you walk up the hallway,
and you will come across an X
marker. Dig through this marker
to get a *BEAN*, and hit the '?'
block ahead of you get a 1-Up
Super. After getting all of
these items and killing the
enemies, walk back to the
central area with the Save Block
to save your progress for now.
Now that you have saved, get
into the next area by taking the
pathway that leads to the room
to your right (through the
garden). In here, you will see
another duo of Split Blocks with
a laser hovering over it. Ignore
these Split Blocks for now, and
walk through the door in the
upper right corner to get into
the small room. Fortunately,
this room has no enemies, and
better yet, it has a high Coin
Block that can give you another
350 coins! After getting the
coins from this block, continue
to the next hallway by going
through the door in front of
you. Like the other room, this
hallway is small, but is
contains two enemies (two
Tashroobas). So walk across the
hallway to your left ignoring
the Regroup Block, kill the
Tashroobas to get some more
Experience Points, and take the
door to your left to yet another
hallway.

This hallway is very similar to
the hallway on the left side of
the castle, except is has two
Tashroobas and a Snoozorb except
for two Soul Bubbles and a
Snoozorb. So heal up, walk up
the hallway making sure you kill
all three enemies, and hit the
'?' block on your way to get a
10-coin piece. After killing the
last of these enemies, get the
*BEAN* in the middle of the
hallway, give yourself a pat on
the back as you managed to clear
most of enemies from this floor
of the Shroob Castle. Now it is
time to use the lasers to free
the Purple '!' block that will
help you with your progress to
the final battle. Remember the
room you just recently skipped?
Get back into that room by
taking the door in the upper
part of the long hallway to your
right. This room contains yet
another laser with two more
Split Blocks. So throw the
Babies off your back, align them
under the Split Blocks near the
laser, and take control of the
Big Brothers once again. Your
goal is to get the Big Brothers
under the Split Blocks near the
laser in the lower left room of
the castle. So feel free to roll
to speed up your progress as you
navigate through the hallways to
get to the room in the lower
left corner. When you get there,
hit both of the Split Blocks on
the Big Brothers side of the
laser, and hit the two other
Split Blocks on the Babies side
when you see the timer count
down from 10. If you hit all
four blocks in time (and that
should not be really hard), the
two lasers will connect causing
a beam to shoot through the
shield that protects the Purple
'!' block (you are halfway
done!).

After this happens, take control
of the Big Brothers again, and
roll all the way to the laser in
the upper left corner of the
castle (the laser that points
diagonally down, not the one
that points directly to the
right). Likewise, take the
Babies to the final laser in the
lower right corner to prepare
yourselves to hit the Split
Blocks. After you made sure both
sets of Brothers are under the
Split Blocks, hit the first two
with the Big Brothers, and hit
the last two with the Babies in
time to shoot out the other
laser. After you successfully
made the last two lasers connect
with the Purple '!' block's
shield, the force of the laser
will shatter the shield allowing
you to hit the Purple '!' Block.
With the Purple block freed, get
all four Brothers to the middle
room of the castle (you can use
the Regroup Block on the Babies
side if you want to), and walk
the northern part of the room to
see the Purple '!' block reside
on a cliff. To reach the Purple
block, use the Spinning Babies
technique to get the Babies on
the ledge, and hit the block
with Baby Mario to open up the
door that leads to a room with
another blue pipe. Jump down
this pipe, and you will end up
in the second floor of the
castle with the broken bridge
just like Peaches Castle in
present time.

When you get here, ignore the
Save Block in the upper left
corner for now, and drop down to
the hidden staircase right below
you. Walk down the staircase and
get the *BEAN* from the X marker
at the bottom of the steps.
After getting this bean, jump
back up the stairs, save with
the Save Block, and get to the
next area through the door to
your right. In here, you will
see a Soul bubble to your right.
So kill this annoying bugger,
and walk down to see a new
enemy, an old Shroob holding a
Baby Shroob on his back. Jump on
his head to fight this new guy.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------
Enemy: Shroobsworth
-------------------

Difficulty: Hard Health:
Shroobsworth: 160, Intern: 130
Experience Points: 140


Shroobsworths may be the
Shroob's version of the
Toadsworths, but they are a lot
stronger than they look. These
guys may not be weak to a
specific attack, but Ice Flowers
and Bro Flowers are fairly
effective. If you are low on
these items, feel free to simply
jump on his head to wear his
health down. The Shroobsworths
are moderately fast, so they
will attack you after you hit
him with Mario.

The Shroobsworths have some
nasty attacks, but the worst of
them all is the attack where he
tries to hit you with a rock.
You will see either the
Shroobsworth or the Baby Shroob
on his back pull out a rock when
he decides to use his attack. To
dodge this attack, you have to
whack the rock away from you
with the Brothers hammers. To
tell which Brother the
Shroobsworth is aiming for, find
out which Shroob hits the
boulder. If the old Shroobsworth
hits the rock, it will aim for
Luigi, but if the Baby on his
back hits it, it will go for
Mario. Continue to deflect the
rock as the Shroobs continue to
hit it back to you, and it will
finally damage them after you
deflect it three or four times
(kind of like ping-pong).

Another attack the Shroobsworth
has involves throwing the Babies
high in the air and performing
one of two attacks. When the
Baby gets thrown into the air,
look at him to see if he stays
in the middle of the upper
screen, or if he flies
completely out of view. If the
Intern hovers in the middle of
the screen, he will shoot a few
lasers at you as the
Shroobsworth just watches you.
To dodge these lasers, make the
target Brother jump when the
laser just enters the bottom
screen (as they move fairly
quickly). If the Intern shoots
the laser as he stands right
side up, the laser will aim for
Mario. However, the laser will
aim for Luigi if the Intern is
upside down as he shoots the
laser. If the Intern is thrown
up and above the top screen,
look at the Shroobsworth, and he
will quickly try to hit Both
Brothers with his cane. Do dodge
this, jump right when he stands
in front of Mario, and quickly
make Luigi jump after he moves
in front of him (the
Shroobsworth will attack Mario
first).

Continue to dodge these attacks
from the Shroobsworth, and he
will eventually die leaving you
only the Intern to worry about.
The Intern cannot attack you on
his own, but he is very
dangerous because he can feed a
1-Up Super to his dead
grandfather after three turns!
This means that you have to kill
him as quickly as possible. To
kill him off, use strong attacks
like Red Shells, Pocket Chomps
or even Copy Flowers (don't use
too many of these items as they
will help you in the final
battle.

If you were quick enough, you
will kill the intern causing the
battle to end giving you
victory.

Possible Items Obtained: Copy
Flower, Supreme Slacks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have beaten both of
the enemies in this room, feel
free to get the
*BEAN* in the middle of the
 room, and the 3 Ice Flowers in
 the '?' block to
your left. After getting all of
these goodies, walk through the
door to your right to enter the
library. Here, you will notice
that there are many
Shroobsworths and Soul Bubbles
flying around this room. So
before you try to continue your
way to the final Boss, kill the
two Shroobsworths on the left
side of the library, and kill
the two Soul Bubbles in the
middle near the long line of
bookcases. You probably have
noticed that the bookcases are
blocking your pathway to the
room to the far right, so you
have to press a switch to get
rid of a case. Before you go for
that switch, hit the '?' block
on the platform at the left of
the room for 3 useful Pocket
Chomps. After getting this item,
walk to the upper left corner,
jump up the steps, and you will
end up on a bookcase with two
'?' blocks hovering over it. Hit
the right block for 2 Ultra
Shrooms, and rapidly hit the
left one for some 10-coin
pieces. Now that you have gotten
all of the items in this room,
walk to the wall in the middle
of the room, and go through the
hole in the wall to get in the
middle of the yellow bridge.

There are two Shroob Saucers
flying above you, so there is no
way to walk across the bridge
until you take them out, and
that is exactly what you are
going to do. Now walk straight
forward into the room with the
huge flight of stairs. Like a
while ago, you have to roll up
the stairs and hit the other
Purple '!' block within the time
limit to open the door at the
top of all the stairs. So throw
the Babies off your back, hit
the Purple '!' block to your
left, and go up the stairs as
you did before, the only thing
that makes this staircase
trickier to go up is the fact
that there are some small
pillars blocking sections of the
ground you find between flight
of stairs. You can easily
overcome these obstacles by
rolling between them. After you
successfully hit the switch, go
through the gate you just
opened, and regroup with the
Babies with the Regroup Block to
your right. Before you save, hit
the '?' block to your right for
3 Super Shrooms, and rapidly hit
another '?' block to your left
for some 10-coin pieces. After
getting these goodies, save with
the Save Block, and step on the
big blue button in the middle of
the room to enter the saucer
residing on top of the castle.


--------------------------------
Minigame: The Saucer battles

This is a Minigame that you
either hate or love, meaning
that it is very easy for some,
and hard for others. Right after
you enter the saucer, watch the
short cut scene with Stuffwell,
and hit the Purple Saucer when
he tells you to (use the Babies
as a boost). After hitting this
block, all four Brothers will
stand separately on the circles
on the ground under different
blocks (the Babies and Luigi
will stand under gray blocks,
while Mario stands under the
Purple Saucer block). Now that
you are ready to control your
ship, listen to Stuffwell to
learn how to control it
properly. To control it,
basically hit the gray blocks to
move the ship up, and hit the
Purple Saucer block to fire your
laser cannon. When you shoot
your cannon, a laser ball will
fire from your saucer in a
straight line, and your saucer
will fall back down to its
starting position. When you hit
the gray blocks to rise the
ship, try to hit them when the
meter is almost full to raise it
the most (if you hit all three
gray blocks when each meter is
full, the saucer will be at the
top of the screen). Continue to
practice with Stuffwell until
you mastered the controls.

Now that you can control the
Saucer, it is time for you to
take out the other Saucers that
patrol the bridge. The first
wave of saucers that will appear
will simply stand in the back of
the screen. Take out both of the
saucers by raising the ship
slightly and shooting to get rid
of the first, and by raising the
ship again (this time, near its
highest point), and shooting to
take out the other saucer. After
getting rid of these two
saucers, four more will appear,
so take those out too. After the
second wave has been taken care
of, another two saucers will
appear, but they will be quickly
moving up and down the screen.
To get them, shoot your lasers
when both saucers meet in the
center right part of the screen
(don't forget to raise your
saucer properly first). The
fourth wave will be the same as
the third, except there will be
four saucers instead of two, so
get rid of them the same way as
you did before. After getting
rid of the fourth wave, you will
know that you completed the
Minigame when the clear screen
appears. So after the saucer
lands, get out of it back to the
castle to continue your quest to
save Princess Peach.
--------------------------------


After you exit the saucer, don't
forget to save with the Save
Block to your left (you don't
want to lose your progress!).
Walk down the large flight of
stairs back to the yellow bridge
which used to be patrolled by
saucers. On the yellow bridge,
take a left turn, and walk left
until you see the intersection.
From here, walk to the building
ahead of you (go straight up),
and continue to walk across the
slant until you see the first
blue pipe. Skip this pipe for
now, and continue walking right
until you see the second blue
pipe. Drop down this pipe, and
hit the Purple '!' block when
you are back at the castle's
front gate foyer. If you want,
you can go back and restock on
items, but remember that all of
the enemies will reappear if you
do. After building the bridge
drop back down the blue pipe you
came from and walk back to the
left pipe you previously skipped
on the second floor of the
castle. This pipe will bring up
to the third floor, where you
will see a giant Princess Shroob
statue if you look on your map.

Now that you have gotten to the
third floor, hit both '?' blocks
in the upper left corner for 2
Super Drops and a measly coin,
and save with the save Block to
your right. After saving, walk
into the room to your right, and
you will see a bunch of Split
Blocks scattered on some cliffs.
Before you try to hit these
blocks (they are inaccessible
anyway), whack the '?' block in
the lower left corner, and exit
this room through the door
behind you. There is nothing you
can do here for now except for
getting a pair of beans and
hitting a few buttons (get the
beans first). So get the first
*BEAN* in the X marker hidden
behind the pillar on the left
side, and get the other *BEAN*
by digging through another X
marker behind the pillar on the
right side. After getting these
beans, walk up to the pink cliff
with the red button near the two
doors, and use the Spinning
Babies technique to get on top
of the cliff. Now simply hit the
red button with your hammer to
raise the second platform in the
middle of the room up. Now that
the platform is raised, you can
access the Purple '!' Block that
you couldn't get before. To hit
the block, take control of the
Big Brothers (leave the Babies
on the cliff for now), jump onto
the first tall platform at the
far right, and Spin Jump your
way across the platforms to get
under the Purple '!' block on
the left cliff. Hit the block
when you land, and a small
platform will rise from the
cliff giving the Babies access
to another red button. Get the
Babies on the small cliff, hit
this red button, and watch as
the large blue cliff in the
previous room lowers down giving
you access to a set of Split
Blocks. Get back in this room,
throw the Babies on this cliff,
and align yourselves under the
blocks. Before you hit these
blocks, get the Big Brothers
under the two Split Blocks on
the ground. Now hit all four
Split Blocks using the Babies
and then the Big Brothers, and a
small gate on the front of the
statue will open up. Walk
through this gate to watch
another cut scene.

After watching this cut scene,
Stuffwell will show you a blue
pipe to your far left. Before
you jump down this pipe, there
are quite a few '?' blocks that
contain useful items. The three
'?' blocks to your right contain
a 20 coin piece, 2 Mushrooms,
and a few coins (you have to hit
the lowermost one rapidly for
them). After getting these lousy
items, walk to the lower left
corner where you will see more
'?' blocks, and hit them both to
get 2 Mix Flowers, and a 10-coin
piece. Now that you have gotten
all of the items here, drop down
the blue pipe to get all the way
down to the castle sewers (the
Chomp put you here by switching
the pipe's path). Down here,
save with the Save Block to your
left, and walk to the room to
your left to get to another blue
pipe with a trio of '?' blocks
surrounding it. These blocks
contain some more lousy items,
so hit all three to get a
Mushroom, a 1-Up Super, and a
single coin. After hitting all
of these blocks, drop down the
blue pipe to get back to the
Castle Foyer. Here, hit the
Purple '!' block (like you did
before) and jump back through
the pipe to get back to the
sewers. Back here, continue to
walk right across the sewers,
and stop when you see the
Shroobsworth walking around near
a '?' block. Quickly hit the '?'
block to get 4 Mix Flowers, kill
the Shroobsworth walking around
to your right, and jump on the
gray Shy Guys head to your far
right to engage in a new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------
Enemy: Ghoul Guy
----------------

Difficulty: Moderately Hard
Health: 110
Experience Points: 120

These guys may not be as hard as
the Soul Bubbles or Shroob Rexes
you found in the castle, but
they can get pretty annoying.

The Ghoul Guys only have one
attack, the one where they stand
in front of you, point to both
Brothers, and shoot for one.
This attack may be the same as
the Boo Guys you have seen a
while ago, but the Ghoul Guys
move a lot faster, and can deal
more damage than the Boo Guys.
Like before, the Ghoul Guys will
always attack the Brother that
he points to first. To counter
attack the Ghoul Guys, you have
to jump right when they begin to
split, because they will move at
in incredibly fast speed to hit
you.

Although this ramming attack may
be the only attack the Ghoul
Guys have, they can also
sacrifice themselves to power up
a Shroobsworth. This means that
the Ghoul Guy will disappear
into the Shroobsworth causing
all of his status to greatly
increase! After the Ghoul Guys
have powered up the
Shroobsworths, their attacks
will do a lot more damage
(around double of their normal
attack power). Unfortunately,
the Ghoul Guys have powered up
the Intern as well making him
harder to kill before he revives
his grandfather.

Whenever you see a few Ghoul
Guys paired up with a
Shroobsworth, always attack the
Shroobsworth first, so there
will be a less chance that the
Ghoul Guys will power them up.
Continue to fight these Ghoul
Guys as you usually do, and they
will die giving you a decent
amount of Experience Points.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Now that you have cleared this
area of enemies, walk straight
right, and hit the '?' block to
get 2 Pocket Chomps. After
getting this item, walk to the
upper left corner where a yellow
gear resides inside the wall.
Throw the Babies off your back,
and squash the Babies to turn
them into cakes. Quickly take
control of the Babies, and jump
into the third hole to your
right (the other two are too
hard for you to reach). When you
get the squashed Babies on the
first fan, continue to float
left across two more fans until
you get on the fourth fan at the
far left side of the cave. Now
turn up the fan's power by
spinning the yellow gear,
quickly take control of the
Babies, and hover right when you
see the fan on the second floor
(not the fan at the very top.
When you get here, continue to
hover right, and you will
eventually land on a platform
with an L block and a '?' block.
Hit the L block for a set of
Space Trousers (one of the best
in the game!), and rapidly hit
the '?' block to get some
10-coin pieces. After you have
gotten all of these items, drop
back down to the first floor of
the cave, and get back with the
Big Brothers through one of the
three doors. Now take control of
the Big Brothers, squash the
Babies, and get the Babies back
to the fan at the far left side.
After you powered up the fan
with the Big Brothers, navigate
the Babies across the set of
fans at the third floor (the
ones that you previously
skipped). When you land on the
ground, continue to walk right,
and jump up the yellow
trampoline to get onto the upper
cliff outside the cave near a
red button. Whack the red button
with your hammer, and a set of
stairs will form to your right
allowing the Big Brothers to get
on the cliff with the Babies. So
get the Big Brothers back with
the Babies, rapidly hit the '?'
block you will see on your way
for a few coins, and continue
your quest to save the Princess
through the door to your left.

In this area, you will see
another one of those twisters
over a spiked pit meaning only
one thing: the Babies will be
floating down a huge pit again.
Throw the Babies off your backs,
and spin them into the twister
to your left to start floating
down the pit. As you fall,
immediately hover to your far
right to land on a cliff with
two '?' blocks (the coins are
not really that important now,
as you can always get them
later). Hit the first block to
get 3 Red Shells, and rapidly
hit the other to get some
10-coin pieces. After getting
these items from the '?' blocks,
simply drop off the platform,
and get to the next area by
walking through the gate to your
left.

This area is very dangerous for
the Babies as there are a few
tough enemies here. To avoid
this, hit the Purple '!' block
in the lower right corner of the
area, and get the Big Brothers
back with the Babies by walking
across the bridge that just
retracted down. Now that you are
in a group of four once again,
kill both of the Shroobsworths
to your left, and throw the
Babies into the tree trunk in
the upper left corner. Now take
control of the Big Brothers,
roll them into the yellow cannon
to your right, and hit the red
button with the Babies to fire
the Big Brothers across the area
to the platform at the far left
(ignore the two Split Blocks for
now). When you land on the
ground, hit the '?' block near
you to get 2 Mix Flowers, and
walk to the upper left corner
dodging the Shroobsworth and Boo
Guy for now. Hit the Regroup
Block to get back with the
Babies, and then fight the
enemies (you want to give the
Babies some Experience Points
too). After you have killed both
enemies, walk to the bridge near
the spiked pit directly to your
right, throw the Babies off your
backs (make sure they don't hit
the spikes), and use the
Spinning Babies technique to get
them across the spiked pit to
the ground to your right. To get
across the spiked pit properly,
make sure you don't touch the
retracted bridge as you soar
across the spiked pit. When you
land on the other side, stand
underneath the other two Split
Blocks, take control of the Big
Brothers and hit the first two
Spilt Blocks on their side.
After hitting these Split
Blocks, hit the other two with
the Babies, and the two other
bridges will open up allowing
you to walk across them getting
missed items. Now that you have
opened up all of the bridges,
get the Big Brothers back with
the Babies, and hit the '?'
block on the second bridge to
your right to get 2 Ultra
Shrooms. After getting this
useful item, walk back to the
middle platform, and jump on the
big blue button to get into the
next area with a single pipe. In
here, simply drop down this pipe
to get to the second part of the
Shroob Castle Sewers.

Now save with the Save Block in
the upper left corner, and get
to the next area by walking
along the pathway to your right.
Kind of like the Castle Sewers
in present time, this series of
sewers are long, confusing, and
fairly difficult to navigate
through. In this area, hit the
'?' block in the middle of the
pipes to get a lousy coin, throw
the Babies off your backs, and
get them inside the pipes
through the left opening. Inside
the pipes, rapidly hit the M
block straight ahead of you to
get some 20 coin pieces, and
continue to walk through the
pipes to your right. You will
soon come across a Bom-omb, so
jump on his head to start up a
new battle.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
---------------------
Enemy: Lethal Bom-omb
---------------------

Difficulty: Moderate
Health: 60
Experience Points: 70


Lethal Bom-ombs are nothing more
than suicide bombers, literally.
These annoying pests have only
one attack, and that is to try
to explode on your head almost
instantly killing you.
Fortunately, you can counter
attack the Bom-ombs by hammering
them away as they quickly move
side to side in front of both
Baby Brothers. If you
successfully hammer away the
Bom-ombs, they will fall back
and self destruct, but if you
don't hit them away, you die.

This is a win or lose situation,
so you may want to avoid Bom-
ombs if you don't have good
hammering skills. Sadly, the
Raging Bom-ombs are placed so it
is very difficult for you to
dodge them.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After killing (or getting killed
by) the suicide bombers,
continue to walk through the
pipes, and go up when you reach
the first intersection. When you
see the L block, rapidly hit it
to get some more 20 coin pieces,
and kill another Lethal Bob-omb
further ahead of you in the
pipes. After killing this
bugger, take another turn
leading into the first upper
pipe to get to an M block, and
rapidly hit to get some 20 coin
pieces. When you get all of
these coins, walk into the other
upper pipe with an L block, and
rapidly hit it to get a pair of
Rocket Jeans. The Rocket Jeans
are one of the best in the game,
so equip it to the weaker Baby.
Now that you have equipped the
Rocket Jeans, walk back down to
the main pipe, and continue to
walk right to fight yet another
Lethal Bomb-omb. There is
another Lethal Bomb-omb ahead of
you, so make sure you heal up
before you continue along the
main pipe. After killing the
Lethal Bomb-omb near the M
block, rapidly hit this block to
get some more 20 coin pieces
(getting too much for you?).
There is an L block further down
with some more 20 coin pieces,
so get those after finishing off
the M block (ignore the pathway
to your left as you walk down).
When you have finished
navigating through the pipes,
dig through the metal grate, and
you will end up in another area
not far from the Big Brothers
(check the map).

In this area, ignore the '?'
block near you for now, and hit
the Purple '!' block to your far
left to bring down the bridge
separating the Big Brothers and
the Little Tykes. Now get back
with the Baby Brothers, and hit
the '?' block you previously
skipped to get a 10-coin piece.
After getting this coin, jump up
to the pipe to your right, and
hit the L and the '?' blocks to
get 2 Refreshing Herbs, and a
Lucky Badge A (fairly useful).
Finally, you have gotten all of
the hidden items in this section
of the pipes! Give yourself a
pat on the back, and walk back
up the bridge to get back to the
area where you started.

Instead of going into the pipes
like you did before, walk on top
of the pipes heading right, and
you will end up in the section
to your right. This area is one
of four that you will use to
kill the chain Chomp that
previously hindered your
progress through the game. There
is nothing to do here for now
except for getting the *BEAN* in
the yellow platform. After
getting this bean, walk along
the pipe in the upper right
corner to get to the second of
four special areas. Like before,
get the *BEAN* in the yellow
platform, and repeat this
process for the last two special
areas (getting the other two
beans [*BEAN* *BEAN*]). Now that
you have gotten all four beans,
get back to the first special
area, and walk to the section
right below you by walking along
the right pipe leading down (NOT
leading to your right). In here,
walk down until you see the two
'?' blocks, and hit the first to
get 2 Green Peppers. Rapidly hit
the second one to get some 20
coin pieces, and get back to the
first special area again. Now
walk right, and you will get to
a long area with a huge spiked
pit to your right.

Ignore the spiked pit for now
(as there is no way to cross
it), but take the pathway down
to get to a Purple '!' block on
a yellow platform. Use the
Babies as a boost to hit the
block, walk across the bridge to
your right, and you will see the
annoying Chain Chomp eat up the
block and hiding in the pipes on
your map. Because the Chain
Chomp has greatly hindered your
quest, it is time to punish him
by killing him. You will also
notice that three Star Blocks
will appear on those special
areas as I described before (a
meter will; also tell you the
Chomp's health). Now walk all
the way back to the special
areas, and hit the first Star
Block to power it up. After
powering up the first Star
Block, walk to the third special
area, hit this Star Block to
fire a laser at the Chain Chomp
dealing some damage (only three
more times). The Chain Chomp
will now get back in the pipes,
and pop out of another one (the
place where he appears is
random). To hit the Chain Chomp,
hit the two correct Star Blocks
by looking at the chart below:


--------------------------------
Location of Chain Chomp ||
Required Star Blocks to hit
--------------------------------
--------------------------------
Middle || Bottom and Top
--------------------------------
Middle Right || Top and Left
--------------------------------
Middle Left || Top and Right
--------------------------------
Right || Bottom and Left
--------------------------------
Left || Bottom and Right
--------------------------------


After you hit the Chain Chomp
two more times, he will produce
four clones of himself to fill
up the other pipes (quickly look
at all four Chain Chomps as they
come out of the pipes!!). If you
looked quickly enough, one of
the Chain Chomps would have been
chomping a lot faster than the
other four as they came out of
the pipes. If you did not see
the real Chain Chomp, shoot a
laser at a random chomp to slow
down the four clones. If you use
your peripheral vision, you will
see that one Chain Chomp is
chomping faster than the other
four. When you found out which
Chain Chomp is real, shoot him
with one last laser, and he will
die freeing the Purple '!' block
he previously ate. Now that the
Purple '!' block is back where
it belongs, walk back to it (the
area with the large spiked pit),
and hit the block to cause the
spikes to retract from the
bridge making it safe to walk
on. Walk across the bridge (now
that the spikes are gone), and
jump down the blue pipe to get
back into the second floor of
Shroob's Castle (unfortunately,
all of the enemies have came
back to life).

If you look on your map, you
will notice that you landed in
the back side of the second
floor, meaning you will be able
to activate the two lasers that
were previously inaccessible.
Now walk into the room directly
to your left, and hit the Purple
'!' block to open up the gate
that leads to the middle room of
this floor and to open up a
small hole in the back wall.
Instead of walking to the middle
room, throw the Babies off your
back, and drill through the
small fence in the back wall to
get inside a small cave.

In here, jump up the stair case
near you, but stop when you get
on the second to last step. Now
drill through the tight space
that is blocked by a fence, and
you will land on a platform with
an X marker. Get a *BEAN* from
the platform and walk back up
the stairs and out of the cave.
You will notice that you are
finally on the cliff tops that
you couldn't access before.
Before you go for the two
lasers, you should kill some
enemies and get some useful
items here first. From here,
walk straight across the cliff
heading south, and stop before
you get to the next area (there
should be a small cliff to your
right). Jump to this small
cliff, and hit the '?' block to
get a 10-coin piece. After
getting this coin, jump back to
the cliff heading south, and
walk down to get to the upper
center area. Take a quick right
turn to the cliff heading east
and hammer the crate to destroy
it just for fun (there is a dead
end ahead of this path. After
destroying the crate, walk back
left across the cliff that heads
west, and navigate down the rest
of the cliff on the left wall to
get to the lower center area. In
here, simply continue to walk
down and make a quick left turn
to get to the left long hallway.
Now you have to avoid falling
down at all costs, because if
you do, you will more than
likely die in a battle against a
Soul Bubble or a Rex! Continue
walking across the cliff that
heads north now, take a left
turn when you get to the front,
and kill the Ghoul Guy walking
back and forth along the
pathway. After killing the
annoying Ghoul, walk left to get
to the next area, and continue
on the pathway that is now
heading north again. Hammer the
crate when it gets in your way,
and walk through the door in the
upper left corner to get to the
area with the first set of Split
Blocks. Although you will not be
hitting the Split Blocks right
now, you will make this room
accessible to the Big Brothers
for future use. Now drop to the
ground to your right, and hit
the red button in the upper left
corner to open up the red gate.
Ignore the Snoozorb below you
for now, and walk to the lower
left corner (to the right of the
gate) to get under a pair of '?'
blocks. Hit these blocks to get
3 Red Shells and an Ultra Drop,
and drill through the fence in
the back wall to get into
another cave.

This cave is very similar to the
first, so get another *BEAN*
from the X marker by drilling
through the tight space again,
and start to walk right when you
get back on the cliff tops.
Before you get back to the room
to your south, walk across the
cliff to your right, and hit the
'?' block at the dead end to get
a 20 coin piece. After getting
this coin, walk back to the area
to your south. Back in this
room, walk straight down the
cliff below you to get to
another area with a slanted
cliff to your right. Walk up the
slanted cliff, to the hidden
ledge with three blocks, and hit
the two '?' blocks to get 2
Green Peppers and 2 Ultra
Mushrooms. Rapidly hit the L
block to your left to get some
20 coin pieces, and walk back
down to the lower cliffs after
you hit all of the blocks. Now
kill the Ghoul Guy to your left,
and walk down to the next cliff
to get to the lower left room
(the one without the laser).
Simply continue to follow the
cliff heading south to get to
the next room. This room has
many item blocks, so drop to the
ground to your left (the one
with the staircase heading to
the cliffs), and hit the '?'
block on the left to get 3 Red
Shells, and the L block to your
right to get 2 1-Up Supers.
Rapidly hit the middle '?' block
to get some 10-coin pieces, and
jump back to the cliff using the
staircase provided. Back on the
cliffs, walk to the lower left
corner with the L block, and
rapidly hit it to get some 20
coin pieces. After getting these
coins, walk back to the upper
part of the cliffs (stay in the
same room), and walk right to
fight another Ghoul Guy. When
you are finished killing the
Ghoul Guy (and the
Shroobsworth), continue to walk
across the cliffs to your right,
and you will get into the next
room. In here, you simply have
to continue walking across the
path breaking the crate on your
way to get into the cliff tops
in the garden.

The garden is just as dangerous
as the room with the Soul
Bubbles, so avoid falling down
at all costs again. Continue to
walk along the cliff tops that
lead up then right, kill both of
the Ghoul Guys, and walk into
the hole in the wall ahead of
you to get into a secret cave.
This cave has a large amount of
items and a pair of beans, so it
is very important they you get
here. Start by hitting the '?'
block to your left to get a
measly coin, then jump up to the
first step to get the *BEAN*
inside the X marker. Continue to
jump up the steps making sure
you hit the '?' block for a
10-coin piece and you get
another
*BEAN* from the fourth step, and
 hit the third '?' block for a
 20 coin piece.
After getting all of the goodies
on the steps, jump to the small
cliff all the way to your right,
and hit the '?' blocks to get 3
Super Mushrooms and 2 Mushrooms.
After getting these Mushrooms,
hit the M block to get a pair of
Space Trousers, and equip it to
the other Brother if he already
does not have the Supreme
Slacks. Now that you have gotten
all of the goodies in this cave,
walk all the way back left, and
exit the cave to get back on the
cliff tops.

Back here, continue to walk down
as you walk along the pathway,
and you will soon find yourself
in the other part of the garden
with the laser in the lower
right room. In this room, there
is really nothing to do here
besides killing the Ghoul Guy on
the pathway, and smashing the
crate to your right. So to this
as you continue walking along
the pathway, and go through the
opening in front of you after
you pass the crate to get to the
room ahead of you. This room is
very small, so navigating
through the cliffs will be very
easy. Before you walk into the
next room through the gate in
the upper right corner, walk all
the way around the perimeter of
the room to get back to the
previous area on the far right
side. Back here, walk across the
rest of the cliff top until you
see the M block, so hit it to
get 2 Max Mushrooms. Now that
you have gotten the two
Mushrooms here, get back to the
small room ahead of you, and
continue to the next room by
walking through the opening you
previously skipped. Like a while
ago, this room has a slanted
cliff (to your left this time)
with a lot of item boxes at the
top. So continue to walk along
the cliff tops, kill the Ghoul
Guy, and walk up the slanted
part of the cliff to get near
two '?' blocks and an M block.
hit the two '?' blocks to get 2
Refreshing Herbs and 2 Red
Peppers, and rapidly hit the M
block to your far right to get
some 20 coin pieces. After
getting these items, walk back
down to the normal cliffs, and
go through another opening in
the wall to get to the area with
the laser pointing diagonally
down. Now continue to walk along
the cliff tops heading left
ignoring the opening for now and
smashing the crate in your way.
When you get to the next area
directly to your left, simply
kill the ghoul Guy here, and get
back to the room you just came
out of from (as it leads to the
other laser needed to proceed
through the game). To get to the
room with this laser, walk
through the opening you
previously skipped (in the upper
right corner).

Before you actually position
yourselves under the Split
Blocks, you can get an easy 10
coins by hitting the '?' block
in the upper left corner of the
cliffs. Now jump back to the
ground, position yourselves
under the Split Blocks, and take
control of the Big Brothers
(finally). As the Big Brothers,
you have to get to the upper
left room with the laser facing
directly right (you can do this
by heading two rooms down and
continuing three rooms up). Be
careful as you enter this room
as there is a Snoozorb waiting
to attack you! After killing the
Snoozorb, hit the two Split
Blocks in the middle of the
room, and get the Babies to hit
the other two Split Blocks
within the time limit to shoot
out the laser. This laser will
destroy the casing of the blue
pipe back in the middle upper
room allowing you to jump
through it. Now that you have
opened up the blue pipe, take
control of the Big Brothers,
roll all the way back to the
upper center room, and hit the
Regroup Block to get the Babies
back where you are. As a group
of four once again, jump down
the blue pipe to get to the
right part of the third floor of
the castle (all this trouble to
switch sides...).

The second you enter this place,
immediately save with the Save
Block to your right, heal up
your characters, and walk into
the enemy infested room to your
left. There are a lot of goodies
here, buy you must kill off the
two Shroobsworths to your left
and the Ghoul Guy in the lower
part of the area before you even
think of getting them. After you
kill all of these enemies, hit
the two '?' blocks in the lower
part of the room to get 2 Pocket
Chomps and 2 Mix Flowers, and
proceed to get all three beans
scattered around here. The first
*BEAN* is at the right tip, the
second *BEAN* is at the left
tip, and the third and final
*BEAN* is at the southern tip of
the room. After you have gotten
all of the beans here, walk into
the room directly to your left
to get to the right part of the
library. In here, kill another
ghoul Guy roaming around near
the book shelves, and hit the
Purple '!' block in the lower
right corner to bring down the
book case directly to your left.
Now that the bookcase is down,
you can now use the Babies to
access the item blocks on the
bookcases that you couldn't have
reached before. To get there,
throw the Babies off your backs
making sure they land on the
lowered bookcase, and use the
Spinning Babies technique to get
them onto the shelf right in
front of you. Now that you are
actually on the bookshelves, hit
the '?' block right above you to
get a 1-Up Super, and follow the
bookshelves to get to the
platform in the upper right
corner with two more item
blocks. Hit both blocks to get 3
Red and Green Peppers (very
useful for the final battle),
drop back to the ground to your
right, get back with the Big
Brothers, and walk back into the
room that was previously
infested with Shroobsworths and
a Ghoul Guy. This time, walk
onto the bridge straight ahead
of you, and hit the '?' block
above the bridge to get 3
Refreshing Herbs. After getting
these Herbs, continue to walk
straight ahead into the next
room where you will see a blue
pipe near some more '?' blocks.
Before you jump down this pipe,
hit the '?' blocks to get 5
Mushrooms and 4 Super Mushrooms,
and finally jump down the pipe
to get to the uppermost floor
where a Princess Shroob resides.
On this floor, hit the two '?'
blocks to your left to get 3
Green Shells and 3 Bro Flowers,
and save with the Save Block to
avoid losing your progress.

Now walk into the room directly
to your left, and use the Babies
to hit the red button that will
open up the gate. Don't go
through the gate (as it will
only lead you back to the second
floor), but hit the M block
directly right of the gate you
just opened to get 2 1-Up Supers
instead. After getting these
goodies, walk back to the room
to your right, and start to jump
up the cliffs to the north
hitting the '?' blocks on your
way (the two '?' blocks will
contain 3 Cannonballers and 3
Copy Flowers). When you get to
the next area, walk up the very
long slant to your left, but
stop when you get to the top.
Instead of continuing to the
entrance of the statue right
now, throw the Babies off your
backs, and Spin Jump them right
to get them to land on a
hovering platform with six '?'
blocks. Hit all six of these
blocks to get 3 Mix Flowers, 3
Trampolines, 3 Pocket Chomps, 3
Red Shells, 3 Copy Flowers, and
finally 3 Ice Flowers. After
getting all of these attack
items, jump back to the slope to
your left, get back with the Big
Brothers, and continue to the
entrance of the statue directly
to your left. Step on the blue
button here, and the four
Brothers will automatically walk
inside the statue.

There are no enemies here, but a
major Boss Battle awaits. So
save with the Save Block to your
right, and jump down the blue
pipe to your right to get back
to the castle's foyer. In here,
hit the Purple '!' block to
build the final bridge, and jump
back into the blue pipe to get
back inside the statue (it is
unnecessary to go back to buy
items, as you will have the
opportunity to do that later).
Now walk to the next section of
the statue by walking through
the doorway ahead of you. This
room has nothing but a long
flight of stairs and a few item
boxes containing useful items to
help you with the final battle.
So walk up the stairs taking a
left turn every time you get to
an intersection, and hit the '?'
block on the second flight of
stairs to get 4 Super Mushrooms.
If you want to, you can get to
this exact location on the right
flight of stairs to get 4
Mushrooms. After getting all of
the items in this room, walk to
the top of the stairs, and hit
the M block to the right of the
door to get 4 Ultra Mushrooms.
Likewise, hit the L block to the
left of the door to get 3 Max
Mushrooms (catching a trend
here?). Now that you have gotten
the wide variety of Mushrooms in
this room, walk through the
doorway in front of you to get
to the next room. When you enter
this room, watch the short cut
scene, and hit the M block to
your right to get 4 Super Drops.
There is an L block to your left
containing 5 Mushroom Drops, so
get these, and walk up the long
hallway up the small flight of
stairs until Stuffwell tells you
to save. Before you save, hit
the L block to your left to get
3 Ultra Drops, and hit the Heart
Block (the only Heart Block in
the game besides the one in
Peaches Castle) to heal up all
of your characters. Now hit the
Save Block to save your
progress, and jump on the blue
button in front of you to get to
the final room.

There is a long cut scene when
you enter this room, so watch
it, and walk straight left when
it ends. Go into the room to
your left, and save with the
Save Block in here to save your
progress once again. Note that
Stuffwell will offer to bring
you back in time if you need to
buy anything, so if you are
missing any attack items that
will be vital in the final
battle, go back in time, and buy
what you need. Now that you have
saved (or have gotten the
necessary items for the upcoming
battle), walk up the long flight
of stairs, and jump on the blue
button to get into the saucer
again.


--------------------------------
Minigame: The Final Saucer
battle

This battle will probably be
even more difficult than the
final Boss battle if you have
bad coordination, but is really
shouldn't cause you too much
trouble. Your goal is to hit
Princess Shroob's mothership
four times to destroy it. The
only catch is that you have to
damage the mother ship by
hitting her by the small saucers
floating around her. Another
annoying factor is that you have
health, meaning if you get hit
four times, you will die.

Start this ship battle by
hitting the saucer block in the
back of the ship, and raising
your own ship to the middle as
fast as you can. Now you will
see the mother ship deploy three
more small saucers to try to
intimidate you. If you want to
damage the mothership, wait
until she stops at one stop, get
to her height, and hit the
little saucers. The best way to
hit the saucers it to wait until
they briefly stop in one spot,
and to shoot them so they hit
the mothership. This may sound
easy, but it is a lot harder
because the small saucers will
fly towards you after about 10
seconds. If this happens, your
best defense is to shoot blindly
to go back to the ground, and to
shoot any saucers at the bottom.

If you want to go for a quick
kill, follow the mothership as
fast as you can, and immediately
shoot when a saucer pops out.
Continue to attack the
mothership in this way (be
careful as the small saucers
move faster as the mothership
loses health), and the
mothership will eventually crash
down into the castle after four
hits.
--------------------------------


Now that the mothership is down,
get out of the saucer you are,
and walk down the steps until
you see the Save Block. Make
sure you save as you really
don't want to repeat this
Minigame again, and exit this
small room to watch another long
cut scene revealing the final
boss.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Final Boss Battle 1: Princess
Shroob
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Hard Health:
Princess Shroob: 3000 Force
Field ~1000 Experience Points: 0


Princess Shroob may have a low
defense and low health (for a
final battle), but a force field
surrounding her will take any
attack until it gets destroyed.
Because the Princess is
thankfully slow, you will be
able to attack first. Use Red
Peppers for your first move to
power up both Brothers, and
start to chip away the force
field with strong attacks like
Trampolines, Pocket Chomps and
Copy Flowers. You should save
your Mix Flowers because they
will be very useful later when
you fight another Boss (hint,
hint). After you attack the
force field for the first time,
Princess Shroob will attack you.

Whenever Princess Shroob attacks
in her force field, she will get
some robot legs for her force
field (making her very tall),
and stand above one Brother. Now
Princess Shroob will fire some
energy rings straight down to
the target Brother dealing
significant damage. To tell
which Brother she is attacking,
look at the shadow of the robot
legs (if it is on Mario or
Luigi), and make that Brother
jump when each energy ring gets
in the middle of him. After
Princess Shroob finishes
attacking with the energy rings,
she will try to smash you with
the force field. To deflect this
attack, pull out your hammer,
and whack it the second you see
it enter the bottom screen.
Deflecting this attack may be
tricky, but you will soon get
the hang of it. Note that you
may get dizzy if you get smashed
by the force field or trip if
you get hit by an energy ring.
This is Princess Shroob's only
attack when she has her force
field, so you have to learn how
to avoid getting hit by them
successfully.

Continue to attack the force
field, and you will notice that
is changes colors from blue to
green to orange and finally to
red. This indicates that the
force field is getting weaker,
so continue to attack it until
it completely disappears. When
the force field turns into a red
color, eat another set of Red
Peppers, because you want to be
powered up when you face the
Princess out of her force field.
After the force field gets
destroyed, you will see Princess
Shroob get out of her chair and
stand in front of you. This
means that she is now vulnerable
to Red Shells and other attacks.

Because Princess Shroob will
only be out of her force field
for a limited time, you have to
hit her with everything you got.
So make sure you are powered up,
and use Copy Flowers, Red
Shells, or any other attack that
you are good with to deal a lot
of damage (you should be giving
500 points of damage per turn).
After you attack her, Princess
Shroob will attack you with a
great variety of weak, but fast
and frequent attacks.

All of these attacks will
involve laser balls somehow, so
be prepared to dodge them or to
deflect them with your hammer.
Whenever Princess Shroob appears
in front of you, wait until she
throws a laser ball, and make
the target Brother jump when she
throws it. The laser ball will
aim for the Brother Princess
Shroob is right in front of.
Sometimes, Princess Shroob will
be tricky and will fire a huge
wave of laser balls at both
Brothers. To dodge this wave,
make the Brother she is in front
of jump first, and then make the
other Brother jump shortly
after. If you want, you can make
both Brothers jump at the same
time to avoid any confusion. You
will occasionally see Princess
Shroob throw a laser ball at you
while she hovers in the sky. If
this is the case, look at the
hand she throws the laser with,
and hammer the laser ball away
with the Baby's hammer. If
Princess Shroob uses her right
hand (left hand for your side),
the laser will aim for Luigi,
but if she uses her left hand
(right for your side), she will
shoot for Mario. If you
successfully deflected Princess
Shroob's attack, she will get
hit by the laser ball dealing
around 25 points of damage. The
last type of attack Princess
Shroob can use in this series is
her special laser ball that will
rotate around you continuously
until it either gets stopped or
hits a Brother. At the laser
spins around, it will
alternately aim for Mario then
Luigi. To stop this attack,
simply jump on the laser ball
(you want to do this quickly as
the laser ball moves faster
every turn).

After you dodge this series of
attacks, continue to attack her
with strong attacks, and she
will eventually get another
force field to surround her.
Note that Princess Shroob
attacks more frequently as you
damage her, so watch out for her
spider attack as it may repeat
two or three times in a row. If
you damage her enough, she may
even shoot different laser balls
at you for up to 20 times! (when
she does not have her force
field). You will know when
Princess Shroob is angry when
you see a red aura surround her
9this happens when she has less
than 100 HP left). Continue to
attack her with your best
attacks and dodge her, and she
will eventually die leaving you
only one more Boss to deal with
(when the REAL fight starts).

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Hopefully you still have a lot
of Mushrooms and Bro Items with
you, because you are about to be
thrown in another tough battle!
Watch another cut scene, and you
will be fighting against
Princess Shroob's older sister.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Final Boss Battle 2: Princess
Shroob (older)
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Very Hard Health:
First Form: 3000 Second Form:
3000 Foot: 500 Crown: 350 Arms:
250 Experience Points: 0


This Boss is tough, and when I
mean tough, she is a pain in the
butt. Because you are hopefully
faster than her, you will be
able to attack first. Now
immediately power up yourselves
with Red Peppers, and start to
attack her with powerful items
like you did to the younger
Princess. Copy Flowers, Pocket
Chomps and Red Shells are the
best if you know how to use
them. You should still hold on
to your Mix Flowers, as you will
desperately need them when you
fight the Bosses second form.
After attacking, prepare
yourselves for her attacks that
will chip away lots of health
from you.

Before she actually attacks you,
two or three Saucers will fly in
the air preparing to assist the
Princess in attacking you. Now
Princess Peach will help you by
instructing you to shoot some
yellow stars into the air to
destroy some of the Saucers. So
carefully time yourself so you
hammer the star when the target
aims for one or more saucer. It
may be difficult at first (I
have seen many yellow stars fly
between three saucers without
touching them), but you should
get the hang of it shortly.
Sometimes if you are lucky, the
saucers you have destroyed will
contain an attack item that will
assist you in battle (I have
seen Smash Eggs come out most
often). After you have destroyed
some saucers (or missed all of
them), the remaining saucers
will attack you depending on how
many saucers you have destroyed
(not all of them will attack you
at once). Each attack will
differ depending on how many
saucers fly towards Princess
Shroob to assist her:


One Saucer flies up:

If you see one saucer fly up,
you don't have to get too
worried as she will not attack
you yet. The bad part is that
the single saucer will feed
Princess Shroob a green drink
replenishing around 100 points
of health. 100 HP may not be
much, but it will add up if the
saucers continuously feed her
these drinks. After Princess
Shroob gets back some of her
health, she will probably attack
you again with two or three more
saucers.

There is an attack that Princess
Shroob can use against you with
one Saucer, but is comes fairly
rarely although it can horribly
damage you. You will see
Princess Shroob summon a Chain
Chomp, and the saucer will
instruct it to circle around
Both Brothers until stopped. To
stop the Chain Chomp, you must
jump on his head as quickly as
you can. The Chain Chomp can
hurt you fairly badly even if
you get hit once, and you might
get poisoned.


Two Saucers fly up:

Princess Shroob's two saucer
attack is arguably her most
annoying and damaging attack in
her first form. If you want to
dodge her upcoming attacks, you
have to have good timing skills
and the ability to jump quickly.
Now Princess Shroob will jump on
both Saucers, she will hover
over the right side of the
battle field, and will start to
quickly throw energy balls at
you. Note that these balls move
so quickly, that you cannot use
the easy way out and consciously
make both Brothers Jump at the
same time. To tell which Brother
each energy ball is flying to
look at which hand she uses to
throw the ball (if she uses her
left hand, she will aim for
Luigi and visa versa). After the
short series of laser balls,
Princess Shroob will fly all the
way to the back of the battle
field (to the Brothers' left),
and will throw two or three
giant energy balls at you. To
dodge this attack, make both
Brothers Jump at the same time
if she is in the middle of the
bottom screen, but DO NOT jump
if she hovers directly below the
top screen. After you dodge
these energy balls, the two
Saucers will explode causing her
to fly back to the battle field,
but don't let your guard down
yet! When she lands on the
ground, a shock wave will try to
hit you. Dodge this shock wave
by jumping about a split second
after it appears. If you get hit
by the shock wave, you might
trip (which is bad as you cannot
use Bro items if this happens).


Three Saucers fly up:

When the three saucers fly up,
you will see them leave the top
screen, and come back with a
giant blue boulder. Now the
saucers will drop the boulder
into Princess Shroob's hands,
and she will slowly walk towards
one Brother. When she gets right
in front of her, hammer her as
quickly as you can to deal some
damage and to eventually stop
her from smashing your head with
the boulder. Note that it can
take more than five whacks of
the hammer before she flies
back, so hammer quickly!


Now that you have successfully
avoided or counter attack
Princess Shroob's saucer
attacks, you now have to dodge a
quick charging attack that can
really hurt you. This charging
attack is preformed randomly,
but it usually happens after one
or three saucers attack you, but
not with two. Princess Shroob
might even be very tricky and
try to charge at you before she
attacks you with the saucers. To
counter attack this attack, pull
out your hammers, and look at
her before she charges at you.
If her hand does not move before
she charges at you, whack your
hammers right before she hits
you after she charges. On the
other hand, if you see her hand
wave up before she charges at
you, don't hammer after she
charges at there will be a one
second delay before she actually
hits you (she will stop in front
of you, wait one second, and
then hit you). Be very careful,
Princess Shroob will probably
bounce back after you hit her
for the first time, so be
prepared to hammer her again
four or five more times. After
you counter attacked this
charging attack, it will be your
turn to hit her.

When attacking, stay with the
same plan and continue to
bombard her with Copy Flower or
any other Bro Item that you are
very good with. Continue to use
the stars to take out the
saucers, and dodge the stacks
performed by her. Princess
Shroob is very unpredictable
when she attacks you, so
remember to keep your guard up!
As you continue to damage
Princess Shroob, she will summon
more saucers every turn, and
will charge at you more often.
After you hit her for 3000
damage, Princess Shroob will
grow larger revealing her second
and more powerful form.



The second form of Princess
Shroob is very powerful and can
easily kill you in one shot.
Thankfully, Princess Shroob is
slow, so you will be able to
deal some damage before she can
attack you.

Your best weapon against this
beefed up Princess are Mix
Flowers. So forget about
powering up with Red Peppers,
and use two Mix Flowers to deal
great damage against her two
tentacles and her foot. You will
notice that you will only deal 1
point of damage Princess
Shroob's body, but you shouldn't
worry about it for now as you
must focus on her other body
parts. If you are powerful
enough, you will probably
destroy all three of her limbs,
which is a very good sign. If
any limbs still remain, prepare
yourself to dodge some nasty
attacks.


Tentacle attack:

There are three different
attacks the Princess can use
with her tentacles. For one of
the attacks, Princess Shroob
will slowly reach for both
Brothers with her tentacles. If
you don't want to get thrown
around, you must hammer the
tentacles away from you right
before they hit you. Note that
Princess Shroob might continue
to attempt to grab you with her
tentacles after you hammered
them away the first time, so
don't keep your guard down!

The other attack is easier to
dodge, but a bit harder to
detect. For this attack,
Princess Shroob will try to poke
you with both of her tentacles
(one at a time though). To tell
when she will poke you, look at
her tentacles and you will
notice one of them brightly
shine. To dodge this attack,
quickly jump about a split
second after the tentacles shine
(at they shoot at you like a
bullet). If Princess Shroob
attacks you with the right
tentacle, she will aim for
Luigi, and if she attacks her
with her left tentacle, she will
aim for Mario. After dodging
these attacks, prepare yourself
for her next attack (probably
with her foot).

The last and most dangerous
attack that Princess Shroob has
in store for you can be very
devastating, but can only be
used if her foot is gone for the
time being. You will see
Princess Shroob spit out a blue
energy ball into the sky, and
she will throw red and green
energy balls to power it up with
her tentacles. Quickly make a
rough estimate of how many red
and green energy balls were
thrown at the blue energy ball
as it will tell you which
Brother it will aim for. If more
red energy balls were thrown at
the blue one, the giant blue
energy ball will go for Luigi
and the same goes for green
energy balls and Mario (yes, it
reverses). To whack away the
energy ball, pull out your
hammer, and hit the ball when it
gets about one centimeter above
the target Brother. If the
energy ball hits you, you can
receive so much damage that you
will probably die (use a 1-Up
Super if this happens).


Foot attack:

This attack may not last a long
time, but it is difficult to
dodge, and can deal a lot of
damage to you. You will see her
feet spring out like a fan (the
number will randomly change from
2 to 4), and Princess Shroob
will try to trip you by rapidly
spinning her feet. The best way
to dodge this attack is to make
each Brother jump separately to
dodge the tentacles. Before you
actually jump, look at the
direction the feet spin so you
don't make any mistakes.


Poison Gas attack:

You will instantly notice when
Princess Shroob will attack you
with poison gas because she will
walk backwards and will take a
deep breath. To dodge this
attack, your best bet is to jump
over the poison gas, but jumping
on it works. The reason why
jumping over the poison gas is
preferred over stepping on it is
because if you step on it, it
will take longer for you to get
back on the ground giving you
less time to dodge the next
poison gas cloud. Getting hit by
these clouds can result in
poisoning, so make sure you have
some Refreshing Herbs. After you
dodge around four poison clouds,
Princess Shroob will move on to
her next attack.


Continue to dodge these attacks
using the methods above, and the
tentacles and the foot will
eventually disappear exposing
her crown for damage. If you
were wondering when Princess
Shroob was receiving only 1
point of damage previously, it
was because her Crown was
protecting her. This means that
you have to damage and hopefully
destroy her crown with Copy
Flowers or Pocket Chomps (Red
Shells are useless at this
point).

After you damage her Crown for
the first time, Princess Shroob
will send out four saucers to
the sky (into the upper screen),
and she will fire an energy ball
at all of them. Look at the
order in which the energy ball
damages each saucer and what
kind of damage results on them
(catching on fire or getting
short circuited). The saucers
will now fall on you in the
order they will hit. The saucers
on fire will fall on Mario while
the saucers that got short
circuited will fall to Luigi (if
you played Super Saga, you
should get the pun by now). To
whack the saucers away from you,
pull out your hammers, and whack
the saucers right when the tip
touches the head of the target
Brother. From what I have seen,
if you mess up hitting the first
saucer away from you, you will
usually mess up on all the
others and visa versa. The
saucers you whack away from you
will hit Princess Shroob's body
dealing significant damage (if
you already destroyed the
crown).

Continue to attack Princess
Shroob using the tips above, and
she will get angrier as you
progress. She will start to
summon five or even six suicide
saucers to attack you, and she
will spin into you with four
feet more often. After you deal
3000 damage to her body,
Princess Shroob will die. Great
Job!! You beat the hardest Boss
in the game!

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


After beating Princess Shroob,
watch this very long cut scene,
and you will end up back in
Peaches Castle in present time
not that the future has been
saved.





================================
      Peaches Castle (present)
      [p23]
================================

After you are done watching the
cut scene, walk into the room
with the Save Block right in
front of you (you will begin in
the garden), and save to save
your progress. There is only one
more battle coming up, but it
will be very easy compared to
the Princess Shroobs. So make
sure you are healed up, and walk
to the back part of the castle
to watch yet another cut scene.
After Bowser eats up the
Mushroom, he will fight you.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--------------------------------
Boss: Bowser (with control of
Princess Shroob)
--------------------------------

Difficulty: Moderately Easy
Health: 10 pieces (not 10 HP)
Experience Points: 0


This is not really a battle, but
is more of a minigame to test
your counter attacking skills
(meaning you cannot attack
Bowser directly). Even if you
can't counter attack well, you
should be able to bat Bowser
with little or no trouble at
all. Before the battle begins,
you will notice that Princess
Shroob's ghost will hover to the
top screen. Your goal is to
dodge or counter attack all of
Bowser's attacks, so they can
hurt the ghost (she is the one
who has 10 pieces of health).

Bowser has four different
attacks, all which are fairly
easy to dodge. The two common
attacks he will use against is
his fireball attack (which will
either shoot for you from the
ceiling or from Bowser
directly). If Bowser shoots the
fire at you directly, you simply
have to jump over them to avoid
getting hit. The fireballs you
avoid will loop back to Princess
Shroob's ghost and will hit her
for half a piece of health for
each fireball. If the fireballs
will aim for you from the
ceiling, you have to hammer them
away to hit the ghost. To tell
which Brother each fireball is
aiming for, look at the shadows
of the fireballs as they shoot
into the sky (this will get
harder as Bowser shoots more
fireballs).

The two other attacks Bowser can
use against you are slow, but
powerful energy balls. This
means that it will deal twice as
much damage to you as the normal
fireballs, but they will chip
one whole piece of health from
the ghost if you successfully
counter attack it. You will see
Bowser charge up the energy ball
and he will spit it to you at a
slow speed. Whack the energy
ball away from you when it is
about one centimeter from the
target Brother.

Continue to dodge and counter
attack Bower's attacks (they get
faster as you continue the
battle), and before you know it,
Princess Shroob's ghost will die
leaving you victories.

Possible Items Obtained: None
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Excellent Job!! You just beat
Mario and Luigi Partners in
time! Give yourself a pat in the
back and watch the end scene.






=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
     Section 6: Credits and
     Contact Info [s6]
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+

Credits go to:


CJayC: For hosting this guide on
his website (GameFAQs)

charmandermaster1015 (me): For
writing this guide

Nintendo: For making a great
sequel for Super Saga

You: For reading this guide

Credits also go to the kind
members of the FAQs Contributors
message board for giving me tips
for writing my first guide
(especially peachfreak).



If you want to send suggestions,
compliments, or constructive
criticism, feel free to email me
(gman7331@gmail.com). If you are
a webmaster of another website
and wish to host this guide
there, you may so as long as you
do not modify this FAQ. As all
sites now have permission to use
this guide, I have removed the
"Allowed" list.


As you have probably noticed,
updates to my guides have been
very rare. Don't expect that to
change anytime soon as I am very
busy nowadays.
--------------------------------
EOF
