Document: FAQ/Walkthrough for
Mega Man ZX Author:
AscendedPikachuZero
(apzags001@sanbrunocable.com)

Legal Garbage Mega Man ZX and
all content therein copyright
Capcom This guide is copyrighted
to the author

If you wish to post this guide
on your site, you notify me
FIRST. I will find you if you
have put this on your site
without my authorization.

Table of Contents
Controls [NEWB]
Biometal Report [MEGA]
Walkthrough [JUMP]
"Catch the Maverick" [SECA]
"Locate Giro" [SECB]
"Pass the Test" [SECC]
Guardian HQ [SECX]
"Troop Reinforcement" [SECD]
"Search the Plant" [SECE]
"Find the Survivors" [SECF]
"Fight the Mavericks" [SECG]
"Secure the Biometal" [SECH]
"Protect HQ" [AHOY]
"Save the People" [SECI]
"Recover the Disk" [SECJ]
"Attack the Excavators" [SECK]
"Protect the Lab" [SECL]
"Stop the Dig" [SECM]
"Repel the Army" [SECO]
"Destroy Model W" [EVIL]
Overfiend's Legacy [SECN]
Courier Requests [GIRO]
Upgrades and Goodies [ITEM]
Disk Database [DISK]
Prairie's Report [CIEL]
World Map [MAPS]


Controls [NEWB]

Moving: Press left or right to
move in that direction. Easy to
remember and effective, since a
moving target is harder to hit.
Stay still against Pseudoroids,
and you'll be a smear on the
wall in no time flat.

Jumping: By default, press B to
jump. Jumping not only allows
you to cross gaps and scale
short bumps in the road, it also
helps you avoid enemy shots and
some smaller enemies.

Climbing: Press up to grab a
ladder, then press up or down to
climb it. You can drop onto a
ladder by simply pressing down
if you're atop it.

Dropping: Press down and jump to
drop from a surface. The
platform you're on cannot be
solid, though.

Doors: Open doors by walking up
to them. For those in the
background, press Up to enter
them. This is a basic Zero
mechanic, for those who have
only played Classic or X games.

Crawling [Hu]: Press down to
crouch, then left or right to
crawl. This allows you access to
places you can't get to
otherwise.

Dash >Hu<: Press L to dash by
default. You can use this to
speed up your movement.

Scale >Hu<: Press and hold the
control pad towards a wall to
grab it. You'll slide down, so
you should jump back up. For
those who only played Classic
games, this is a basic X/Zero
mechanic, so don't forget it!
Just remember not to try it on a
spiked wall.

Attack >Hu<: Press Y or R by
default to attack. Y is for the
prime weapon and R for the sub
weapon. Hold the button to
charge it up.

MEGA System: Press X by default
to access the MEGA system. You
can switch with A or X, and
cancel with B.

OIS [HX][FX][LX][PX][OX]: Press
A to activate Overdrive. See
each individual model in the
Biometal report for more
information.


Biometal Report [MEGA]

Human [Hu]
Weapons: None
Element: None
Where Found: Initial

Human form is the base form you
have. You start the game with
it, obviously. As useless as it
seems, it still has purpose.
First, you can crawl around.
This allows you to get to places
other forms can't access.
Second, people in Area C will
talk to you more favorably
compared to other forms. Third,
some Mechaniloids will not want
to kill you on sight. Other than
that, don't use it unless you
need to crawl.

Model X [X]
Weapons: X Buster
Element: None
Where Found: A-1

Model X is pretty damn good even
if it does have basic
maneuverability. It clearly
dominates in terms of average
damage output - launching the
two charge shots back to back
causes more damage than all
other non-element attacks on its
own. There are some drawbacks;
you can only fire straight, and
you lose Model X after the
battle in D-2 unless you've
already seen both characters
through to the end at least on
Normal.

Model ZX [ZX]
Weapons: ZX Saber, ZX Buster
Element: None
Where Found: D-2

Model ZX is a hybrid model
capable of both ranged and melee
combat. Unless you've beaten the
game with both characters at
least on normal, it'll be your
bread-and-butter form. At ranged
combat it's inferior to X, but
the saber hits a little above
and below you when used. You can
hold up to perform a spinning
attack while in midair.

Model HX [HX]
Weapons: HX Saber, HX Gladius
Element: Thunder
Where Found: E-7

Model HX is useful for melee
combat, but its mobility is
second to none. It's a form
you'll be using throughout the
entire game, so get used to it.

Shockwave: Use the Saber, then
the Gladius, then the Saber
again in quick order to unleash
a small shockwave from the two
swords. Air Dash: It's simple;
press dash in midair to dash
horizontally. Sky Boost: Hold up
while air dashing to boost
upward. Nice for getting around
some of those annoying edges.
Descend: Press jump in midair to
slow your descent. This allows
you to stretch your horizontal
distance considerably. Thunder
Saber: Initiate OIS to electrify
your weapons. You can use the
electric sabers to power some
devices - the cars in C-1 for
example. Ball Lightning: Charge
either saber and release to
launch a ball lightning
projectile that seeks out nearby
foes. Whirlwind: Charge either
saber to max and hold up while
releasing to launch a whirlwind
that batters foes. Enemy
Analyzer: The touch screen shows
the appearance and remaining
energy of the last enemy you
struck. It also reveals the
Biometal frame location on a
Pseudoroid in red.

Model FX [FX]
Weapons: FX Busters (L/R)
Element: Fire
Where Found: G-5

Model FX is a ranged combat
model. It's used to break just
about anything at a distance,
but it has melee uses as well.

Megaton Crash: Charge and
release next to an object to
damage and/or break it. You can
do this even without FX energy.
Fire Blaster: Initiate OIS to
superheat your shots. You can
use these shots to break ice
easily. Fireball: Charge and
release away from an object to
shoot a fireball that moves
straight ahead. Fire Wave:
Charge to max and hold down
while releasing to unleash a
wave of fire that moves along
the ground. Doesn't go far,
though. Buster Edit: You can use
the touch screen while the
game's paused to set a path for
the buster.

Model LX [LX]
Weapons: LX Halberd
Element: Ice
Where Found: F-5

Model LX seems lackluster on
land, but it's in water that it
dominates. Whenever you must
immerse yourself over your head
in water, LX is the form to use.

Water Dash: This is LX's
equivalent of an air dash. You
can use it to move just about
anywhere in water. Swim: Press
jump while waterborne or water
dash to swim. You can move
freely in any body of water.
Whirling Lance: This is LX's
attack while swimming. Attack
repeatedly to continue spinning
the blade and mince your
enemies. Ice Lance: Initiate OIS
to supercool the halberd. This
can freeze quite a number of
enemies. Glacier: Charge and
release to create a block of
ice. You can use it to attack or
as a platform to access a
variety of things. Seiryuu:
Charge to max and hold up while
releasing to launch a frosty
dragon from the lance. The
dragon will seek anything nearby
and freeze it solid. Item
Scanner: The touch screen
reveals the location of one
nearby item no matter where it
is. Use it in tandem with PX to
find out just where the item is.

Model PX [PX]
Weapon: PX Kunai Launcher
Element: None
Where Found: H-4

Model PX is an underappreciated
model, but it has enough uses in
its own right. Don't ever forget
you have it.

Hanging Edge: Press and hold up
to cling to any ceiling, and
then double tap up to flip onto
a platform. Darkvision: Model PX
has a larger light radius in the
dark parts of Area I. Make use
of this knowledge. Shadow Dash:
Initiate OIS and dash for this
ability. As long as you're
dashing only, you are
invulnerable to attack. Useful
for dodging some nasty hazards
and enemies. Fuuma Star: Charge
and release to launch a large
shuriken at an enemy. It will
return to you after a set
distance, slicing up anything in
its path. Chameleon Veil: Charge
to max and press up while
releasing to create a barrier
that repels small arms fire.
Radarscope: The touch screen
shows the true layout of the
upper screen. If you're looking
for a hidden passage, this is
the biometal to turn to.

Model OX [OX]
Weapon: OX Saber, OX Buster
Element: None
Where Found: N-1

To get Model OX, find the
Mysterious Rock in the Archives
of Area N after defeating Omega,
then turn it in to Fleuve after
smashing Model W. There's a
reason it's reserved for after
the end of the game; it's that
damn powerful.

Technical Prowess: Activate OIS
to unleash a multitude of
techniques! The following assume
you have OIS on. Flame Fang:
Press up and saber to perform a
flaming slash. Spark Wave: Press
down and saber to launch an
energy wave from your saber.
North Wind: Press saber in
midair to launch frosty waves
from your saber. Earthbreaker:
Press down and buster to knock
four rocks off the ground at the
enemy. Phoenix Spark: Press down
and release a buster charge to
emit multiple energy bursts.
Light Wave: Press down and
release a max buster charge to
fill the screen with light
waves, ripping apart anything in
their path.


Walkthrough [JUMP]

Once you've picked a character,
just watch the story. Your
chosen character and Giro are
atop a cliff with a decent view
of the Slither Inc. head office.
Apparently, Slither Inc. helped
the country recover over time,
but they couldn't save your
mother during an incident ten
years ago. At this point, the
two of you are delivering a
package for the Guardians. You
don't know what this package is,
but you soon find out it's worth
more than you anticipated as a
squad of Galleons open fire on
you, knocking you off a cliff
with the cargo.

After taking a ride to the
ground, you recover and find the
package near you. Giro gives you
orders to protect it at all
costs. You get over to it, only
to meet up with two soldiers and
a young woman. Fortunately, the
woman orders the soldiers to
stand down. After some
discussion, it seems they came
over to investigate the attack
that you were a part of. Before
you get much more out of her, a
snake Mechaniloid appears and
attacks the soldiers, knocking
them out.

The woman insists on keeping the
package, but the snake
Mechaniloid wants it, too. Since
you're caught in the middle, you
have a hard time figuring out if
it's worth it. That's when the
package forces its hand.
"Biolink established. MEGA
System Online." With those
words, you transform and pop a
plasma shot at the snake's face,
forcing it to retreat. After a
bit more dicussion, the woman
introduces herself as Prairie,
and you set forth to kick some
ass.

"Catch the Maverick" [SECA]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area A-2
Award: None

A-1 This is where you start.
This whole area is to get you
accustomed to the controls, so
take advantage of it. Just move
to the right and blast anything
that happens to fall in your
path. You don't need to climb
anything, so don't try. Whenever
I say "move and maul", that
means to go to the right and
destroy anything in your path.
There's a yellow door at the top
on the right end of the area,
but you don't have access to
that. Let it be for now.

A-2 Another area, just move and
maul. As you get closer to the
end, you run into your Maverick.
Ready? When a boss comes up,
I'll tell you when the prime
attack times are - when you
should strike the boss. I'll
also show you what their attacks
are and how best to dodge them.

BOSS: Giga Aspis
2 layers

Acid Spit: Giga Aspis' crystals
will shimmer red and then it
spits acid. Stay on one side
when it does this - either next
to it or on the other side of
the screen - and dash to the
other side when it actually
spits. Rock Toss: Giga Aspis
will retreat and smash its tail,
knocking rocks into the air. You
can jump over them or destroy
them. If you were me, jump them
and counter when it returns.
Rush: Giga Aspis will rush right
at you. Simply dash under it to
the middle of the screen and
again to get out from under its
tail. As it returns to the
field, blast it with a max
charge.

Giga Aspis is a pansy made to
look tough. If you know what to
do - and you should - you should
be able to take it down really
quickly. If for some reason you
lose all your lives to this boss
even on Easy mode, return the
game to the store - you just
plain suck. Of course, if you're
playing Hard mode, that's
another story...


Now that you've taken out the
trash, you should move on to the
Transerver straight ahead. That
was the initial rendezvous point
that Prairie set for the
delivery. Once there, you'll
find three Guardian soldiers and
a queer (odd, not gay) little
man right at the transerver. The
soldiers go to help Prairie and
the little man talks to you
where he is. Prairie mentions
his name (Fleuve) and tells him
to let you go help Giro, who
seems to be under attack in Area
B. You now have two new missions
- "Locate Giro" [SECB] and "Pass
the Test" [SECC]. I'll see you
at whatever section you choose.
From the Transerver exit, go to
the door atop the hill for B-1
[SECB] or go straight ahead for
C-1 [SECC].

Remember, Transervers and
Terminals are two different
things. Both allow you to accept
and report missions and save
data; only Transervers can send
you between regions in the blink
of an eye, but you need more
than one active Transerver to
gain that kind of access.

"Locate Giro" [SECB]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area B-1/B-2
Award: 250 EC

On the other side of A-2, climb
up the hill near the Valkyraffe
and go into the door at the top.
From C-1, go into the
Transerver.

B-1 You get a message from
Prairie about finding out what's
causing the Maverick outbreaks.
Move and maul, and you'll find a
computer chip on the way.
Prairie will want a look at
that, so grab as many as you
can. You can actually miss three
chips if you come here from the
B-2 Transerver and go straight
to the boss, so remember that.

B-2 More move and maul. Just
kill anything in your path on
your way through. If you want,
you can drop down and save your
progress at the Transerver
before facing the boss, who's
further to the right.

BOSS: Rayfly
2 layers

Cargo Drop: Rayfly will open its
doors and drop three crates. I
doubt it's worth staying under
the doors for long, so MOVE!
Plasma Ball: The two blue crates
will fire plasma at you. Dash
under it or jump over it to
dodge. Reprise by shooting the
red container in the stack.

This boss is impossible to
damage with weapons alone, so
instead use the crates it drops
as weapons. There's a red crate
in the stack; if you shoot it,
it'll cause the boxes above it
to launch up and nail Rayfly for
16 damage, while the ones below
it are destroyed. All the boxes
will be destroyed when the red
crate lands. You need to do this
four times to immobilize Rayfly.


Once Rayfly's immobilized, Giro
jumps in and chops it down in
one stroke. Yes, that's Giro,
dipstick, using the power of
Model Z. Anyway, with Giro on
his way back to Guardian HQ, the
mission's complete, so return to
the Transerver and report
completion.

"Pass the Test" [SECC]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area C-1/C-2
Award: 200 EC

From A-2, go due right and
through the door. From B-2, go
through the Transerver.

C-1 This is a peacable area in
the middle of the country. In
any case, you can do this entire
form with Hu, so switch back for
a risk-free mission. The gist is
that you need to find four
members of the Guardians in the
city and send them back to
Guardian HQ.

Oeillet: Inside the first actual
door in C-1. You can't miss her.
Carrelet: You'll find him in the
next actual door. You'll have to
crawl to get to him. Congre:
You'll find him in the last door
of C-1. Stay human to avoid the
Patrollaurs and to keep him from
panicking. Thon: He's in C-2
underneath a group of pillars.
You'll have to crawl to get to
him.

Once you've found them all,
Prairie will tell you to find
the proof. You'll find it
further down near the C-2
Terminal. Get the Stuffed Animal
and make your report.

Guardian HQ [SECX]

Once you've done both missions,
Fleuve will tell you to find a
Transerver and go to Area X-1.
Do so. On a side note, you can
get Bread from Lucia in C-1
Residential.

X-1 Surprised? Guardian HQ is
actually an airship! The
Guardians need to be able to
move quickly, so they need the
airship to accomplish this. In
any case, you can talk to
everyone on the ship now. You
can also buy an E Tank - a relic
from the Classic series that
refills your health to max - for
200 EC. You can only carry one,
but it's a lifesaver until you
get Sub Tanks. On Hard Mode,
it'll be the only lifesaver you
get until you complete Area L.

You can talk to Prairie in the
Command Room in X-2 to learn
more about what's going on and
to advance the story, and then
Fleuve for more story
advancement. Get ready to fight;
you've got a mission as soon as
you're done talking to him.
Mavericks are approaching Area
D, and the Guardians are
mobilizing to deal with the
threat. Giro, Fleuve, and
Prairie advise against you going
after them, but you go anyway.

"Troop Reinforcement" [SECD]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area D-1/D-2
Award: None

D-1 Giro moves out ahead and
it's your job to follow him.
Move and maul, dropping into the
pit after the second Capsule
Shooter to grab a Disk and, more
importantly, a Life Up.

D-2 Move and maul. You'll find
two King Flyers there, just like
you would Bee Bladers. This
whole section was modeled after
the first stage in Mega Man X,
so people who played that know
exactly what to expect. And at
the end of a stage is Giro, as
well as Serpent and two
accomplices. Giro is awfully
battered, and it only gets
worse; Serpent uses Model W to
take control over Giro before he
and his buddies leave. You have
no choice now; you have to fight
Giro.

BOSS: Giro (Model Z)
2 layers

Dash Strike: Giro will dash
towards you. You can jump over
him. Jumping Strike: Giro will
jump upward and slash on his way
down. Dash under him. Light
Wave: Giro stabs his sword into
the ground and sends light beams
upward. Dash towards a beam
after it's passed in front of
you, and not a moment before.
Saber Smash: Giro will smash his
saber into the ground, knocking
chunks of the ground up. You can
blast them and him in one shot.
Z-Divide: Giro will jump up to
one corner, then move in a Z
pattern. Start at the corner
opposing him, then dash-jump
over him when he dashes at you.

Giro is a bit overwhelming, but
he's deceptively easy. Watch his
attack patterns and reprise
after each one. There's no time
he's invulnerable, so hammer
into him.


After taking all that abuse,
Giro gets smacked down by
Serpent. Serpent explains
himself, and you predictably
blast at him, only for
Prometheus to repel your attack,
and then he smacks you down
himself. He then has Pandora
pull the password data out of
the two of you so he can use it
for Project Haven. It doesn't
sound promising. With Serpent
gone, Giro tells you that you
have to continue on in his
place, and his last wish is for
Model Z to assist you. He then
degrades into a Cyber-elf and
vanishes. The Galleons swarm you
and prepare to fire, and that's
when you link up with Model Z,
forming Model ZX. However,
Serpent and his buddies get
away, and you need to get your
butt back to Guardian HQ.

Back at Guardian HQ, Prairie
drops a bombshell; Model W can
corrupt machines and humans
alike. It's the source of the
Maverick outbreaks. However,
Serpent only has the Biometal at
hand. The Model W Core is sealed
away, but it's likely Serpent is
going to try to access and
awaken it. Its location is still
unconfirmed, but you need the
Biometal passwords to get to it.
You have models X and Z, whereas
Serpent has the other four. You
have to go get them now so you
can intercept Serpent and,
hopefully, thwart his ambitions.

Anyway, you can get a W Tank by
abusing the doll in Prairie's
room, and Smelling Salts from
Scombresoce for 10 EC. Also,
Carrelet will give you the
Eraser chip if you pester him.
When you're ready to go, Prairie
will give you a Yellow Card Key
so you can access the mission
zones. All mission zones are
behind a yellow door, so don't
forget it.

You now have four missions:
"Search the Plant" [SECE], "Find
the Survivors" [SECF], "Fight
the Mavericks" [SECG], and
"Secure the Biometal" [SECH]. Go
to their respective sections for
more information.

"Search the Plant" [SECE]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area E-7
Award: 200 EC, Green Card Key

Area E is easy, as is its boss,
so it's a good area with which
to start. From the C-2 terminal,
go due right until you reach the
fountain, then jump across it to
the yellow door. Area E is
beyond that.

E-1 This is another move and
maul section. Just kill
everything in sight as you go.
With some good shots, you can
kill the Web Bolts before they
can attack you.

E-2 There are some rotating
electric crosses. Move with
them, and hit a switch to
reverse some of them so you can
go all the way through.

E-4 Oh, how I HATE Energy
Cannons. Avoid them as needed,
then cross the gears to the
other side. Bust the Bolt Faces
and go through to the door.

E-3 Traverse the conveyor belts
and kill the Galleons on the
way. At the end you can kill the
power, making this place so much
easier. Return to E-4 and keep
moving. At the conveyor belts on
the bottom, you'll find a Bolt
Face guarding a Sub Tank. Get
it!

E-6 It's a Crushpactor! They're
not so bad; just go forth and
slaughter! Remember, be where
the roller is not, and watch for
the laser! From there, return to
E-4 through the other door and
move on to E-5.

E-5 Cyber-elves! They're using
Cyber-elves to power the
factory! You've got to stop this
atrocity now! Move and maul, but
when you get to the falling
platforms, dash-jump to get a
Secret Disk and a Life XL
pickup. Life XL pickups refill
all your life, but if you have
something in the Sub Tank, use
it to max your current life out
so it loads the tank to
capacity. Drop down and make the
rest of the trip to E-7.

E-7 Hivolt's here, and he's
quite chatty. He thinks he can
get away with it because he's
going to kill you. Show him how
wrong he is.

BOSS: Pseudoroid H Hivolt
Raptoroid 2 layers Element:
Thunder Biometal Frame: Wings

Thunder Claw: Hivolt's claws
become electrically charged. You
can jump through the gap the
shots make and dash close to his
claw so he goes over you, or you
can become human and crouch to
dodge the whole thing. Remote
Claw: He sets two claws at the
corners of the field. Jump to
avoid whatever shots threaten to
hit you, and dodge however else
you can. Triple Slash: Hivolt
slashes three times, emitting a
wave after the third. Jump to
dodge it and don't reprise.
Laser Wave: Hivolt flies to the
top of the screen, firing
tracking beams. At first, be
where the beams are not. Then go
to where they once were. Rush:
Hivolt will rush at you. Jump
over him. Thunder Arc: He'll arc
thunder on the ground. This is a
rare attack, but it can be
avoided by being behind him when
he uses it.

Despite his big talk, Hivolt's a
pansy. Aim for his legs and
blast the heck out of him,
making certain to hit him when
he returns to the field after
his attacks. Don't waste time,
just get in there and fight. If
you have LX, the fight becomes
sickeningly easy - you can
debilitate him in just about any
case, ending him before he can
even damage you.


Now that Hivolt's taking a dirt
nap, Model H thanks you for his
freedom. However, he's been
split into two, and the other
password is with another
Pseudoroid. Anyway, make your
report, but you might want to
check out E-8 first. It's
entirely optional, but go ahead
and do it anyway. You can also
disable the fountain at C-2 for
easy Transerver access.

With that out of the way, you
unlock a new mission in Area I
now that you have a Green Card
Key. Of course, now would not be
the best time to pursue it; it
can be difficult.

Another thing: based on how many
times you abused the Biometal
frame, you will get a Biometal
piece of a level between 1 and
4. The more you abuse the frame,
the lower the level you'll get,
but the more damage you do to
the Pseudoroid. So if you want
it easy, abuse the weak point,
but otherwise just stay clear.
If you do damage the Biometal
piece, you can have Fleuve
repair it. It costs 40 for
Lv1->Lv2, 100 for Lv2->Lv3, and
200 for Lv3->Lv4. That's on
Easy. Multiply by 5 for Normal
and 50 for Hard. That's a LOT of
E-Crystals. As a side note, you
get a plushie of a Pseudoroid if
you get a Lv4 finish on it.
Later on, after [AHOY],
PSeudoroids will regenerate
based on who you killed first in
a group of five. So if you're
not willing to spend E-Crystals
to repair a Biometal frame, you
can always aim for a higher
level finish against that
Pseudoroid. The capacity for
energy is based on the highest
level of repair or acquisition,
so you won't lose capacity for a
poorer performance.

"Find the Survivors" [SECF]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area F
Award: 200 EC, Blue Card Key

To get to Area F, go to B-2,
either through D-1 or through
the B-2 transerver. From there,
go to B-1 and then B-3.

B-3 You can climb up the wall
with HX for 32 E-Crystals and a
Retry. There's also a Life XL,
but you need human form to get
to it. Anyway, move and maul
your way up to the entrance to
F-1.

F-1 This is the area where the
distress signal's coming from,
but you need to get closer to
its source. Move and maul as
usual. Remember, this place is
cold, so HX might not be the
best choice.

F-2 This is an underwater area.
Remember that to avoid getting
unnecessarily bogged down. The
Galleon Divers can be busted by
breaching the air pipes. There
are some ice blocks denying your
access to the upper areas.
You'll need FX to break through
those, I'm afraid.

F-3 This is where the signal is
coming from, but there's nobody
here. Climb upwards and find the
source, as well as another
Crushpactor wanting to turn you
into a greasy pancake. Pop it
like its brother and move on to
the terminal where the signal's
coming from. By the way, there
are some ice blocks on the floor
that you need FX to destroy.

With the Crushpactor needing
recycling, it seems there's
nobody at the distress beacon
point, but there is a disk
there. Upon further examination,
it's from the first commander's
recon unit! Vent's story
mentions that it was on Model W
and that one man went on to
decimate the squad - Aile's
story mentions all that, plus
that one man was Serpent! Well,
we know how Serpent got his
hands on Model W now... there's
a door leading deeper. You don't
know the code, but Prairie's
going to hack her way in and
find out. She'll have it
unlocked by the time you arrive.

F-4 Another underwater area, and
this one has spikes. Be very
careful here. There's a data
disk here that you need LX to
get. You'll be getting LX REAL
soon.

F-5 Another boss coming up from
the shape of the shutters.
Lurerre wants you dead to keep
the data on that disk from
leaking out. You're taking that
thing with you, and she isn't
gonna get in your way... right?

BOSS: Pseudoroid L Lurerre
Abysroid 2 layers Element: Ice
Biometal Frame: Lure head

Ice Shards: Lurerre will fire
ice shards at you. You can jump
over them. Snowflake: Lurerre
will launch a spiked ball of ice
that drops snowflakes. These
form frosty spikes that are
dangerous - not lethal - to
touch. You can bust them,
however. Ice Beam: Lurerre fires
a thick ice beam. Stick to the
back and jump all the way over
it. Fish Missile: Lurerre will
raise her fish body up and have
it fire a missile at you while
she rains ice shards on you. You
can damage the fish without
damaging the Biometal, so do it!
Fish Rush: She'll disappear and
her fish will rush you. Get to
the left end of the arena to
dodge it! You can damage the
fish head as it rushes you, too!

Lurerre isn't that hard to deal
with - the spot on her head is
small, but if she's throwing ice
shards it can be easy to hit
that spot. Watch your attacks
and counter accordingly.
Remember that whole fish head is
vulnerable, so attack it when it
emerges.


Once Lurerre goes belly-up,
Model L thanks you for springing
her. Again, half the password,
and the other one that has it is
elsewhere - probably with the
missing half of the data. Model
L manages to learn that someone
actually bested Model Z, and
that drives it to cooperate with
you. Anyway, get your prize and
the Blue Card Key, which allows
you to go to Area J for "Recover
the Disk" [SECJ]. Don't go there
yet; it's a little tough for you
now.

"Fight the Mavericks" [SECG]
Client: Prairie Destination:
Area G Award: 200 plus 50 per
civilian after that (Max of
400), Red Card Key.

You need to get to Area G for
this one, and the only way is
through Area D. The game forced
you back to base before you
could get to the Transerver, so
you'll have to hike all the way
through Areas D-1 and D-2 again.
Go through the Transerver to get
to Area D-3.

D-3 There's no way to the upper
area, but you'll have to come
here later anyway. For now, just
cut through and move on to Area
G-1.

G-1 The whole area is on fire!
Rush on through, killing
anything in sight! Remember, HX
is the form to use, but watch
the energy levels and fill up if
you're getting low. Otherwise,
move and maul. Maquereau will
have you go in to rescue
civilians and even Guardians
trapped inside.

G-2/G-3/G-4 The whole room is on
fire, so watch your step and use
HX judiciously. Remember that
civilians will panic unless
you're human when you talk to
them. Remember that to minimize
the time spent here. Work from
B-1 up and rescue everyone you
can. Once you get eight, you
gain access to the 8th floor,
but you should rescue the others
anyway.

G-5 Move across the rooftops,
but try to conserve health.
You'll need it for who's at the
other end of this madness.

BOSS: Pseudoroid F Fistleo
Predatoroid 2 layers Element:
Fire Biometal Frame: Head

Burning Rush: He'll rush at you,
setting the ground ablaze. Avoid
this. Light Spark: He'll set
three light sparks - one on his
hands, and two where you are.
You can strike his back twice
during this if you can get
there. Aura: He'll heal himself
during this time. Strike him in
the back if you have a chance to
interrupt. Block Buster: He'll
knock blocks from the ceiling
and then rush through him. You
can attack his back afterwards,
but make it quick. Counter
Stance: If you get near him when
his back is turned, he'll grab
you and throw you around. Wait
it out. Blazing Rush: He'll jump
to the wall and rush, leaving
four fireballs behind him. Dodge
them by air dashing through the
gap he leaves behind.

Fistleo is a pain because of the
Biometal frame and the few
chances you have to hit his
back. Still, avoid his attacks
and wait for your opportunity to
strike. His healing makes it
even more annoying because it
reverses the damage you do to
him. You can use regular slashes
to save energy and undo the
damage he recovers.


Anyway, with Fistleo's ninth
life expiring, Model F thanks
you and wants to get to kicking
more ass. Again, he's been split
in half, and another Pseudoroid
has the other half of his data.
In any case, get your reward and
the Red Card Key. The Transerver
is also the sprinkler controls,
so use those to clean up the
mess Fistleo made. Again,
another mission comes up now
that you have your card key, and
this one you MUST ignore. It
will eat an unprepared player
alive.

"Secure the Biometal" [SECH]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area H-4
Award: 200 EC, Purple Card Key

Remember Area A-1? That yellow
door atop the hill on the right?
That's where you need to go. It
leads to A-3.

A-3 Move and maul. There's only
one non-yellow door you can take
because you don't have the
purple keycard. You can try for
an apple by smashing the tree
with FX, but it doesn't always
drop.

H-1 An amusement park. Your
character will freak for a
moment here. Anyway, move and
maul.

H-2 Giant Mettaur! Smash it in
the face, and be quick about it!

After a talk with Prairie, it's
time to continue onward. It
seemed that this wasn't just a
Maverick attack, but THE attack
which kacked your mom ten years
back. In any case, go to H-3.

H-3 You can get a candy here if
you're lucky. In any case, climb
up, proceed onward, and get past
the blimp room. I hope you got a
bit of focus after this manic
stage...

H-4 ...because you've got a
Pseudoroid right around the
corner!

BOSS: Pseudoroid P Purprill
Mandroid 2 layers Biometal
Frame: Arms

Bomb Launch: Purprill will
launch three bombs and then
grapple the rope above him. The
bombs' explosions linger, so
stay clear. Mine Toss: Purprill
will toss mines. They will
detonate after a while, so leave
them be. Rush: Purprill will
rush towards your side, jump on
the wall, then jump off and
hang. Shoot his legs now! Blade
Spin: Purprill will roll up and
spin at you. He'll bounce off
the walls on the way up and on
the way down, but one variant
has him sticking in the wall and
drilling out rocks! Get clear!

Purprill can be almost
everywhere at once, but as long
as you don't surrender to panic,
you'll have this fight soon
enough. Remember, his big
frickin' arms are where the
Biometal frame is, so don't
shoot unless they're away from
his body. When he's hanging,
that is the best time to strike.


"Drowning in his own power...
what an appropriate end for a
low-life that wanted it so
badly." Damn, Model P says some
of the coolest stuff. In any
case, his loyalty to his cause
means he's joining up with you,
but his data is split like all
the rest. "As long as that
Pseudoroid is operational, you
will never reach Model W."
Predictably enough, he's right.
In any case, report mission
completion. There's a new
mission, but you might want to
wait on it.

"Protect HQ" [AHOY]

With four Pseudoroids down,
Slither Inc. needs a way to slow
you down, and what better way
than to kill two birds with one
bomb? He plans to take out the
Guardian HQ and everyone
onboard! Get your ass back there
A.S.A.NOW!

Everyone's gone into hiding or
manning the turrets, leaving
Prairie and the operators in the
control room. And sure enough,
they need you to help them take
out the enemy as they try to
board the ship. Go up to deck
and put the irate back into
those pirates! I find that PX
kills the transports real fast.

WARNING: Once you take out the
warship, you will not be able to
save until the danger has
passed. You have been warned.

OK, so those two bitches
Prometheus and Pandora are
aboard, as are an assload of
Galleons. Let none survive! If
you need to restore your Sub
Tanks, make certain to do it
before going to L1. The enemy
will blow holes in the bottom,
and if you fall, not even HX can
save you from that height.
Speaking of HX, you'll love it
for the next fight, but you'll
auto-switch to ZX once you enter
the room.

BOSS: Prometheus
2 layers
Element: Fire

Pandemonium: Prometheus will set
a series of explosions off in
the arena, trailing down one
wall, across the floor, and up
the other. Dodge it. Chaos
Flame: Prometheus will create
four flames which shoot their
own shots at you. They do this
four times before Prometheus
leaves, but you can damage him
during this time with HX's OIS,
and does it damage him badly!
Dark Tempest: Prometheus will
rush you and emit a shockwave
from his scythe, and then rise
up while spinning it. You can
stop him for a moment with your
Buster to get around him.

Once Prometheus has been punked,
he'll talk some more. In Aile's
story, he'll claim that she's
part of the game now, and that
Model W will be waiting with
open arms when she comes.

Prairie comes in and brings you
back to the command center. She
then explains herself. To Aile,
she says that she was originally
ordered by Sis to watch over
those who survived the Maverick
raids. She doubted the order
until she saw Giro use Model Z
himself. That's as much as she
knows.

In any case, you have new
missions and some new things to
get, too. Go for it!

"Save the People" [SECI]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area I-3
Award: 200 EC

Trans to E-7 and jump inside
I-1.

I-1 It's raining, and Prairie
tells you what you need to know.
The weather should suggest that
strong winds will come into
play. You'll see where, though.
In any case, move and maul.
There's a weak spot in the
spiked wall on the other side,
but you miss a ton of stuff if
you take that route. Take it on
the way back; I'll explain why.

I-2 There are two routes: right
and down. Go down for now. On
the way, switch to PX; things
are going to get a bit dark
here. PX can see further in the
dark, and Radarscope tells you
the rest. Move and maul, baby.

I-4 There's a miniboss in this
area. Switch to FX and align
your shots as follows. (U=Up,
D=Down, F=Forward) Arm 1: UUUF
Arm 2: DF

This way, you'll always hit the
face of the miniboss unless it's
going to swoop at you. Dash
under it when it prepares to
swoop, dodge the lasers, and
shoot like a maniac the rest of
the time from the opposite
corner of the miniboss.

With it toast, move and maul.
That simple. You can grab a
couple of disks with HX and a
little electricity, but just be
careful of the spikes.

I-3 Drop down and load up your
Sub Tanks, then switch to LX and
prepare for battle.

BOSS: Pseudoroid H Hurricaune
Wolveroid 2 layers Element:
Thunder Biometal Frame: Head and
neck

Drill Wind: Hurricaune will jump
into the air, then slowly
descend with a hurricane. If
allowed to land, she'll spread
electricity through the ground.
On the way down is a PRIME
opportunity for LX to attack.
Twister: Hurricaune will prepare
two twisters and send them
forward. You can dash-jump off a
wall over them, or dash under
some of them. Sonic Slicer:
Hurricaune will shoot a sonic
blade that splits into two when
it hits a wall. Dash-jump over
this or dash under it. If she
has her back exposed and you can
get behind her, STRIKE! Cyclone:
Hurricaune will get into the
center of the arena and form a
strong whirlwind, launching
energy waves from the center.
Jump over the bottom waves only,
and don't grab a wall! Don't
attempt to counter, either.

Hurricaune talks big, but she's
a wuss underneath it when you
bring LX to bear. Strike where I
tell you to, and this is over
before you know it.


With Hurricaune toast, Model H
will be complete, but he doesn't
have the password ready. Don't
worry; with all the data put
together, he'll have it ready
before you have to face Model W.
In any case, retreat and go
through the door where the
Galleons are floating. You will
also note, if this is your fifth
Pseudoroid, one of the others
has resurrected. You can fight a
Pseudoroid again to get a Lv4
finish if you didn't already do
so. It's a good idea to go for
that, trust me.

Back at I-1, move and maul for
two chambers, then crawl out the
passage and return to I-2. Now
take the top route. You'll see a
spiked path; you'll need HX to
fly through it, so do it
carefully.

I-5 Remember that Diadrake
miniboss you fought earlier?
This is another version. Use Arm
1 to shoot its face and Arm 2 to
shoot down the missiles it
fires, as well as its tail if it
dislodges. After it croaks, move
and maul onward until you reach
a platform that's unpowered -
the kind a Platform Cannon would
ride. Once there, charge HX to
max and hold up while releasing
to send the platform upward.
Once it lands, do it again and
grab the Life Up. From there, go
straight ahead and onward, past
Hurricaune's remains, and pop
the lock to complete the
mission.

Once you return to town, check
on Leonardo and he'll hand over
an Absorber chip if you pester
him. He's in the building right
next to the fountain in C-2.

"Recover the Disk" [SECJ]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area J-5
Award: 200 EC

You'll have to trek to Area A-4
from the A-2 Transerver, so hop
to it! It's the only way into
Area J, since it doesn't have a
Transerver. In Area A-1, at the
far right, there's a door
between two mounds. Drop there
and enter.

A-4 There's a way up and a crawl
hole up ahead. Take the crawl
hole.

J-1 You get a report from
Prairie, but what's more
important is the fact that this
entire zone is waterlogged. This
makes it ideal for LX! Take it
for a test drive here!

Anyway, you'll come to a four-
way split, including the way you
came from, to the left. Up is a
Terminal, down is a Life Up, and
right is J-2.

J-2 Ride the waters using LX and
move carefully through here.
It's an aquatic move and maul,
but the spikes warrant caution.

J-3 There's a miniboss here.
Stand atop the boss and strike
it with your halberd whenever it
attacks. It'll be over soon
enough.

There are a variety of items
here you can get, but many are
protected by spikes. Be careful.
And you know what's coming next
once you get to the door...

J-5 You've found the Data Disk
and the Pseudoroid guarding it!
He thinks people don't deserve
to know what's on that disk.
Well, he may be right... but not
for the right reasons!

BOSS: Pseudoroid L Leganchor
Gelroid 2 layers Element: Ice
Biometal Frame: Upper head

Frost Eel: He'll launch these
out of his mouth. Just blast the
face anyway. Searchlight: He'll
use this to seek you out and
then shoot harpoons if he spots
you. Keep moving. Harpoons:
He'll launch his harpoons into
the ground and freeze it a bit.
You can't climb the walls
anymore, but you don't have to.
Whirlpool: He'll spin whirlpools
to try to suck you in. Mash the
control pad if you get sucked in
to break free. Dive: He'll dive
underwater, knocking water up on
the walls. He only does this if
you're above the surface, but
you don't even HAVE to see this
attack.

This is clearly the easiest
Pseudoroid to 4-rank. Simply go
into OIS long enough to shoot
his head from below. Repeat that
when he can take damage again
and it'll all be over real soon.


A complete Model L and the Data
Disk is in your hands. This
fills in the gaps from the other
one and explains that Serpent
survived the attacks as well.
Now you need to get back to J-1
to file your report. Move
further on and proceed through
the doors, picking up the Life L
if you need it. Now go through
J-4 to J-2 and from there to J-1
and make your report.

"Attack the Excavators" [SECK]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area K-4
Award: 200 EC

You need to get to C-3 and go to
Area K from there. Nothing much
to see in C-3, really.

K-1 OK, there are geysers here,
some with platforms, some
without. If you're caught
between a platform and the
ground, I hope you enjoy being
two-dimensional, as that means
instant death. Basically, this
place is one giant death trap.
Tread lightly. Once you reach
the door and the giant geyser,
prepare for a mini-boss in K-2.

K-2 The miniboss dies all too
fast from an OIS Whirlwind, but
he's easy otherwise. That's it
for this area. You fall down
once it's dead, though.

K-3 Maquereau tells you that
there's a device to control the
lava flow in this region. You
might want to look into it. Go
up to K-5 if you want to find
it, otherwise go to K-4 by going
straight.

K-5 You're right inside a
volcanic tunnel, and the lava's
chasing right after you! Climb
up like there's no tomorrow, and
whatever you do, DON'T STOP!

Through the door and back in
K-1, drop into the first pit and
you'll find a door to the
controls. Set the flow to Slow
to make things easier, but by no
means easy. Remember, contact
with lava is fatal. There's a
shutter here, but that's for the
Sub Tank, and I'll cover that in
its proper section. For now,
take the trolley back, jump in
the hole, and go to K-4.

K-4 More lava! Remember, contact
is fatal, so dash all the way to
the right and don't stop for
anything until you reach the
boss shutters!

After all that, you face the
boss. He's no fun, I'll tell you
now.

BOSS: Pseudoroid F Flammole
Moleroid 2 layers Element: Fire
Biometal Frame: Arms

Flamethrower: Flammole will
launch a stream of flame at you.
Dash jump over it off a wall.
Fireblast: Flammole will shoot
four balls of molten lava. Avoid
them. Dig: Flammole will dig.
One variation has him moving
back and forth through the
ground. The other has him moving
up and down, burrowing from
ceiling and floor. Dodge the
first by hanging on the wall and
the second by moving back and
forth. Shoot his legs when he
goes into the ground and not a
second before. Eruption:
Flammole will strike the ground
thrice, the first two with one
arm and the last with both.
Wall-jump to dodge the first two
and stay perfectly still to
dodge the third.

Just like with Purprill,
Flammole's arms are the Biometal
frame. Time your attacks to
avoid hitting them - when he's
drilling up and down is ideal,
but you can skim his back if
you're a good shot. X is a good
form, but ZX will do as well.


With Flammole dead, you now have
a complete FX. Move on to the
transerver to report completion.
If you want, you can do missions
in this area, but be ready for
some hair-yanking moments.

"Protect the Lab" [SECL]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area L-4
Award: 200 EC

To get to Area L, you need to
trans to A-2 and go through the
Powmettaur in H-2. The purple
door there leads to L-1.

Area L is a plain rush - go
through and kill everything in
sight. Remember that the blue
arrays reverse controls and stop
jamming, while the red arrays
jam your weapons. And what do
you know... the boss has the
data you came to grab! Another
reason to kill him!

BOSS: Pseudoroid P Protectos
Goreroid 2 layers Biometal
Frame: His belly

Missiles: He'll launch four
micro missiles which seek you.
They're insignificant. Plasma
Bombs: He'll shoot three plasma
bombs on each side of him. Blue
explode horizontally, red
explode vertically, and green
vanish only to explode later.
You can attack him by standing
where a red or green is, but
make certain you can get his
face. Stomp: He'll drop down
from the top in an attempt to
stomp you. Watch out! Nuke:
He'll launch a nuke and then
hole up. Get behind him to avoid
the blast! Barrier: He'll erect
a barrier to protect himself.
Shoot at his feet to dispel it
without risk.

Protectos is a big softy
underneath his hardened
exterior. Whenever he's moving,
shoot him in the face with X,
ZX, or even PX (lowest level,
lest you risk hitting the
Biometal frame). FX can hit him
no matter where he is with some
clever buster editing. Watch him
when he launches the nuke, and
be patient above all else.


"O, how the mighty have fallen.
Strong armor is nothing compared
to the power of will." Yep,
Model P has some of the best
quotes. In any case, he's
complete, and now you have a
data disk. Vent's disk has more
info on Model W, while Aile's is
a message meant for her from the
first commander. The data's
corrupt now, but you'll get to
restore it back at Guardian HQ.

"Stop the Dig" [SECM]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area M
Award: 200 EC

With all the Pseudoroids smashed
and the Biometals reassembled,
it's time to return to HQ, where
Prairie will have finished
decoding that disk that you
found on Protectos' remains. The
passwords will be reassembled
after you finish receiving the
message. In any case, you now
have a new mission - to
intercept Slither Inc., who is
currently digging in Area M for
Model W. Remember Area A-4? Go
back to the crawl hole, except
go up this time. You'll find the
door to Area M soon.

M-1 "I am the wind that blows
through the sky, Ventus Airus."
"I am the water that flows
across the land, Glacius
Passio." "I am the fire that
brings heat to all life, Flamma
Wies." "I am the shadow that
never leaves the side of
justice, Umbra Profess." "I am
the light that illuminates all
possibilities, Lumine
Infinitus..." "I am the courage
that fights for believes,
Fortitude Creed..."

With those six, the lock is
open. Go forth and kill another
flier boss. From there, move and
maul.

M-2 More move and maul, except
you can use HX to fly over the
spikes or FX to bust the blocks.
In any case, the second room
requires LX to navigate.

M-3 Not much further... just
move and maul. Beyond the door
is a bragging Serpent and...

BOSS: Pandora
2 layers
Element: Variable

Thunderspark: Pandora shoots
electric sparks at you. It's
possible to dodge them, but be
quick to attack or she'll get
going with it, and that's a
pain. She's weak to Ice in this
state. Ride: She'll ride her
staff like a broomstick. Dodge
it with some clever footwork.
Frost Jar: She'll form a jar out
of ice and slide it across the
room. Avoid it by staying on the
walls, attack while she's
forming it. She's weak to Fire
in this state. Ice Bit: She'll
use the two bits on her head to
shoot you with ice shards. Abuse
them until they leave you alone.
Thunder Bit: She'll use the two
bits to form an electric column.
Counter by striking them before
they electrocute you to death!


It seems Pandora distracted you
long enough for Serpent to
extract the Model W Core.
Fighting is breaking out in Area
O, so get back to HQ ASAP!
There's a whole other area
beyond, but I'll cover it after
the game.

"Repel the Army" [SECO]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area O
Award: None

Trans to D-2 and go to D-3 from
there. There was a ladder
leading up that was retracted
earlier, but it's extended now.
Climb up and prepare to fight.

O-1 Prairie radios you again -
for the last time - and it's
time to get rolling. I hope you
have PX ready to roll, because
Slither Inc. has a dropship
waiting for you.

O-2 You'll find Galleon Burners
that are a serious threat, so
take them out on your way to the
Transerver. From there, go
forward and take out a
Tentalamia, and keep going until
you reach the end for more
garbage from P&P.

BOSS: Pandora/Prometheus Tag
Team 3 layers Element: Variable

Pandora and Prometheus have all
the attacks from before, so
there's nothing new to see here.
There is one where Pandora uses
her bits to shoot both elements
at you, and Prometheus dives
down and scatters fire
afterwards. Other than that, all
old hat. Take 'em down.

Prairie gives you one last
speech before sending you off on
the final mission. Take the time
to prepare; it's a doozy.

"Destroy Model W" [EVIL]
Client: Prairie
Destination: Area D-4/D-5
Award: Game Clear

Return to the place where you
fought Giro. That's the entrance
to Slither Inc.'s main office.
Get ready for a fight; it's
going to be one grueling march
all the way to the top.

D-4 Move and maul, making your
way to the lift. Once you're
there, there's no route back.
Ascend and kill everything in
your path.

The first door is where you
switch to LX; I like to call it
Harpuia's Floor, since
everything here is a H
Pseudoroid. Kill them both the
same way you did before and move
on. At the top of this lift,
switch to FX; this is
Leviathan's floor for the same
reason the one below was
Harpuia's floor.

Beyond that room is a lobby, so
kill everything to build your
Sub Tanks; the next two are
brutal. First is Fefnir's floor,
and then there's Phantom's
floor. Before you go into the
last telepod chamber, you can
climb up and pick up a Life L
and Retry if you need them.

D-5 We're in the home stretch.
Move on forward and kill
everything. Don't forget to max
your Sub Tanks; it all ends
here.

BOSS: Serpent (Model W)(Phase 1)
3 layers

V-Shot: Serpent fires five
bullets in a V formation - one
going at you to pin you, the
other coming down to strike.
Dash-jump off a wall for the
first variant, dash away from
the second. Power Orb: Serpent
charges an energy orb and fires
it at you. You can abuse it to
purify its polarity, and use it
to damage Serpent instead.
Slide: He slides, Classic style.
Stay clear. Dark Boost: He
performs a nasty uppercut like a
Shouryuken. You can dodge this,
but he does pull it out
suddenly. Dark Kick: OK, did
Capcom play Super Smash
Brothers? After he teleports,
Serpent does a Falcon Kick to
your head with this. Dash away
once you see him warp out. Dark
Aura: Yes, just like you, he has
an Overdrive. This amplifies his
attacks and remains throughout
the battle. Stay alert.

After breaking Serpent, he
claims that hate is the true
power to drive Model W, and
then, like every other final
boss in Mega Man history,
transforms into a larger - and
more grotesque - form. The
difference between them and
Serpent is that Serpent does it
in full-on anime form. It's not
over yet, bucko; not by a
longshot.

FINAL BOSS: Serpent (Model
W)(Phase 2) 1 layer per form, 3
forms

Crystal Smash (1/3): Serpent
forms a crystal and smashes it
with his hand. Dodge the shards.
The advanced form uses a larger
crystal and spreads more shards,
and you must dodge the hands as
well. Meteors (1/2): Serpent
drops four meteors and leaves
behind two will-o-wisps from
each, each closing in on you.
They're fragile, however. Plasma
Sphere (1/2): Serpent will shoot
plasma spheres that split into
fragments when they hit the
ground or an attack. They
fragments go diagonally, so stay
horizontal and you're clear.
Dark Matter (2/3): Serpent forms
a vortex to suck in dark matter,
and then spews it back out. It
doesn't damage, but it slows
your movement so you are more
susceptible to attack. It melts
right off the Chameleon Veil,
however. Tracker (2/3): Serpent
fires two tracking beacons. An
energy chain will drain life
from you if one of them hits, so
get clear! Doom Nail (3):
Serpent fires energy balls from
his nails. Avoid them by jumping
or dashing.

With that, it's over. Sit back
and enjoy the end of the story.
But it's not over yet...

Hard Mode: You unlock this after
beating the game once on Normal.
Retain X: If you beat the game
with both characters at least on
Normal, you can retain Model X
after obtaining ZX.

Save your game and see what the
Area N has to offer!

Overfiend's Legacy [SECN]

This is an optional area you can
investigate, but it has some
neat stuff in it. From the M-3
Transerver, go due right into
N-1.

You have to destroy some Relic
Bosses to acquire the Mysterious
Rock that is Biometal O. For one
of the doors before the vault,
you need Mega Man Zero 3 in the
GBA slot; the other requires
Mega Man Zero 4. To get Biometal
O, you can either destroy the
eight Relic Bosses in the Zero
Chambers or you can destroy
Omega. Take your pick. For those
without both games, you don't
have a choice.

RELIC BOSS: Deathtanz Mantisk
2 layers

Rolling Sickle: DM will launch a
scythe into the wall, and it
rolls around back to him. Jump
it and reprise. Thousand Slash:
DM will fire a laser into the
air, dislodging a rock. He'll
then slice it up, sending it at
you. You can bust the rock and
damage him if you're good
enough. Sickle Launch: DM will
fire his arm at you, then reel
it back in extended. You can
attack him. Leaping Slash: DM
will jump onto a wall, then drop
onto you with a fast slash. Dash
behind him and counter!

RELIC BOSS: Devilbat Schilt
2 layers
Element: Thunder

Bolt Launch: DB will fire
electric balls at you that
bounce off the walls. Stay high
to dodge. Bat Launch: DB will
fire bats out of his cape. Get
behind him to dodge, but shoot
his face first. Thunder Smash:
DB will fire a bolt down that
splits into electric balls that
speed across the floor and
walls. Jump over them. Sonic
Wave: DB will fire sonic waves
from his cloak. He can be struck
at this time.

RELIC BOSS: Childre Inarabbita
2 layers
Element: Ice

Torpedo Launch: CI will launch
torpedoes at you. You can attack
him during this time. Frost
Dive: CI will climb the walls
and dive after you once
offscreen. Prepare to dodge and
reprise once he lands. Fragment
Bomb: CI will climb the walls
and leave fragment bombs that
rain debris, complicating
movements. Throw Blade: CI will
launch a large ice blade from
his head and ears. Jump to
dodge.

RELIC BOSS: Blazin Flizard
2 layers
Element: Fire

Frill Launch: BF will launch his
frill around the room. Look out
for it and attack. Fire Shot: BF
will launch three balls of fire
into the air. Dash away or get
on the wall to dodge. Spread
Fire: BF will spray fire around
the room. Dodge it by jumping
between the lines. Flamethrower:
BF will spray fire from his arm.
You can't shoot through it, but
you can nail him from behind.

RELIC BOSS: Pegasolta Eclair
2 layers
Element: Thunder

Thunder Beam: PE will fire a
thunder beam after charging up.
Dash under it on the lower
platform to dodge. Thunder Shot:
PE will fire two bolts down at
the ground. If both are on solid
ground, they'll fire an energy
bolt to link them together. You
can dodge this by jumping over
the first shot. Rush: PE will
rush you in a zig-zag pattern.
The third rush determines how to
dodge, but reprise as he does
it. Thunder Stab: PE will charge
and retreat, then rush you. You
can't attack him in this state.
Pounce: PE will try to pounce on
you. Dash away to dodge it.

RELIC BOSS: Sol Titanion
2 layers
Element: Fire

Twin Wing: ST will launch her
wings to try to damage you. Blue
zip towards your corner and then
rush up or back; red fly in a
curved pattern. Try to jump over
them. Flamethrower: ST will use
a flamethrower to set you on
fire. Dash underneath it when it
wanes. Fire Bomb: ST will set
fire bombs on the ground. You
can bust them through saber or
dashing buster attacks. Blast
Shot: ST will fire a ball of
energy at you which splits into
six parts. Jump over it to
dodge.

RELIC BOSS: Fenri Lunaedge
2 layers
Element: Ice

Ice Wave: FL will throw an ice
wave on the way up, two as he
goes to the other wall, and a
fourth on the way down. Tricky
to dodge. Roll: FL will roll up
and bounce around. Dash under
him. Frozen Image: FL will
create frosty afterimages of
himself to slash at you. You can
bust them with a powerful
attack. Ice Blade: FL will throw
two large blades on the floor
and ceiling. Go over to dodge
the first, then under for the
second.

RELIC BOSS: Noble Mandrago
2 layers

Regen: NM will recover health
between attacks. Attack her with
something hard afterwards. Seed
Shot: NM will fire seeds at you.
They do hurt, but what they can
grow into is a bit more
dangerous. Shoot them when they
do sprout. Burrow: NM will dig
into the ground. She spits honey
as she emerges. If you get
tagged, you become slippery and
attract bee mechaniloids. It can
be easily dodged. Spin: NM will
spin around. One variant is
ground only, the other goes up
to strike from above. Dash under
the second variant, but get up
on the wall to be safe from
both.

Now, for those of you who want
to fight Omega for kicks, or you
don't have the games to get the
Mysterious Rock, then head down
the path below the Transerver
door. Kill all enemies and
carefully traverse the path made
for you by the warp panels. On
the way there and on the way
back, you'll need HX to make
this a safer trip. It's by no
means safe, as the second half
is a spike pit. Once you're
through, prepare yourself.

RELIC BOSS: Omega
3 layers

Hell Combo: Omega will dash at
you, striking seven times on
contact. If he touches you on
Hard Mode with this, you're
dead. Dash-jump over him to
dodge this, or use PX's Shadow
Dash. Heaven Splitter: Omega
will perform a rising slash
similar to Zero's throughout the
X and Zero series. It's easy to
dodge if you see it coming.
Abyss Wave: Omega will jump and
perform a spinning slash,
emitting blades from the saber.
Get clear. Tri-Combo: The
infamous three-slash saber combo
is used here. Stay clear to
avoid it, because it will stop
you cold. Saber Smash: Omega
will smash the ground with his
saber, causing rocks to fall.
Look out. Shockwave: Omega will
strike the ground with his fist,
sending a shockwave at you.
Dodge the bolts by moving away
and jumping through the gaps.
Recover: Omega emits a column of
beams that restores his health.
The column is harmless, but this
is an annoyance. Buster Combo:
Omega will use Zero's combo from
X2 and X3 - two Buster shots
followed by a Saber blade.

However you slice it, Omega is
tough. It's best if you buster
him to death; HX, LX, and melee
ZX are a path to suicide unless
you use charged attacks in melee
and ranged attacks almost
exclusively the rest of the
time. He will recover a lot;
that's a given. Still, if you
persevere, you will beat a boss
that is almost as tough as
Serpent himself. Good luck!

Courier Requests [GIRO]

"Find the Flower"
Client: Michelle
Requisite: Model HX
Destination: Area A-1
Award: 200 EC

If you're doing this just after
you get HX, you can grab a Sub
Tank in A-2 on the way. Anyway,
go to the far left of A-1, climb
up, and go back right. If you
see a purple thorny bush, drop
on its left side and the
flower's right there. Bring it
to Michelle and go get your
money.

"Trim the Weeds"
Client: Congre
Requisite: Model HX, Aile only
Destination: Area C-2
Award: 200 EC

Congre was supposed to pull
those weeds atop the news
building in Area C-2, but he's
scared of heights. I tell ya,
he's a panophobe. In any case,
get there and chop the weeds up
for an easy 200 EC. Not bad for
a day's work.

"Find the Boy"
Client: Karen
Requisite: Model FX
Destination: Area G/1-G/2
Award: 400 EC

You need to find five kids. In
order, talk to Kenny in 7F, the
one in 5F, the one out the
window in 7F, the one in the
niche in B1, and then go outside
and scale the wall as HX to find
the last one. Once you find them
all, report the mission's
completion. Talk to Kenny (he's
where you found Oeillet during
the test) with armor and he'll
hand you the Frog chip! Not bad.

"Quiz Partner"/"Another Quiz"
Client: Yu Requisite: Model FX,
Vent only Destination: Area C-3
Award: 50 EC, Pink Crystal for
second

The questions are simple enough.
The name of the game is Dribble
Trouble, and the tree is an
Apple tree. You get a Pink
Crystal after that. Now, once
you rescue Jack from Hurricaune,
hand him the Pink Crystal for an
Ice Boots chip.

"Purify the Lakes"
Client: Thon
Requisite: Repel Prometheus
Destination: Area B-4
Award: 300 EC

There are boxes of neutralizer
scattered around the area.
Attacks will push them in, so
PX's weapons are superior in
this respect. Push them all in
for a clear.

"Find Mushroom" Client: Arcia
Requisite: Repel Prometheus,
Aile Only Destination: Area A-2
Award: 200 EC, Ice Boots chip

You'll find a mushroom shortly
after arrival. That's well
enough until you realize
Mushroom's the name of her BIRD!
That's right, Capcom pulled a
fast one on you! In any case,
make your way through towards
the Whirling 44s. There should
be a bird fluttering around that
region, so grab it when
possible. Bring it back for a
sweet 200 EC and an even sweeter
Ice Boots chip!

"Sending a Letter"/"Sending
Another Letter"/"Yet Another
Letter"/"Not Another
Letter"/"Guess What? A
Letter"/"One More
Letter"/"Deliver a Reply"
Client: Truite (Last one is
Melody) Requisite: Complete HX
Destination: Area C-2 (Last one
is Area X-1) Award: 100 EC + 50
cumulative per letter, 100 EC
for Melody's

All you have to do is deliver
letters to Melody to complete
the mission. It's short and a
bit annoying, but watch your
wallet fatten! For Melody's
letter, deliver it to Truite.

"Find the Pearl"
Client: Raven
Requisite: Complete LX
Destination: Area F-2
Award: 300 EC

In F-2, you'll find a bunch of
clams. The one with the Cold
Pearl is through a path only LX
can traverse. Once you get the
Cold Pearl, give it to Raven to
complete the mission.

"Find the Purse"
Client: Luca
Requisite: Complete LX
Destination: Area B-2
Award: 100 EC

You remember where E-17 was
found, right? It's right there.
Go get it.

"Gather the Screws"
Client: Anguille
Requisite: Complete FX
Destination: Area K-3/K-4/K-5
Award: 200 EC, Wind Boots chip

It's OK to come back from the
Transerver for this; that makes
it easier to do the job. You
can't get the Sub Tank this way,
but whatever. The screws are in
the following locations.

Behind the rusted blocks in K-4
(use FX to bust) Next to the
lava in K-4 In lava in K-3,
below where E-43 is found (use
PX to hang) Near a chain
launcher in K-5 Left side, top
of the shaft in K-5

Once you have them all, return
them to Anguille to earn your
fee and a Wind Boots chip!

"Find the Rock"
Client: Silure
Requisite: Complete FX
Destination: Area K-1
Award: 200 EC

Remember where E-22 is? It's
there. Get it and bring it back.

"Smash the Rock" Client: Silure
Requisite: Find the Special Rock
in the previous mission
Destination: Area E-4 Award: 300
EC, Extender Chip

You remember the Sub Tank in
Area E-4? Below that's a
crusher. You must have the power
on for this, so watch it. Hand
the rock to Oeillet and she'll
smash it open to reveal...
CERATANIUM! Grab it and bring it
back to Silure and he'll send
you an Extender Chip on top of
the 300 EC fee!

"Clean the Room" Client: Robert
Requisite: All Complete
Biometals Destination: Area C-1
Award: 200 EC

All you have to do is bounce the
balls into the bottom area. It's
a little harder than it looks,
but it's easy enough.

"Deliver the Aid Kit"
Client: Muguet
Requisite: Complete PX
Destination: Area L-1/L-2/L-3
Award: 150 EC

"Deliver the Energy Pack"
Client: Rose
Requisite: Complete PX
Destination: Area L-1/L-2/L-3
Award: 150 EC

All you have to do is bust
crates in Area L to find these
and bring them back. These two
are special in that they take
place in the same area,
alternate with each other
(Muguet->Rose->Muguet, et al),
are infinitely repeatable, and
at the end of the third run for
Rose, she'll add a Sub Tank on
top of that!

Upgrades and Goodies [ITEM]

Life Ups (None in Hard) D-1:
It's behind a sealed door. Drop
into the pit near the second
Capsule Shooter to find it. F-2:
Break the ice with FX, then
create a platform with LX. Ride
the platform to the top of the
water, then dash jump to the
Life Up. Alternately, you can
take damage and dash across the
spikes like a madman. I-5: Power
an unpowered platform with HX's
Whirlwind twice, riding it the
second time up. Alternately, you
can take damage and climb the
edge, but it's risky. J-1:
Through the down path, there's a
door leading to a room with a
spiked floor. Water dash over to
the Life Up.

Sub Tanks E-4: It's on the lower
level at the conveyor belts,
guarded by a Bolt Face. A-2:
It's high above the entrance
from A-1. You'll need HX to get
it. K-1: It's a good idea to
slow down the lava flow first.
Now rush into K-4 and run over
to the rusted blocks, smashing
them with FX before the lava
reaches you! Use PX to find a
secret door, then go down and
press the button. From there,
make your way back to the main
route and hide in the boss
shutters for a moment, then
retreat to K-5 and climb back
up. The door above the trolley's
been unlocked, so go through it
and traverse the boiling water
to get a Sub Tank. X-1: Deliver
three Energy Kits to Rose and
she'll add this in. It's the
only one you get in Hard, so
you'll have to use E Tanks to
substitute.

Upgrade Chips Absorber: Pester
Leonardo after rescuing him at
I-3. This chip neutralizes all
knockback. It's great for Aile!
Eraser: Pester Carrelet after
getting ZX. This allows you to
slice bullets out of the air.
It's a basic chip, but it's very
effective for what it does.
Extender: This extends the
period of time you remain
invulnerable after a hit. It's
not much, but every moment
counts. Featherweight: Bar will
hand this over if you pester him
after repelling Prometheus. It
will allow you to walk safely
across fragile surfaces. Frog:
Speak to Kenny with armor after
rescuing him during "Find the
Boy" and he'll cough it up. This
will increase traction on walls,
making you slide down slower. It
won't let you grip ice, however.
Ice Boots: Arcia gives this out
when you return Mushroom to her,
or Jack gives it to you in
exchange for a Pink Crystal.
This chip allows you to move
unimpaired on icy surfaces. You
can't grip icy walls, however.
Quick Charger: Once you have all
complete Biometals, pester
Fleuve to get this chip. It
reduces charge time in half.
Wind Boots: Return Anguille's
screws to get this chip. It
gives you added traction in the
face of strong winds. It doesn't
work when jumping, however.

Goodies Orange: Max gives you
one if you pester him. It
restores 4 life. Candy: A random
pickup from the crane game. It
restores 4 life. Bread: Lucia
gives some out when you pester
her. It restores 6 life. E Tank:
Cedre sells these for 200 EC. It
restores 32 life. W Tank: You
get this from abusing Prairie's
doll. It restores 32 energy to
all Biometal fragments. Smelling
Salts: Scombresoce sells these
for 10 EC. They dispel the
effects of the satellite arrays
in Area L.

Disk Database [DISK]

[B-01] Rayfly Where Found: B-2 -
After Rayfly, above the door
leading towards D-1. [B-02]
Omega Where Found: N-1 - Near
the bottom of the first area.
[B-03] Giga Aspis Where Found:
A-2 - It's literally right next
to the Transerver door. You
can't miss it. [B-04] Giro
(Model Z) Where Found: D-2 -
Outside the Transerver [B-05]
Serpent (1st Form) Where Found:
D-4 - Hanging in a chandelier.
[B-06] Serpent (2nd Form) Where
Found: D-5 - Inside a hidden
passage after the two Whirling
44s. [B-07] Purprill Where
Found: H-4 - Knock out the Carom
and Sky Boost up there. [B-08]
Hivolt Where Found: E-8 - It's
at the far end. [B-09]
Hurricaune Where Found: I-3 -
It's above the door leading back
to I-1. [B-10] Pandora Where
Found: M-3 - Outside the boss
shutters behind some foreground
debris. [B-11] Fistleo Where
Found: G-5 - Break the blocks
with FX and enter the hidden
room. [B-12] Flammole Where
Found: K-4 - Behind the three
lava columns [B-13] Protectos
Where Found: L-4 - Under a sled
where the bombs are falling.
[B-14] Prometheus Where Found:
O-2 - It's on the way. [B-15]
Lurerre Where Found: F-4 - In a
spike-guarded alcove. You'll
need a Glacier to get there.
[B-16] Leganchor Where Found:
J-5 - In the Energy Cannon
gauntlet.

[M-01] Diadrake Where Found: I-4
- First spiked path above the
unpowered lifts. [M-02] Orehawk
Where Found: M-1 - First door
past Orehawk. [M-03] Deluxe
Galleon Wing Where Found: O-1 -
In a gap beneath an Angle
Cannon. [M-04] King Flyer Where
Found: D-2 - After the first
King Flyer. [M-05] Crushpactor
Where Found: E-5 - Near the Life
XL pickup. [M-06] Steephinx
Where Found: I-5 - After killing
Steephinx, move to the right.
You can't miss it. [M-07]
Tentalamia Where Found: J-3 -
Navigate the spike pit to get
it. [M-08] Powmettaur Where
Found: H-3 - Behind the broken
Met helmet. [M-09] Lava Demon
Where Found: K-3 - To the left
of where you land.

[E-01] Eyeballoon Where Found:
A-1 - Through the door blocked
by the thorny bush near the
Miracle Flower. [E-02]
Frostybear Where Found: F-3 -
Break the ice shortly below the
computer room with FX, then find
it at the back of the cave.
[E-03] Angle Cannon Where Found:
I-1 - In the dark path above one
of the doors. [E-04] Web Bolt
Where Found: E-1 - Next to one
of the transformers. [E-05]
Rattrap Where Found: L-3 - Near
the end. [E-06] Energy Cannon
Where Found: D-3 - In a pit
between two Energy Cannons.
Don't fall all the way in!
[E-07] Shrimpstroke Where Found:
J-2 - Use HX to circumvent the
spike bed above the Galleon
Divers. [E-08] Electric Dart
Where Found: E-4 - Behind a Bolt
Face near the door to E-3.
[E-09] Auto Counter ECO Where
Found: G-2 - 1F inside. [E-10]
Auto Counter POP Where Found:
H-3 - Behind a Carom. [E-11]
Cutting Gyro Where Found: B-4 -
All the way at the far end.
[E-12] Capsule Shooter Where
Found: D-1 - In a pit near the
Life Up. [E-13] Galleon Wing
Where Found: I-5 - Beyond the
Life Up. [E-14] Galleon Shroud
Where Found: I-4 - Second spiked
path above the unpowered lifts.
[E-15] Galleon Diver Where
Found: F-2 - Near the start of
the underwater mini-maze. [E-16]
Galleon Burner Where Found: G-2
- Above 8F [E-17] Galleon Hunter
Where Found: B-2 - Above a pair
of Whirling 44s. [E-18] Galleon
Sledder Where Found: L-1 - Ride
a jet sled to the disk. [E-19]
Platform Cannon Where Found: D-1
- In a pit after the Life Up. Be
careful not to fall into the
abyss! [E-20] Carom Where Found:
A-4 - At the top of the area.
[E-21] Crickaleep Where Found:
E-4 - Behind a cluster of junk
below the door to E-6. [E-22]
Sci-sensor Where Found: K-1 -
Above the door to the geyser in
K-2, in a niche. [E-23] Spi-King
Where Found: I-5 - Behind an
active Platform Cannon platform.
[E-24] Springer Where Found: B-1
- Above the door leading to E-2.
[E-25] Chain Anchor Where Found:
K-5 - Halfway up the shaft
[E-26] Beanball Where Found: K-4
- Come back from the next area
to get it. [E-27] Sphenalauncher
Where Found: A-2 - Sky Boost and
use the Hanging Edge to climb up
to the ledge where this is
housed. [E-28] Tornado Fencer
Where Found: B-2 - It's due left
of the Transerver door in plain
sight. [E-29] Valkyraffe Where
Found: A-2 - Right behind the
Valkyraffe on the left after
exiting the Transerver. [E-30]
Pattrolaur Where Found: C-2 -
Outside the Transerver. [E-31]
Bambooloss Where Found: A-1 -
Use HX to cross the gap to the
right of where the game started.
[E-32] Bee Rockets Where Found:
G-5 - On the way across the
rooftops. [E-33] Whirling 38
Where Found: I-2 - Along the
spiked path on the high road.
[E-34] Whirling 44 Where Found:
I-2 - Take the low road, and
it's in the dark area. [E-35]
Fire Dart Where Found: K-3 -
It's in the spiked shaft. [E-36]
Buoybuoy Where Found: J-3 - Use
a Glacier to get up to it. It's
above a spiked wall. [E-37]
Shock Face Where Found: E-5 -
Break the blocks behind the Life
XL with FX to get it. [E-38]
Heat Face Where Found: G-1 -
Atop a building. Air dash and
hover from a nearby building and
scale the rest of the way
across. [E-39] Frozen Face Where
Found: F-1 - Behind a pair of
bustable crates near the start.
[E-40] Fly Chopper Where Found:
D-2 - After the first King
Flyer. [E-41] Batty Where Found:
L-2 - Ride another sled to the
platform. [E-42] Presto Cannon
Where Found: O-1 - It's on the
way. [E-43] Hover Cannon Where
Found: K-3 - It's atop a
platform over the lava. [E-44]
Bora Bora Where Found: F-2 -
Near the end of the underwater
mini-maze. [E-45] Marine General
Where Found: F-4 - Lower half of
the area, beyond metal boxes.
Watch the spikes! [E-46]
Mechadragon Where Found: A-3 -
Atop a branch on the way [E-47]
Remettaur Where Found: H-1 -
Hanging from a balloon. [E-48]
Moth Queen Where Found: F-3 -
Next to the door leading to the
Crushpactor. [E-49] Releaf Where
Found: C-3 - It's above the
entrance. [E-50] Warp Prism
Where Found: M-1 - Through the
door above the entrance to M-2.

[O-01] Hareng Where Found: X-1 -
L2, third door. [O-02] Anguille
Where Found: X-1 - It's to the
left of the Transerver door.
[O-03] Operators Where Found:
X-2 - In the command center.
[O-04] Guardians Where Found:
X-1 - L2, second door. [O-05]
Carrelet Where Found: X-1 - L2,
first door. [O-06] Congre Where
Found: X-1 - L4, first door.
[O-07] Sardine Where Found: X-1
- L1, next to the boy. [O-08]
Silure Where Found: X-1 - It's
to the right of the Transerver
door. [O-09] Giro Where Found:
A-1 - Left from the starting
point, you'll find this in a
small tunnel you can crawl into.
[O-10] Scombresoce Where Found:
X-1 - L3, all the way to the
right. [O-11] Cedre Where Found:
X-3 - In the engine room. [O-12]
Serpent Where Found: D-2 - Near
Slither Inc. [O-13] Truite Where
Found: X-1 - It's right next to
the elevator on L4. [O-14] Thon
Where Found: X-1 - It's on deck.
[O-15] Fleuve Where Found: X-1 -
It's in the lab. [O-16] Prairie
Where Found: X-2 - It's in
Prairie's room. [O-17] Stuffed
Animal Where Found: C-2 - Dash-
jump, air-dash, and hover down
to the Game and Data building to
get it. [O-18] Townspeople Where
Found: C-2 - Through a path in
the news station. [O-19] Muguet
Where Found: X-1 - L4, second
door. [O-20] Rose Where Found:
X-1 - It's at the end of L4.

Prairie's Report [CIEL]

WARNING: All of this is Spoiler
material for the Zero and ZX
series! Read at your own peril!

Aile

-] Fistleo hints in his
 conversation that the Mavericks
 spared Aile on purpose.
-] Aile tells Purprill that this
 park is where her memories are
 buried.
-] Prometheus claims that Aile
 is part of their game - that
 she's one of them.
-] Prairie mentions that her
 orders were to protect the
 survivors of the
Maverick raids - reasons for
those orders became apparent
when she saw Giro transform for
the first time.
-] The data in Aile's story goes
 into detail on how Serpent went
 crazy after
prolonged exposure to Model W.
They say he was a survivor of a
Maverick raid, like Vent, Aile,
and Giro.
-] The final report left behind
 by Sis indicates that the
 "chosen ones" have
the ability to control the
Biometal - and that the ones who
can control Models X and Z also
have the power to unleash Model
W.
-] Prometheus and Pandora claim
 that Mega Men - the "chosen
 ones", mind you -
must fight until one is left
standing, and that that one has
the right to rule the world.
-] Serpent's last words indicate
 that the blood of Model W's
 creator runs in
her veins.

Vent

-] Fistleo says that Serpent
 volunteered to give him power
 for helping in his
game.
-] Purprill explains to Vent
 that he was another Maverick in
 the raid ten years
ago until Serpent modified him.
-] Prometheus claims that the
 creator of the Biometal you use
 knew what she was
doing - Prairie knows this
person as her sister.
-] Prairie talks to Vent in
 detail about the wars of the
 past, how her sister
was a scientist who protected
them when nobody else would.
-] The final report left behind
 by Sis is a retelling of the
 story regarding
Biometal W and the Ragnarok
crisis.
-] Prometheus and Pandora claim
 to be the voice of Model W.
-] Serpent explains that the
 victims of the Maverick raid
 were used as
Cyber-elves to help power Model
W, like the victims of the
detainee camp at Area I.

Coincidence? I think not! These
events link right to the Mega
Man Zero series - let's start
with the basics. "Sis", as
Prairie calls her, is actually
Dr. Ciel. Near the climax of the
war, the madman behind Model W -
Dr. Weil - had the space station
Ragnarok built. Dr. Weil fused
with Ragnarok, but lost a fight
to Zero. The shattered remains
of Ragnarok achieving
atmospheric re-entry are a
memory Prairie refuses to
surrender. Biometal Model W is
actually Weil's consciousness
sealed within the remains of
Ragnarok. It seems the bastard
avoided death yet again.

In the aftermath of the war,
Ciel founded the Guardians to
root out the source of the
Maverick program and destroy it.
During this time, she conducted
research on a form of conscious
material she would coin
"Biometal". She was accompanied
by members of the former
resistance movement against Neo
Arcadia and some volunteers, one
of which was Serpent. During
research on Biometal Model W,
Serpent was overcome with a
desire for power and slaughtered
the entire recon unit. In
response, Ciel used her research
and the remains of the four X
Guardians to create Biometals F,
H, L, and P, but she didn't have
samples or remains of X or Zero,
so she made Biometals X and Z
from her research on Model W;
anyone who can use either X or Z
can also use W.

Since Ciel was a conventional
human, she passed on, either KIA
or through the passage of time.
Prairie took over in her place
to continue the fight. To blend
in with the Reploids of today
with their finite lifespans,
Prairie likely changed her
appearance and name. Now think,
how many Reploids at the time
carry around dolls, especially
those made by Dr. Ciel? The
answer is simple: Alouette.

From what is gathered, Purprill
may have been in charge of the
Mavericks that attacked the park
ten years ago, when Vent/Aile
lost their parents. The
Mavericks involved in the raids
at Area H may have been made
into Pseudoroids to amplify
their powers, while the spirits
of the victims - the Cyber-elves
- were kept as food for Model
W.. The Pseudoroids all tie into
Project Haven; the grand plan of
Model W to resurrect itself.
While Serpent was busy with his
own dig into the ruins, the
Pseudoroids would cause calamity
in other regions. The data for
the Serpent Report was split
between Lurerre and Leganchor so
people wouldn't learn the truth
about his insanity; Hurricaune
would round up civilians and
give them grave fear before
killing them; Cyber-elves are
made from the deaths of Reploids
and now modified Humanoids.
Hivolt would regulate the flow
of Cyber-elves into the Slither
Inc. head office for use with
Model W. Purprill would deny
access to the lab at Area L via
the amusement park at Area H
while Protectos would steal the
data regarding Model W and
Ciel's final message. Flammole
would be given orders to dig at
a falsified location to agitate
the volcano, and Fistleo would
cause havoc to search out other
Mega Men. When you put it all
into perspective, the whole
thing is one elaborate plan by
Model W - or, should we say, Dr.
Weil - to become exultant and
manifest a new body. Prometheus
and Pandora are simply there to
spread this message of
destruction, to find vessels
suitable for such a purpose.


In the ancient days, before the
Maverick Wars, there were two
scientists, Dr. Thomas Light and
Dr. Albert Wily. Both were
genius robotics experts in their
time, but while Tom used his
genius to better humanity, Al
used his to attempt to conquer
the world. The advanced robot,
Rock, was modified into Mega Man
to combat robots built by Tom
that Wily altered. After the
first wave, Wily made more
dangerous robots in an attempt
to destroy Mega Man. One of his
own creations, Bass, went rogue
when he realized Wily was using
him as a tool for his own glory.
In their final days, the two
geniuses built their last
machines; Tom's was the alpha
Reploid, X. Wily's final
creation was Zero, based off the
stolen data on X's schematics.
Wily issued Zero a viral program
that, if Wily were to perish,
would cause Zero to awaken and
eradicate all life from the
world as one last twisted act of
revenge.


Later, Dr. Cain awakened X and
used his data to create the
first Reploids. However, one
Reploid went Maverick and killed
three humans before it was
destroyed. The Maverick Hunters
were established from there on
out, and Sigma took charge
during this time. Sigma
valiantly fought Mavericks until
he was dispatched to fight a red
Maverick that killed anything in
sight - Zero. During the battle,
Sigma destroyed Zero and
contracted the Maverick code
into himself. Zero was repaired
by Dr. Cain during this time.
Sigma went Maverick himself and
broke away, taking a majority of
the Reploids with him. The
recommissioned Zero fought
alongside X many times,
destroying Sigma as he emerged
time and again. During this
time, Dr. Cain suffered from
harsh mental degeneration, and
required an implant to keep from
suffering total brain death.
Some time after he got the
implant, he contracted the
Maverick program himself. He
retreated to keep himself from
going mad in the public scene
while the program began to
spread into his organic brain.
And it became his doom.

In the aftermath of the Eurasia
and Gate incidents, the
scientists of the time designed
the Cyber-elves to help contain
the Maverick outbreak. One such
Cyber-elf, the Mother Elf, was
used to neutralize the program
in all Reploids. Dr. Cain - who
now emerged under the name Dr.
Weil - took control of the
Mother Elf and reprogrammed her,
transforming her into the Dark
Elf. Dr. Weil used his retained
genius to fully repair Zero's
old body - the one that was
destroyed after the Eurasia
incident - and give it a new
consciousness, Omega. Weil then
used the Dark Elf to control the
world's Reploids, with only X
and Zero capable of effectively
fighting back. This became known
as the Elf Wars, and decimated
75% of the world's population in
its flames. Omega was horribly
damaged, and Weil was executed,
his mind transferred into an
artificial prison and launched
up into space with Omega's
remains. The Dark Elf's location
was unknown, and the only person
capable of understanding it was
Zero. Zero, believing he may
still lose himself to the
Maverick program, had himself
sealed away for a whole century,
leaving X to deal with this
threat alone.


X constructed the utopian
domain, Neo Arcadia, and four
Guardians were made from his DNA
program - the Sage Guardian,
Harpuia; the Fairy Guardian,
Leviathan; the Fighting
Guardian, Fefnir; and the Shadow
Guardian, Phantom. They ruled
Neo Arcadia with compassion
towards humanity until the Dark
Elf returned, remotely
controlled by Dr. Weil. The
fighting was quelled, but
realizing the danger the Dark
Elf possessed, X sacrificed his
body to seal it away and watched
from beyond as a Cyber-elf. The
budding genius, Dr. Ciel, made a
copy body for X to move into,
but it activated of its own
volition - whether Copy X was
self-aware or a puppet of Weil
from his orbital detention
center is unknown, but Copy X
behaved like a tyrant compared
to the original; the fact that
an energy crisis had appeared
made the situation no better for
the Reploids of Neo Arcadia. Dr.
Ciel organized the Resistance
from the Reploids Copy X decreed
as Mavericks, but they continued
to lose battle after battle
until Ciel entered the forbidden
land and her Cyber-elf, Passy,
awoke Zero from his stasis.

Zero then fought to protect the
Reploids in the Resistance, and
killed both Phantom and Copy X
while the Resistance fled to a
base removed from Neo Arcadia.
Elpizo took charge and led
Operation "Righteous Strike"
which ended in disaster. It was
during this time that Elpizo
became tempted by the Baby
Elves, Crea and Prea, and sought
to awaken the Dark Elf. He
accomplished this, destroyed X's
body, and lost himself to the
Dark Elf in the aftermath,
eventually being killed at
Zero's hands. With the Dark Elf
loose, Dr. Weil intentionally
crashed his prison into the snow
fields, and Ciel and Zero went
to investigate.

Onboard the wrecked craft was
the battle reploid Omega, which
made a mess of both Leviathan
and Fefnir and, later, Harpuia.
Weil then used a restored Copy X
to rule Neo Arcadia with an iron
fist, seizing the Dark Elf with
Omega and seizing the nation
after machinating a
confrontation between Zero and
Copy X. During this time, X had
informed Harpuia of the true
nature of this battle, while
Phantom spread the news to the
Leviathan and Fefnir. In the
end, all three Guardians were
restored, and they helped to
contain Omega as the Dark Elf's
program began to decay, the
routines added by Weil going
first. With Omega destroyed, the
Mother Elf died off rapidly.

Weil took complete control over
Neo Arcadia, having everyone who
opposed his iron-fisted regime
destroyed in as swift a manner
as possible. Many humans fled
the once utopian city, moving in
flocks towards areas where they
hoped they could find salvation.
One such group, led by the rogue
reporter Neige, fled to Area
Zero. Dr. Weil learned that Area
Zero - the site in the Maverick
Wars that the space colony
Eurasia crashed - was a domain
outside his influence, and one
that signified hope for humanity
to escape his sovereign
authority, so he sent the
Einherjar and Craft to endanger
it while he built the space
satellite, Ragnarok, to
annihilate all life on earth,
including Area Zero. The
Einherjar were defeated by Zero,
and in his last moments Craft
destroyed the cannon control
systems to keep Weil from firing
it again. Frustrated, Weil
changed the orbit path so it
would descend on a collision
course with Area Zero. Zero
forced his way onboard and
fought Weil to the end. As
Ragnarok broke apart, it fell
into the atmosphere and landed
in a concentrated plot near Area
Zero. And while Zero was
destroyed from re-entry, enough
of Weil remained so it could
oversee the aberrations that
plague the world. Out of Zero's
remains whatever machines were
loyal to Weil managed to make a
new Omega, but it wouldn't
animate until it came fully
online; eventually, there was no
need for it to animate, and it
was left in the void of the
Ragnarok ruins without soul or
purpose.

While this may seem like
conjecture, much of it is based
on actual records. It is but one
way to view history. What is
reality? That is for you to
decide.


World Map [MAPS]

DMNO

    J-4                         
   /   \                        
J-5 J-2 H-4--H-3 L-1 L-3
   \   /   \  +       + |      \
    J-3     J-1----\    |       
        |    |        |
N-1     M-2        |     \      
   *   /   \   /--A-4     A-3---
    M-3     M-1      \   /      
   A-1                   F-4
K-4     K-2        +     \   *  
*  \   /   \   /--C-3     A-2   
    K-3     K-1      \   /   \  
 \   /          C-1     B-1     
 K-5      *   /   *   /   \   /
      C-2     B-2     B-3
    /   +   /
    /     D-1
  /         \               *
E-1           D-2     O-1---O-2
      \         /   *   /
   E-3     E-2   D-4     D-3
    \   /         \       \
    E-4           D-5     \
   /   \                   \
E-6     E-5                 G-1
     /                   /
   E-7                 G-2      
  /   *               /   \     
  E-8     I-1         G-4     G-
   /   \           \            
   |     I-2         G-5        
     |    /   \           *
   | I-4     I-5
   |    \   /
   \----I-3*

+: Terminal (Between two areas
 indicates that they connect)
*: Transerver (Between two areas
 indicates that they connect)
