******************************
FAQ/Walkthrough
Rockman Exe 5 Team of Blues
Rockman Exe 5 Team of Colonel
Rockman Exe 5 DS Twin Leaders
Version 0.2
By GiroroGochou
g66ryu@yahoo.com
******************************

Copyright 2008-2009 George Ryu

This may not be reproduced under
any circumstances except for
personal, private use. It may
not be placed on any web site or
otherwise distributed publicly
without advance written
permission. Use of this guide on
any other web site or as a part
of any public display is
strictly prohibited, and a
violation of copyright.

This FAQ/Walkthrough can only
appear on the following site(s):

- http://www.gamefaqs.com
- http://www.neoseeker.com
- http://www.supercheats.com

******************
Table of Contents
******************

In order to navigate through
this guide just use Ctrl + F,
which means you press ctrl + F
in your browser or word
processer. This will bring up
the search menu, then enter the
letters to the right of the
section that you're looking for.

1. Introduction Int

2.     a. Story                 
 b. Characters Chrac c. Controls
 Cntrl

3. Soul Unison Solz

4. Walkthrough Wlkthru

 a. Scenario 1 Sce1 b. Liberate
 Mission 1 Lbm1 c. Scenario 2
 Sce2 d. Liberate Mission 2 Lbm2
 e. Scenario 3 Sce3 f. Liberate
 Mission 3 Lbm3 g. Scenario 4
 Sce4 h. Liberate Mission 4 Lbm4
 i. Scenario 5 Sce5
 j. Liberate Mission 5 Lbm5 k.
 Scenario 6 Sce6 l. Liberate
 Mission 6 Lbm6 m. Scenario 7
 Sce7

5. Title Screen Marks Tsmk

6. After Scenario Afsc

 a. Liberate Mission 7 Lbm7 b.
 Nebula Hole Area 2 Nha2 c.
 Liberate Mission 8 Lbm8 d.
 Nebula Hole Area 4 Nha4 e.
 Liberate Mission 9 Lbm9 f.
 Nebula Hole Area 6 Nha6

7. SP/DS Deletion Spds

8. Lord of Chaos Locs

9. Power Up Items Powi

10. Shops                       

 a. Higureya's Order Service
 Hosv

11. Chips                       

 a. Standard Chips SChps b.
 Mega-Class Chips MChps c. Giga-
 Class Chips GChps

12. Program Advances PAz

13. NaviCust Nvcu

14. Boss Strategies BossS

15. Translation Tranl

16. Frequently Asked Questions
    FAQz

17. Version History Vhis

18. What's Next Wnxt

19. Thanks/Credits T/Cre

================================
1.  Introduction                
================================

Welcome to my Guide for Rockman
Exe 5 Team of Blues/Team of
Colonel/DS Twin Leaders, or
called in English Megaman Battle
Network 5 Red Team Protoman/Team
Colonel/DS Twin Leaders. This
Guide might has some spoilers.
If you never played this series,
you are missing out on one of
the best series in history. I'm
telling you this. I'm using a
Japanese version of the game, so
from here and on I'm going to
refer to Characters and Chip
names in Japanese. There is a
translation page at the bottom
if you're using an English
version. And I haven't confirmed
if some of the mystery data's
are changed in the JP version
and the EG version. If you know
the answer to this please tell
me and I'll put your name in the
Credits section. This guide is
still in it's first draft. So
it'll probably have tons of
information that's not complete.
Feel free to E-mail me if you
know something, or have some
requests. I want this guide to
be the best on the planet.

================================
2.     a. Story                 
================================

The year is 200X... Every
Electric device is managed by
the network... But that
convenience held a big
problem... The increasing of
Computer viruses, and Network
crimes. In the Kagakushou Virus
Research lab, researchers are
continuing working hard everyday
to counter this problem. And...

================================
2.     b. Characters            
================================

////////////////////////////////
/------------------------------G
////////////////////////////////

*************
Hikari Netto
*************

Navi: Rockman

He's the main character that you
control. He lives in Densan
City. And he goes to Akihara
Elementary. He's in 5th grade.
He's not that smart, but his
net-battling is top notch.

**************
Sakurai Meiru
**************

Navi: Roll

She's your neighbor. She's
lively, and kind. You'll have to
do some small jobs for her.

*************
Ooyama Dekao
*************

Navi: Gutsman

A very good friend of Netto.
He'll put his life on the line
for his friends. But his net-
battling isn't impressive at
all.

*****************
Ayanokouji Yaito
*****************

Navi: Glide

She's 8, and she's already in
5th grade. And she's a rich
spoiled brat.

////////////////////////////////
/-------------------------------
////////////////////////////////

********
Rockman
********

Operator: Hikari Netto

The other main character that
you control. He's like a big
brother of Netto. He's a
sincere, and honest navi. He has
some secrets lurking in him.

*****
Roll
*****

Operator: Sakurai Meiru

She's kind like Meiru. And she
doesn't like fighting.

********
Gutsman
********

Operator: Ooyama Dekao

A Power model Navi. And he has a
lot of similarity with Dekao.

******
Glide
******

Operator: Ayanokouji Yaito

He is a gentleman. He uses
gorgeous, and rare chips to
fight, and win battles.

////////////////////////////////
/---------------------------Team
////////////////////////////////

***************
Ijyuuiin Enzan
***************

Navi: Blues

**************
Tesla Magnets
**************

Navi: Magnetman

****************
Charlie Airstar
****************

Navi: Gyroman

********************
Rokushakudama Nenji
********************

Navi: Napalmman

******
Raika
******

Navi: Searchman

*********
Jasumine
*********

Navi: Medi

////////////////////////////////
/----------------------------Tea
////////////////////////////////

******
Blues
******

Operator: Ijyuuiin Enzan

**********
Magnetman
**********

Operator: Tesla Magnets

********
Gyroman
********

Operator: Charlie Airstar

**********
Napalmman
**********

Operator: Rokushakudama Nenji

**********
Searchman
**********

Operator: Raika

*****
Medi
*****

Operator: Jasumine

////////////////////////////////
/---------------------------Team
of Colonel Members--------------
------------/
////////////////////////////////

*******
Barrel
*******

Navi: Colonel

***************
Princess Pride
***************

Navi: Knightman

************
Dark Miyabi
************

Navi: Shadowman

******
Dingo
******

Navi: Tomahawkman

*****************
Higure Yamitarou
*****************

Navi: Numberman

****************
Midorikawa Kero
****************

Navi: Toadman

////////////////////////////////
/----------------------------Tea
////////////////////////////////

********
Colonel
********

Operator: Barrel

**********
Knightman
**********

Operator: Princess Pride

**********
Shadowman
**********

Operator: Dark Miyabi

************
Tomahawkman
************

Operator: Dingo

**********
Numberman
**********

Operator: Higure Yamitarou

********
Toadman
********

Opertator: Midorikawa Kero

////////////////////////////////
/-----------------------------Ot
////////////////////////////////

****************
Hikari Yuichiro
****************

He created Net navis. And he's
also Netto's Dad.

**************
Hikari Haruka
**************

She takes care of the house when
Yuichiro's not home. And she's
also Netto's Mom. In Rockman Exe
Battle Chip GP she has a Normal
Navi.

*******
Meijin
*******


////////////////////////////////
/-------------------------------
////////////////////////////////

********



Footman
********

***********
Swallowman
***********

////////////////////////////////
/----------------------------Ene
////////////////////////////////

*******
Nebula
*******

**********
Dr. Regal
**********

Navi: Laserman

He's a famous scientist, but
behind that face is a leader of
Nebula.

////////////////////////////////
/-------------------------------
////////////////////////////////

************
Blizzardman
************

*********
Shademan
*********

He's an Executive of Nebula, and
collects Dark Chips. He sucks on
other navis to gain energy.

*********
Cloudman
*********

*********
Cosmoman
*********

******
Forte
******

A navi that lurks deep in the
Ura-Internet. His power is
feared by everyone. He desires
more power to become the
strongest navi. He has a grudge
against human beings.

================================
2.     c. Controls              
================================

--------------
Not in Battle
--------------

A button - Talk to others, and
Examine things.

B button   - Hold to run.

D pad      - Move.

L trigger - Talk to
Netto/Rockman.

R trigger - Plug-in or Plug-out.

Start      - Go to Menu.

Select - During Cut-Scenes you
can skip it.

--------------
Menu Screen
--------------

A button   - Select the option.

B button   - Go back.

D-Pad      - Move selection.

R trigger - In the Chip Folder,
or Data Library. Press to go
down one page.

L trigger - In the Chip Folder,
or Data Libraby. Press to go up
one page.

Start      - Go back.

Select - In Chip Folder, and
Data Library. Orders in what
ever order you
   want.

--------------
In Battle
--------------

A button   - Use Battle Chips.

B button   - Buster.

D-Pad - Move Rockman in Battle.

L trigger - When the gauge is
full you can go to the custom
screen.

R trigger - When the gauge is
full you can go to the custom
screen.

Start      - Pause.

Select     - Nothing.

--------------
Custom Screen
--------------

A button   - Select Battle chip.

B button - Cancel last Battle
chip selected.

D-Pad      - Move cursor.

L trigger  - Nothing.

R trigger - Information on chip.

Start - Automatically go to OK.

Select - Go to Battle Screen
without the Custom Screen.

================================
3.  Soul Unison                 
================================

Soul Unison is the power Rockman
gets from other Navis such as
Colonel and Blues. You can use
their powers that they use
during battle. Some Souls are
powerful enough to end a battle
without using any chips. There
are 6 Souls in each Version.

-----------------------
How to use Soul Unison
-----------------------

First off, you have to beat the
certain Navi to get the Soul.
When you do you must sacrifice a
chip that has the same attribute
as that Navi. Then you press the
Unison Button on the Custom
Screen to activate it. Oh just
so you know you can't use a Soul
twice in the same battle. Lets
say you used Gyro Soul and you
changed to Medi Soul. You can't
use Gyro Soul for the rest of
the battle, get it?

--------------------------------
1. Choosing the Sacrificing Chip
--------------------------------

Again you must choose a Chip
that has the same attribute or
element of that Navi. One more
thing, you can't sacrifice a
Regular Chip. Why? I don't know.
I guess it'll make things easier
for you. Oh one last thing, when
you sacrifice a chip it's not
permanently sacrificed. It's
only for that batle. You still
get to keep that chip after the
battle is over.

***************************
Team of Blues Soul Unisons
***************************

Blues Soul    - Sword Chips
Magnet Soul   - Elec Chips
Gyro Soul     - Wind Chips
Napalm Soul   - Fire Chips
Search Soul   - Lock On Chips
Medi Soul     - Recovery Chips

*****************************
Team of Colonel Soul Unisons
*****************************

Colonel Soul - Obstacle Chips
Knight Soul - Break Chips Shadow
Soul - Invisible Chips Tomahawk
Soul - Wood Chips Number Soul -
Adding/Subtracting Chips Toad
Soul - Aqua Chips

------------------------------
2. Activating the Soul Unison
------------------------------

When you choose the Unison Chip
in the Custom Screen, when you
start your Turn in battle you
will automatically activate Soul
Unison. You cannot choose the
Unison Chip if Rockman is in
Fear or Dark.

You can't Full Synchro in Soul
Unison.

-----------
3. 3 Turns
-----------

When 3 Turns pass you will
automatically change back to
normal. So choosing when to use
the Soul Unison is crucial. The
turns that you have with that
Soul will be shown right next to
Rockman's Mind Window. If you're
desperate you don't have to
press the L or R trigger to open
the Custom Screen. You can fight
with your Charge Shots.

================================
4.  Walkthrough                 
================================

This walkthrough should get you
to the end. I tried to make it
easy to navigate, by putting
important locations before what
you do. Like this...

------------
Akiharachou
------------

Then I number the things you do
for example...

1) Talk to your friends.
2) You get an E-mail from
   Enzan/Barrel.

Cut-Scene

And sometimes, if you're in a
place like Kagakushou Lobby, and
you have to go to the Luxurious
Ship Platform I will put...

Kagakushou Lobby >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Luxurious Ship
Platform

And with Rockman, you're in
Akihara Area 1 and you have to
go to End Area 1 I'll put...

Akihara Area 1 >>> Akihara Area
2 >>> Akihara Area 3 >>> Oran
Isle Area 1 >>> Oran Isle Area 2
>>> End Area 1

I'll put (Note:) after something
if I think you should do that.
But that will only help you for
things such as Boss Fights. It's
not necessary. If you want to
just beat the game with your
skill then skip the Notes.

Most of the time I'll be giving
you directions using North,
South, East and West. Know your
compass. I'll sometimes give you
South-West. Do you know how to
read this or which way to go?
Here's a diagram for you people
who don't.

      North  North  North
      West \   |   / East
            \  |  /
             \ | /
      West-----|------East
             / | \
            /  |  \
      South/   |   \South
      West   South   East

Now lets begin with this long
walkthrough.

================================
4.     a. Scenario 1            
================================

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Go downstirs.

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Go talk to your mom.

You get the Stu Recipe.

2) Head upstairs to your room.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In to your Computer.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

Cut-Scene

***********************
Virus Busting Tutorial
***********************

1) Follow the instructions and
   learn how to play.
2) After the tutorial head to
   the warp on the other side.

---------------
Akihara Area 1
---------------

1) Follow the Green Path until
   you get to a turn.
2) Head to the left to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Mini Energy.
3) Now follow the Green Path
   passing the cube, taking a
   turn, and stop at the next
   turn.
4) Follow the small path to the
   right to get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains
   800 Zennys.
5) Now go back to the Green Path
   and follow to the end to get
   to Akihara Area 2.

---------------
Akihara Area 2
---------------

1) Follow the Green Path until
   you get to the 2nd big turn.
2) Head to the left small path
   and get the Blue Mystery Data
   you see that contains a Copy
   Damage *.
3) Head back to the Green Path
   and follow it until you get
   to a big open area.
4) Take the small path and
   follow it to a split.
5) Follow the path to the left
   to get to your first Net
   Merchant.
6) Buy a HP Memory for 1000
   Zennys.
7) Head back to the split.
8) Take the other path to a
   warp.
9) Head through the warp.

-------------
Kitchen Comp
-------------

1) Talk to the Red Navi.
2) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Head downstairs.

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Talk to your mom.

Cut-Scene

2) Head outside.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to the pink house right
   next to your house.

--------------
Meiru's House
--------------

1) Talk to Meiru.
2) Head outside.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head North.
2) Head into the big house.

--------------
Yaito's House
--------------

1) Talk to Yaito.
2) Head to the Fireplace.
3) Turn the switch on.
4) Leave.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head straight.
2) Enter the Blue House.

--------------
Dekao's House
--------------

1) Talk to Dekao.
2) Get out.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to the entrance to the
   Metro.(It's the small
   building with steps right by
   Dekao's House)

Cut-Scene

--------------------
Front of Kagakushou
--------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head up a set of stairs and
   then another.
2) Enter the big building.

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Head up the stairs.
2) Head up the stairs to the
   North-East.
3) Then the next stairs.
4) Head to the vending machine.
5) Examine the stuff right next
   to it to get a Regular Up +1.
6) Enter the elevator to the
   North.

-----------------
Dad's Laboratory
-----------------

Cut-Scene

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Akihara Area 2.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2

---------------
Akihara Area 2
---------------

1) Head to the big open area.
2) Save.
3) Talk to the Heel Navi.

*******
Battle
*******

4) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Head downstairs.

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Talk to your mom.
2) Head outside.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to the Metro.
2) Talk to Meiru.

You get Roll R and Meiru's P
Code. Put the Chip in your
folder.

3) Head to Kagakushou.

--------------------
Front of Kagakushou
--------------------

1) Head inside the building.

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Head up the stairs.
2) Then the next one.

Cut-Scene

3) Head to your Dad's
   Laboratory.

-----------------
Dad's Laboratory
-----------------

Cut-Scene

1) Examine your Dad's Desk.

You get your Dad's ID Card.

2) Head to the Kagakushou Lobby.

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Head to the door you're
   trying to open.
2) Open it with your Dad's ID
   Card.
3) Head in.

--------------------
Main Operating Room
--------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Plug-In to the Main System
   Comp.

-------------------
Main System Comp 1
-------------------

Cut-Scene

Your first puzzle area of the
game. To get through this area
you must solve puzzles in order
to break the security. This area
has many securities, so it may
get you frustrasted. Just to
make thigs harder, you also have
a number of times you can move a
block, so think carefully. There
are Program Dudes right next to
the blocks for hints. These are
the Japanese solutions. I don't
have the English versions of the
answers, so anyone that has the
answers can E-mail me. Your name
will be credited.

1) Just follow the path until
   you get to some blocks with
   numbers on it.
2) Talk to the Program Dude. The
   blocks should be lined as
   276.
3) Now arrange it as 762.
4) Follow the path to the very
   end. Ignore the one path in
   the middle for now.
5) You should get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Thunder Ball P.
6) Now head back to the path you
   didn't take.
7) Follow the path to the North-
   East to get to the next
   puzzle.
8) The blocks should say Ko I N.
   Talk to the Program Dude for
   the hint.
9) Switch the Ko and I. Now it
   should say I Ko N.
10)Take the next turn, and then
   take the top path to an open
   area.
11)When you get to a split, take
   the left path.
12)You should get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   HP Memory.
13)Head back to the split and
   take the other path.
14)You should now be at a place
   with 6 blocks. 3 on each
   side. The one on the left is
   Ki Sa Ta. The other is U Gi
   Nu.
15)Talk to the Program Dude.
   Switch the Gi and Sa. Then
   the Gi with Nu. Then the Ki
   and Ta.
16)Follow the Ta Nu Ki path to a
   switch.
17)Step on it.
18)Head to the U Sa Gi path and
   enter Main System Comp 2.

-------------------
Main System Comp 2
-------------------

1) Follow the path to another
   puzzle.
2) Talk to the Prgram Dudes to
   get a hint.
3) The blocks should look like
   Ni ya Mu N and No Mi Bo Ki.
   Switch the Mu with Ki. Then
   Ki with Ni. Ni with No. And
   Mi with No.
4) Follow the Mi Ni Bo Mu path
   to a switch.
5) Step on it and head back to
   the places with the blocks.
6) Take the Ki ya No N path.
7) Follow the path to another
   puzzle.
8) The block should say from the
   left, Bi Ma Te, Gi Yu Ta, and
   Mi Bu Ko. Talk to the Program
   Dude to get hints.
9) Switch the Bi with Mi, Gi
   with Ma, Ma with Bi, Ta with
   Ko, the Ko with Mi.
10)Take the Mi Gi Te path and
   step on the switch.
11)Take the Ma Bu Ta path and
   step on the switch.
12)Take the Ko Yu Bi path.
   Ignore the Transporter for
   now and follow the path to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Full Energy.
13)Take the Transporter now.
14)Take the next Transporter.
15)Follow the path and grab the
   Blue Mystery Data with a
   Spread Gun E on the way.
16)Follow the path to the last
   puzzle with the #s 12345.
17)Talk to the Program Dude.

Cut-Scene

18)Plug-Out.

--------------------
Main Operating Room
--------------------

1) Head to your Dad's
   Laboratory.

Main Operating Room >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Dad's
Laboratory

-----------------
Dad's Laboratory
-----------------

1) Examine the tables by the
   sofa.

You get the Worker's Memo.

Cut-Scene

-------------------
Main System Comp 2
-------------------

1) Examine the memo if you
   haven't and move the blocks.
2) Switch 5 with 1, 2 with 3,
   and then 4 with 1.
3) Save.
4) Head up the path.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Blues
********************************

HP: 300
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: None
Reward: On with the Story

There's nothing really to say.
The first boss is always easy.
Just aim carefully because Blues
moves a lot.

********************************
Boss- Blues
********************************

********************************
Boss- Colonel
********************************

HP: 400
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: None
Reward: On with the Story

There's nothing really to say.
The first boss is always easy.
Don't get hit by the Colonel
Cannon.

********************************
Boss- Colonel
********************************

Cut-Scene

--------------------
Main Operating Room
--------------------

1) Head to the door to the East.

-------------
Command Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to your Room.

Comand Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Metro
>>> Akiharachou >>> Netto's
House >>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Examine the bed and sleep.

Cut-Scene

Cut-Scene

2) Plug-In to your Computer.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Akihara Area 2.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2

---------------
Akihara Area 2
---------------

1) Head to the big open area.
2) Talk to Blues/Colonel.

Cut-Scene

3) Save. When you're ready head
   to Akihara Area 3.

================================
4. b. Liberate Mission 1 Lbm1
================================
--------------------------------
Akihara Area 3 /
---------------
              / \
***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 7 _ _ _ /_
_\
***********************         
  |_|P|_|       | |__________
  |X|X|Z|       |__________  |
   |_|  _ _ _ _ _         | |
X- Dark Panel                   
3- 3 Order Points
|_|_|_|_|X|H|_|_|_|_|X|G|D|X| |
|
Z- 500 Zennys                   
H- Recovery 100 |X|X|X|
|A|X|_|X|X|X|__| | A- Recovery
30 |X|D|X| |X|X|_|X|B|X|__ | M-
Mystery Data- Buster Up *
|X|G|3| ____ |_|X|_|X|X|X| | |
P- Bonus Panel                  
D- Darkness Hole                
G- Garu-Beast                   
B- Blizzardman                  
         |_|_|_|         | |___|
*******                         
Prizes                          
*******                         
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item            
--------------------------------
|   1  ~  5   | Blizzardman SP B
| 6 ~ 7 | Blizzardman B | | 8 ~
99 | 1000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Gun Del Sol 1 A
Tornado D
Boomerang V
Death Match 1 P

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: -- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: --
Chg: -- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 200 Chp: 80 Chg: 60
| Colonel HP: 200 Chp: 80 Chg:
50 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     c. Scenario 2            
================================

------------
Akiharachou
------------

Cut-Scene

You get an E-mail.

1) Head to your Room.

Akiharachou >>> Netto's House
>>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Akihara Area 3.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2 >>> Akihara
Area 3

---------------
Akihara Area 3
---------------

1) If you want to play the
   Liberate Mission 1 again,
   talk to the Golden Program
   dude.
2) Follow the path to where
   Blizzardman was.
3) Head to the split and take
   the North-West path to the
   end to a Program dude.
4) Talk to the dude.
5) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

You get a E-mail from Dekao.

1) Read the mail to get Dekao's
   P Code.
2) Head to Akiharachou.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to the Metro.
2) Talk to your friends.

Cut-Scene

----------
Olan Isle
----------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to the beach side.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to the speaker thing to
   the North.
3) Plug-In.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Head straight to a split.
2) Take the path heading to the
   South-East. You'll get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Earth Quake 1 A.
3) Head back to the split.
4) Keep following the path to
   another split.
5) Follow the Green path to the
   South-East.
6) Keep following the Green Path
   until you get to a hill.
7) Go up the hill, then the next
   one.
8) At the corner, take the brown
   path to a warp.

--------------
Elevator Comp
--------------

1) In the North is a Holy Panel
   *.
2) In the South is a Regular Up
   +1.
3) Head back to the warp.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Follow the Green path until
   you see a Brown path.
2) Follow this path to a Net
   Merchant.
3) Buy a HP Memory.
4) Head back to the Green Path.
5) Follow the Green path to an
   open area.

Cut-Scene

6) Plug-Out.

----------
Olan Isle
----------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to the very West from
   the Beachside.
2) Examine the waterfall thing
   under the bridge to get some
   Bait.
3) Now head to the Bamboo Tree
   things in the North-East.
4) Examine the Bamboo looking
   trees to get a Bamboo Rod.
5) Do you see the stairs to the
   East? Go down with it.
6) Head to the Corner in the
   West and examine to get the
   Fishing String.
7) Head to where Dekao is.
8) Now head to the bridge.

Cut-Scene

9) Now head to where you were
   fishing.
10)Behing that area are some
   bushes. Examine them to get
   some Hay.
11)Head to where the Speaker is.
12)Right next to the Speaker is
   a small tree. Examine it to
   get a Dead Branch.
13)Head to the Beachside.
14)To the East are some woods on
   the floor. Examine them to
   get a Wooden Board and you're
   done.
15)Go talk to Dekao.

Cut-Scene

You get an E-mail from a
Scientist.

You get the Navi Customizer.

Go through the Tutorial.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

Cut-Scene

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 1
--------------------------

1) Head straight to a split.
2) Take the North path to a
   Elevator.
3) Put the switch in, take the
   Elevator.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 2
--------------------------

1) Examine the door.
2) Head back through the
   Elevator.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 1
--------------------------

1) Head back to the split.
2) Go up the hill.
3) Head outside.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Plug-In to the Speaker.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Follow the path to a Navi.
2) Talk to him and buy the Lift
   Key for 1000 Zennys.
3) Plug-Out.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to Abandoned Mine
   Interior 2.

Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 1 >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 2

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 2
--------------------------

1) Open the door.
2) At the split, take the right
   path.
3) Examine the debris for a HP
   Memory.
4) Head back to the split.
5) Take the other path.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the other entrance.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 3
--------------------------

1) At the split, go down the
   hill.
2) Then go up the hill to the
   West to another door.
3) Save. Examine the door.

*******
Battle
*******

4) Head through.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Go up the hill and into
   another entrance.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 4
--------------------------

1) Follow the path to a split.
2) Take the right path to a
   door.
3) Save. Examine the door.

*******
Battle
*******

4) Head through.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Follow the path and head
   inside the room closest to
   you.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 5
--------------------------

1) Head to the machine and Plug-
   In.

--------------------------
Air Cleaning Machine Comp
--------------------------

1) Head to the North to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Tornado R.
2) Plug-Out.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 5
--------------------------

1) Get out of here.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Go up the hill and follow the
   path to another entrance.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 7
--------------------------

1) Save. Examine the door.

*******
Battle
*******

2) Follow the path and take the
   Elevator.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 8
--------------------------

1) Head through the door.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 1
---------------------

The next few areas are kind of
cool and somewhat annoying.
There will be Rocks that will be
in your way. You must break
those down. Some will take more
hits than others. Another
mechanism in this area is the
Conveyor Belt. You must break
Rocks that come your way and you
must maneuver your way on this
Conveyor to get to the end. Save
before heading through a
Conveyor.

1) Start by talking to the
   Program Dude to get the Rock
   Drilling Program.
2) Break the Rock in front of
   you by pressing A. It should
   make a crack. Hit it 2 more
   times to destroy it.
3) Follow the path to your first
   Belt Conveyor.
4) When you're ready head on the
   Conveyor and start running to
   the North-East. On the way
   are Rocks, but destroy them
   as fast as you can. On the
   way is a resting spot. So
   rest there and start again.
5) If you managed to get
   through, follow the path to a
   split.
6) Head to the left to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Invisible *.
7) Head back to the split.
8) Take the other path to a
   Rock.
9) Hit this one 5 times.
10)At the split take the North-
   East path to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a HP
   Memory.
11)Head back to the split and
   head to the West to another
   Conveyor.
12)Head through when you think
   can.
13)Do the same thing.
14)Destroy the Rock by hitting
   it 3 times.
15)Follow the path to a row of
   Rocks. Very easy to destroy.
16)The last Conveyor of the
   area. Remember to Save. On
   the way is another rest stop.
17)When you get through, follow
   the path to the last Rock of
   this area.
18)Destroy it and examine the
   Control Panel.
19)Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Head to the next one.
2) Plug-In.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 2
---------------------

1) Follow the path and destroy
   the Rock.
2) Follow the path to a
   Conveyor. This one has a
   resting spot on both sides.
3) At the split, take the left
   path to a Rock.
4) Destroy and take the Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Charge +1.(Yellow)
5) Head back to the split and
   take the other path.
6) Destory the Rock. This takes
   you to another Conveyor.
7) At the split, take the right
   path to another Conveyor.
8) When you head through 2 Rocks
   will greet you.
9) Destroy both Rocks to get to
   another Conveyor.
10)That one should've been easy.
   Take the obvious path and
   follow it to another
   Conveyor.
11)You should definitely Save
   here. There are no rest spots
   on the way.
12)At the split take the left
   path to get to a Blue Mystery
   Data to get a Stone Cube *.
13)Go back to the split and take
   the other path to the last
   Conveyor of this area. There
   is a rest stop one the way.
   Take it.
14)You should now be at the rest
   spot. SAVE. To go on from
   here there is a Rock that is
   on the path that we want to
   go through. You must destroy
   it in time. You are on the
   Conveyor, so if you miss
   you're toast.
15)When you successfully destroy
   the Rock head to the Control
   Panel.
16)Examine it and Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Head to the next one.
2) Plug-In.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 3
---------------------

1) Follow the path to your first
   Conveyor.
2) This Conveyor is really long.
   On the way are 2 rest stops,
   so use them to your choice.
   If you want a HP +100 (Pink)
   you must go all the way and
   break the Rock at the end.
3) Follow the path to another
   Coveyor.
4) This one has 2 rest stops.
   This one has a Rock at the
   end like the one in Comp 2.
   So Save, and time your hit.
5) Ignore the Rock and head to
   the next Conveyor.
6) This one has only 1 rest
   stop. So be careful.
7) Talk to the Program Dude here
   to get the Suspension Device
   Key.
8) Now head back to that Rock we
   didn't break.
9) Break the Rock.
10)Destory the next Rock.
11)At the split take the Left
   path to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Full Energy.
12)Now follow the path to
   another Conveyor.
13)Do your best to go around the
   Conveyor.
14)Follow the path to a Rock.
15)Destroy it.
16)Use the Suspension Device Key
   on the Suspension Device.
17)Now head back to where the
   Program Dude is.
18)Head through the last
   Conveyor to the Control
   Panel.
19)Examine it and Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Head to the next one.
2) Plug-In.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 4
---------------------

1) Follow the path to a set of
   Conveyors.
2) Run your way through all the
   Rocks coming at you.
3) Follow the path to another
   Conveyor.
4) Time your run and head
   through. This one isn't that
   tough.
5) When you get to the next
   Conveyor, head to the North
   to get to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a HP Memory.
6) Now head back to where you
   were on Step 5. This time
   head to the bottom and
   destroy the Rock while you're
   on the Conveyor.
7) This next Conveyor has one
   resting spot. At the top is
   another Rock in your way.
8) After you get through the
   Rock, there will be another
   Conveyor. Go past this one
   and you'll come to another
   Conveyor.
9) Follow the path to the
   longest Conveyor. Well maybe
   it's the same length as the
   one in Comp 3. Doesn't
   matter, just head to the very
   end.
10)Follow the path to the last
   Conveyor Belt. After the 2nd
   time going through the
   Conveyor from side to side,
   head to the North to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Long Sword S.
11)Follow the Conveyor Belt's
   path from here and use the
   Suspension Device Key on the
   Suspension Device then Save.
12)When you're ready head to the
   Control Panel where
   Magnetman/Knightman is.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Magnetman
********************************

HP: 500 Element: Elec
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Drill Arm Reward: Magnetman in
your team

Not that hard. Hit him with all
you got. Be careful of the
Magnet Field he uses. The Mag
Missiles will search you, but
it's not hard to dodge. The Mag
Balls move very slow. So don't
worry about it.

********************************
Boss- Magnetman
********************************

********************************
Boss- Knightman
********************************

HP: 600 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Drill Arm Reward: Knightman in
your team

Knightman moves by jumping.
He'll move every 5 seconds or
something. He rarely moves.
He'll use Kingdom Crusher to
send that huge Ball of Spikes at
you. One of his favorite moves
is Broken Wall. He sends his
Ball of Spike into the air and
sends boulders falling on your
side of the screen. If you are
close to Knightman, he'll use
the Royal Wrecking Ball.

********************************
Boss- Knightman
********************************

Cut-Scene

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Follow the path.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 8
--------------------------

1) Head to the Elevator.
2) Take the Elevator.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 9
--------------------------

1) Follow the path.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Examine the door.
2) Plug-In.

---------------------
Electronic Lock Comp
---------------------

1) Examine the Release Switch in
   the middle of the area.
2) Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Now head to Oran Isle Area 3
   to start the Liberation
   Mission.

================================
4. d. Liberate Mission 2 Lbm2
================================
--------------------------------
Oran Isle Area 3 /
-----------------
  / \         ****************
***********************         
Target Clear Phase-  9          
***********************         
      _ _ _|X|X|X|_ _ _| |
X- Dark Panel                   
2- 2 Order Points |X|X|X| | |_ _
_
3- 3 Order Points               
Z- 2000 Zennys                  
H- Recovery 200                 
A- Mystery Data- Hi Cannon D
|X|X| B- Mystery Data- Air
Hockey R _ _ _ _|_|_|_ P- Bonus
Panel _ _ _ _|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|_ _
_ _ _ _ _ D- Darkness Hole
|P|_|_|_|_|D|X|X|R|D|X|X|Z|_|_|
|_|_|_| G- Garu-Beast
|X|X|G|X|X|X|X| |_|P|_|
R- Roy-Hawk                     
S- Shademan                     
  |_|_|_|X|_|_|X|_|_|_|_|X|_|
*******                         
Prizes                          
*******                         
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item            
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 7 | Shademan SP S |
|_|_|_|2|X|X|X|_|X|_|X| | 8 ~ 9
| Shademan S | |X|X|X|_|X|P|X| |
10 ~ 99 | 2000 Zennys |
|R|X|X|A|_|
--------------------------------
        _ _ _|_|X|_|_|X|
********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel |X|X|2|
********************************
            |X|_|_ _
Earth Quake 2 B                 
Kamon Snake Z |_START_|
Count Bomb 1 T                  
Navi +20 *                      
             \   /
              \ /
********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: -- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: --
Chg: -- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 300 Chp: 80 Chg: 60
| Colonel HP: 300 Chp: 80 Chg:
50 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 400 Chp: 80 Chg:
40 | Knightman HP: 400 Chp: 80
Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     e. Scenario 3            
================================

------------
Akiharachou
------------

Cut-Scene

----------------
Squirrel Comp 1
----------------

You get a E-mail from
Enzan/Barrel.

You learn how to use the Soul
Unison.

Alright let me explain what you
have to do. You are in Area 1
right now. Your mission is to
get to Area 16. If you don't
have a guide for this you're
going to have some kind of
trouble. Here's a little diagram
of how the Areas are located.
    6 I know it sucks, but live
    with it. Here's is a
   / breakdown of this place.
   Some of the areas 4 contains
   Items. Here is a list of
   those items in
 /   \              each area.
 2 - 3      7 - 8
   /      \                   3-
  / 5 13 4- 200 Zennys
1 / 5- Charge +1 (White)
  \ 11 6- Gun Del Sol 1 A
   \        /    \            8-
 9 - 10 14 - 16 10- 300 Zennys
\                11- 400 Zennys
12             13- Regular Up +1
    \ 15- First Barrier (Blue)
    15

The items are usually in the
middle of that area.

Here's a good route...Area 1 >>>
Area 2 >>> Area 3 >>> Area 4 >>>
Area 6 >>> Area 4 >>> Area 7 >>>
Area 8 >>> Area 7 >>> Area 4 >>>
Area 3 >>> Area 5 >>> Area 3 >>>
Area 2 >>> Area 1 >>> Area 9 >>>
Area 10 >>> Area 12 >>> Area 15
>>> Area 12 >>> Area 10 >>> Area
11 >>> Area 13 >>> Area 11 >>>
Area 14 >>> Area 16.

In conclusion you have to go
through every area unless you
don't want something which is
weird because I know every one
wants everything.

-----------------
Squirrel Comp 16
-----------------

Cut-Scene

1) Plug-Out.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

You get an E-mail from
Enzan/Barrel.

You get an E-mail from Higure.

1) To the West of where you are
   is Higureya. Enter.

---------
Higureya
---------

1) So this is Higureya. This is
   where you will buy Chips.
   Come here any time you want.
   I'll also tell you when
   Higure gets new Chips during
   the game.
2) Go to the Show Case and buy
   the Bubble Wrap Y. Put it in
   your folder.
3) When you're done, get out of
   here.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to Oran Isle.

Akiharachou >>> Metro >>> Oran
Isle

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Head to the Speaker and Plug-
   In.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

Cut-Scene

1) Follow the path to the 2nd
   split.
2) Head to the West to Oran Isle
   Area 2.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 2
-----------------

1) Follow the path until you see
   a Blue Mystery Data you can
   get.
2) Open it to get a Vulcan 2 C.
3) Now follow the Green Path
   until you see a Heel Navi.
4) Save then talk to him.

*******
Battle
*******

5) Keep following the Green Path
   to go up a hill.
6) When you go up the hill,
   there is a transporter.
7) Take it to get to the last
   Heel Navi in this area. Save
   then talk.

*******
Battle
*******

8) Now go back to the hill.
9) When you go down head to the
   East and follow the path to a
   transporter.
10)Use it to get back to the
   entrance of this area. Head
   back to Area 1.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Just follow the Green Path to
   Oran Isle Area 3 until you
   see a Heel Navi.
2) Save and talk.

*******
Battle
*******

3) Now head to Oran Isle Area 3.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 3
-----------------

1) Just run straight until you
   see a Heel Navi.
2) Save and talk.

*******
Battle
*******

3) Keep running straight until
   you get to a split.
4) Take the right path to a Heel
   Navi. (This is where a Bonus
   Panel was in Liberate Mission
   2)
5) Save and talk.

*******
Battle
*******

6) Head back to the split.
7) Take the other path and
   follow it to a Heel Navi.
8) Save and talk.

*******
Battle
*******

Cut-Scene

9) Save. Now head to the
   Kagakushou Area that is to
   the North-East from here.

Cut-Scene

*******
Battle
*******

10)Now go to Kagakushou Area.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 1
------------------

1) Run straight to a split.
2) Take the right path and
   follow it to the North-East
   to get to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Custom 1
   (Blue).
3) Now head back to the split.
4) Take the left path and follow
   it to a split.
5) Go North to another split.
   Then take the East path.
6) You should now be in this
   maze looking place. Don't
   worry just head to the East.
   There should be a path.
7) Follow the path to the North-
   West.
8) When you get to a split, take
   the left path and just follow
   the path to Kagakushou Area
   2.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 2
------------------

1) Follow the path to a split.
2) Take the left path and follow
   the path all the way to the
   South-West to get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   HP Memory.
3) Head directly North from here
   to a small tiny Orange Path.
4) Head directly West from here
   to another small tiny Orange
   Path.
5) Follow to the South-West to
   another Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Shield
   (Green).
6) Now head back to the small
   tiny Ornage Path.
7) From there head to the North-
   East to a long path with
   Clouds.

Cut-Scene

8) Plug-Out.

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Head to your Room.

Oran Isle >>> Metro >>>
Akiharachou >>> Netto's House
>>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Examine the bed and sleep.

You get a E-mail from
Tesla/Princess Pride.

2) Head to the Great Cavern.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Metro >>>
Oran Isle >>> Abandoned Mine >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 1 >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 2 >>>
Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 3 >>> Abandoned
Mine >>> Abandoned Mine Interior
4 >>> Abandoned Mine >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 7 >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 8 >>>
Great Cavern

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Talk to Tesla/Princess Pride.
2) Plug-In to the Rock Drilling
   Comp 1.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 1
---------------------

1) Head to where the Control
   Panel is. Don't worry the
   Conveyor Belts aren't moving
   anymore. So it should be
   easier.
2) Get the Thought Program and
   Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Plug-In to the next one.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 2
---------------------

1) Head to where the Control
   Panel is.
2) Grab the Language Program and
   Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Plug-In to the next one.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 3
---------------------

1) Head to where the Control
   Panel is.
2) Grab the Movement Program and
   Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Plug-In to the next one.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 4
---------------------

1) Head to where the Control
   Panel is.
2) Grab the Attack Program and
   Plug-Out.

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Talk to Tesla/Princess Pride.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to the Command Room.

Great Cavern >>> Abandoned Mine
Interior 8 >>> Abandoned Mine
Interior 7 >>> Abandoned Mine
>>> Abandoned Mine Interior 4
>>> Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 3 >>> Abandoned
Mine >>> Abandoned Mine Interior
2 >>> Abandoned Mine Interior 1
>>> Abandoned Mine >>> Oran Isle
>>> Metro >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Kagakushou Lobby
>>> Main Operating Room >>>
Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to your Room.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Metro
>>> Akiharachou >>> Netto's
House >>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Oran Isle Area 1.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2 >>> Akihara
Area 3 >>> Oran Isle Area 1

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

Cut-Scene

1) Go down the hill and follow
   the path until you see a
   Program Dude.
2) Talk to him to get the Mega
   Vacuum.
3) From here and on what you
   must do is to suck up the
   Clouds that are in your way.
   The thing is the Mega Vacuum
   can only hold up to 10 Slots
   of Clouds. There are also
   Clouds that have different
   colors with different amounts
   of slots they take up. A
   White Cloud takes up 1 slot,
   a Gray Cloud takes up 3
   slots, a Black Cloud takes up
   5 slots, and the Gold Cloud
   takes up 1 slot. What's so
   special about the Gold
   Cloud...it sometimes gives
   you items. In my guide I'm
   not going to put any, because
   I think most of them are
   worthless. You don't need
   them. So I'm only going to
   guide you through the
   necessary ones. If you want
   to get those Gold Clouds get
   them yourself. I'm telling
   you this, they are a waste of
   time. You do not need them.
   If you actually went through
   all the Gold Clouds and know
   what you got, you can E-mail
   me and tell me what those
   are. This can help people
   what those Gold Clouds
   contain. Remember your name
   will be credited.
4) Just head to Area 2. On the
   way are only White Clouds.
   Just follow the Green Path
   and you'll be Ok.

Cut-Scene

5) Talk to the Program Dude here
   to clean your Vacuum out.
6) Head to Oran Isle Area 2.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 2
-----------------

1) Head foward.

Cut-Scene

2) Follow the path to the hill.
   On the way, you can suck up
   everything until you get to
   the White Cloud after you
   suck up the Gray Cloud.
3) Then you must go empty it
   out.
4) When you get to the hill
   you'll meet
   Gyroman/Shadowman.

Cut-Scene

5) Now head back to Oran Isle
   Area 1.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Head to the entrance of this
   area. Empty your Vaccum on
   the way.
2) Head up the hill.
3) Follow the path to Oran Isle
   Area 3 while sucking up
   Clouds on the way.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 3
-----------------

1) Just head to Kagakushou Area
   1. No Clouds here.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 1
------------------

1) Alright from here, you
   actually have to think on
   which Clouds to suck up,
   because if you mess up...you
   mess up. Follow my guide as
   much as possible. First empty
   out your Vaccum in the
   entrance of this area.
2) Start by taking the right
   path at the split.
3) Suck up the White Cloud here.
4) Take the left path and suck
   up the Cloud here.
5) Conitnue on to find another
   White Cloud.
6) Then head to the maze looking
   part and suck the White Cloud
   in the North- East.
7) Suck the Black Cloud and
   White Cloud that follows. Now
   head back and empty your
   Vacuum.
8) When you're back, suck up the
   Gray, White, Gray Cloud in
   that order.
9) There should be a Program
   Dude that can empty out half
   of what's inside your Vacuum.
10)Suck up the Black Cloud. Now
   go back and empty your
   Vacuum.
11)Follow the path to another
   Black Cloud.
12)Suck up the Gray Cloud next.
   Then you should get to
   another Program Dude that'll
   empty your Vacuum.
13)Suck up the Black Cloud and
   empty it out again.
14)Now follow the path to Area
   2. There are 4 White Clouds,
   and 1 Gray Cloud on the way.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 2
------------------

1) Start by sucking up the first
   3 Clouds you see.
2) Talk to the Program Dude
   right by you to empty it.
3) Get rid of the Gray Cloud
   closest to you.
4) Follow the path to a White
   Cloud.
5) Suck it up and follow the
   path to a Gold Cloud.
6) Suck this one up and talk to
   the Program Dude.
7) Head back to where the White
   Cloud was.
8) Suck up the Black Cloud
   closest to you.
9) Head to the North-East to
   another Gold Cloud.
10)Talk to the Program Dude. Now
   go back to where the other
   Gold Cloud was.
11)Take the path right next to
   where the Gold Cloud was.
   Suck up the Black Cloud then
   the Gray Cloud.
12)Head to the South-West to
   another Program Dude.
13)After emptying the Vacuum,
   head directly North to a
   Black Cloud.
14)Suck up the Black Cloud then
   head North-East to another
   Black Cloud.
15)Go back to the Program Dude
   and come back.
16)Head North-East again to your
   last Cloud you will suck in.
17)Save. When you're ready
   follow the path to where
   Gyroman/Shadowman is.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Gyroman
********************************

HP: 600
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Wide Sword
Reward: Gyroman in your team

Gyroman moves a lot. His Gyro
Cutter will search you. When you
shoot your Buster at him, he'll
use Gyro Counter. He stays in
place and turns into a
Helicopter and shoots at you.
When he uses his Tornado Arm,
just move one panel up or down
and use Wide Sword to attack.

********************************
Boss- Gyroman
********************************

********************************
Boss- Shadowman
********************************

HP: 500
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Spread Gun
Reward: Shadowman in your team

If you've faced Shadowman in Exe
or Exe 2 you'll know how he
fights. He's exactly the same.
He'll fight with 2 Copies of
himself. For you Naruto fans out
there, this is the same as the
Kagebunshin no Jyutsu. (Shadow
Replication) One shot from your
Buster can eliminate them
though, but don't feel as ease.
Because they keep coming back.
Just aim for Shadowman itself.
You'll know the real one because
the real one has his HP under
him.

********************************
Boss- Shadowman
********************************

Cut-Scene

18)Now head to those Clouds that
   you couldn't get through a
   long time ago. (The beginning
   of this scenario)

Cut-Scene

================================
4. f. Liberate Mission 3 Lbm3
================================
--------------------------------
Kagakushou Area 3 /
------------------

***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 9
|_|X|N|X|_| ****************
***********************         
|_|_|_|_|_|    ****************
X- Dark Panel               / \ 
3- 3 Order Points          /   \
Z- 1500 Zennys            /_   _
H- Recovery 300           __| | 
M- Paralyze Bomb H       |  __| 
P- Bonus Panel | | |_|X|X|X|P| _
_ _|X|X|X|X|H|_|X|X|X| 1-
Barrier 1 | | |_|_|X|_|X|_
_|_|2|_|X|X|D|X|X|_|R|D|X| 2-
Barrier 2 _| |_ _ |_|X|D|G|X|_|_
|_|2|_|X|X|X|X|X|_|X|X|X| I-
Barrier Key 1
|X|X|X|_|_|_|_|X|_|3|
|_|X|Z|X|X|X|_| N- Barrier Key 2
|X|C|X|_|_|_|X|X|X|X|
|_|_|X|X|X|_|_| D- Darkness Hole
|X|X|X|_| |_|X|X|X|_|
G- Garu-Beast 2          | |___ 
R- Roy-Hawk              |___  |
C- Cloudman _| |_
|_|X|X|X|X|_|X|X|X|X|_|I|
      |     |             |_|   
*******                    |    
Prizes                     |_ _ 
*******                         
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
|R|_|X|X|X|X|_|X|X|X|X|_|
--------------------------------
|   1  ~  7   | Cloudman SP S   
|   8  ~  9   | Cloudman S      
| 10 ~ 99 | 3000 Zennys |
|P|_|X|_|X|_|X|_|3|
--------------------------------
      |X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|
********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel |_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|
********************************
            \START/
Pulse Beam 2 G                  
Mega Energy Bomb K \ / Wide
Blade A Fire Punch 2 I

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: -- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 350 Chp: 100 Chg: 70
| Colonel HP: 350 Chp: 100 Chg:
60 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 500 Chp: 80 Chg:
40 | Knightman HP: 500 Chp: 80
Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
| Gyroman HP: 250 Chp: 50 Chg:
20 | Shadowman HP: 250 Chp: 80
Chg: 60 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     g. Scenario 4            
================================

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to the Front of
   Kagakushou.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Metro >>>
Front of Kagakushou

--------------------
Front of Kagakushou
--------------------

1) Head to the East after going
   up the first set of stairs to
   enter the Luxurious Ship
   Platform.

------------------------
Luxurious Ship Platform
------------------------

1) Head down the stairs and just
   head straight to meet
   Enzan/Barrel.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to the Command Room.

Luxurious Ship Platform >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Main
Operating Room >>> Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

You get Enzan's/Barrel's PET.
Which means you get
Blues/Colonel.

1) Head to Oran Isle.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Metro
>>> Oran Isle

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Plug-In to the Speaker.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Head to Oran Isle Area 2.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 2
-----------------

1) Head to where the hill is.
2) Go up the hill.
3) Take the transporter.
4) Examine the door that leads
   to End Area 1.
5) Head to Kagakushou Area 3.

Oran Isle Area 2 >>> Oran Isle
Area 1 >>> Oran Isle Area 3 >>>
Kagakushou Area 1 >>> Kagakushou
Area 2 >>> Kagakushou Area 3

------------------
Kagakushou Area 3
------------------

1) Run to where Cloudman was in
   Liberate Mission 3.
2) Head to the North-East to
   Kagakushou Area 4.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 4
------------------

1) Head straight to a split.(The
   one over the square panel)
2) Head to the left and take the
   transporter.
3) Take the next transporter and
   talk to the Heel Navi. Buy
   the Dark Wide T for 1000
   Zennys.
4) Take the transporter out of
   here. Head back to the split.
5) Head straight a little to
   another split.
6) Take the right path to a
   transporter. Take it to
   another split.
7) Take the right path and head
   down the path to a
   transporter.
8) Take it and follow the path
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Mega Folder 1
   (Green).
9) Now take the transporter
   closest to you.
10)Head to the North-East to
   another transporter.
11)Follow the path to another
   transporter.
12)Follow the path to a Navi.
13)Save and talk to him.

*******
Battle
*******

You get the Science Key.

14)Take the transporter right
   next to you and run to the
   South-West to another
   transporter.
15)Take it and follow to another
   split.
16)Follow the South-East path
   and follow the right path to
   a transporter.
17)Take it and head through the
   warp.

------------
Server Comp
------------

1) Head to the other side to
   Oran Isle 2.

Note: Come back here when you're
Rockman to get the HP Memory and
to do
 something else. It might be in
 the guide.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 2
-----------------

1) Take the transporter and you
   should know where you are.
2) Follow the Green Path and up
   the hill.
3) Take the transporter and head
   to the door.
4) Open it with the Science Key.
5) Head to End Area 1.

-----------
End Area 1
-----------

1) Just follow the path you are
   on. Don't go down any of the
   hills.

Cut-Scene

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Head to the Command Room.

Oran Isle >>> Metro >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Kagakushou Lobby
>>> Main Operating Room >>>
Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to Oran Isle.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Metro
>>> Oran Isle

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Go talk to Tesla/Princess
   Pride.

You get the Invitation Ticket.

2) Head to your Room.

Oran Isle >>> Metro >>>
Akihrarchou >>> Netto's House
>>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Sleep.

Next Day...

2) Head to the Luxurious Ship
   Platform.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Metro >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>>
Luxurious Ship Platform

------------------------
Luxurious Ship Platform
------------------------

1) Head to where the Ship
   is.(It's in the East)
2) Talk to the guy in front of
   the stairs.
3) Board the Ship.

---------
Corridor
---------

1) When you're at the main part
   of the Corridor, head to the
   South-East to get outside.

-----
Deck
-----

1) Head to the middle of the
   Deck and talk to the guy
   there.
2) Let the Stamp Rally begin!!!
   Start by heading to the East
   to the tip of the Ship.
3) Examine the tip to get the
   Virgin Stamp.
4) Now head to the North and up
   the stairs.
5) Head to the West and enter
   the door there.

--------------
Steerage Room
--------------

1) Go up the stairs and examine
   the Helm to get the Helm
   Stamp.
2) Head to the Corridor.

Steerage Room >>> Deck >>>
Corridor

---------
Corridor
---------

1) Head to the West and examine
   the Sofa to get the Sofa
   Stamp.
2) Now go back to the Deck.

-----
Deck
-----

1) Go talk to the guy.

You get 1000 Zennys.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to the Corridor.

---------
Corridor
---------

1) Head to the very West to a
   door.
2) You need to unlock it with a
   code. You get this code from
   a guy on Deck, but I have the
   answer already. I'll save you
   the time of traveling over
   there.
3) Input the code 11922911.
4) Head inside.

------------
Engine Room
------------

Cut-Scene

1) Examine the machine in the
   way back.
2) Plug-In.

-----------
Radar Comp
-----------

Cut-Scene

1) Follow that Heel Navi. At the
   split take the right path.
2) At the next split take the
   left path to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains 400
   Zennys.
3) Now head back to the split.
4) Save. Now head to the other
   path that you didn't take to
   a...

*******
Battle
*******

5) Head through the warp.

----------------------
Air Conditioning Comp
----------------------

1) At the split take the right
   path.
2) At the next split take the
   left path to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Battery
   Mode.
3) Now head back to the split.
4) Save. Now head to the other
   path that you didn't take to
   a...

*******
Battle
*******

5) Head through the warp.

---------------
Propeller Comp
---------------

This place is called the Screw
Comp, but that doesn't sound
right. Another word for Screw is
Propeller. See you learned
something from a Video Game
Guide.

1) At the split take the right
   path.
2) At the next split take the
   left path to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Regular
   Up +2.
3) Now head back to the split.
4) Save. Now head to the other
   path that you didn't take to
   a...

*******
Battle
*******

5) Head through the warp.

------------
Engine Comp
------------

Cut-Scene

------------
Engine Room
------------

Cut-Scene

1) Plug-In again.

-----------
Radar Comp
-----------

1) Head to the Engine Comp.

Radar Comp >>> Air Conditioning
Comp >>> Propeller Comp >>>
Engine Comp

------------
Engine Comp
------------

1) Head to the North-East to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Sub Memory.
2) Plug-Out.

------------
Engine Room
------------

1) Head to the Corridor.

---------
Corridor
---------

1) Head to the Double Doors in
   the East.
2) Head inside.

-----------
Party Hall
-----------

1) Talk to everyone here.

Cut-Scene

2) Examine the 3 Mirrors in this
   room.

Cut-Scene

Pick the Mirror then the
Reflection.

Cut-Scene

3) Head to the Engine Room.

Party Hall >>> Corridor >>>
Engine Room

------------
Engine Room
------------

1) Examine the ladder right next
   to the place where you can
   Plug-In.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to the Deck.

Engine Room >>> Corridor >>>
Deck

-----
Deck
-----

1) This is not a good time, but
   go Plug-In to the Net Battle
   Machine.

------------------------
Net Battle Machine Comp
------------------------

1) In the South is a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   HP +50 (Pink).
2) Plug-Out.

-----
Deck
-----

1) Head up the stairs and go see
   the guy on the floor.

Cut-Scene

2) Head inside the Steerage
   Room.

--------------
Steerage Room
--------------

Cut-Scene

----------------------
Luxurious Ship Comp 1
----------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Talk to the Program Dude here
   to learn about the Oxygen
   Tank. Learn well. You'll need
   it.
2) Follow the path to a locked
   door.
3) Go down the hill close by and
   into the water.
4) When you get to the bottom,
   you'll start losing oxygen.
   Head to the left path to a
   area with a Whirlpool.
5) Just go pass the Whirlpool
   and head to the North to
   another Whirlpool. There's
   also a bubble that'll
   replenish some of your
   oxygen. You don't actually
   need it, but that's what it
   looks like.
6) Head to the North-East to get
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Water Proof Key.
7) Take the warp right next to
   you.
8) Open the door and head down
   the next hill.
9) Head to the right and you
   should see a Whirlpool.
10)Make your way to the South-
   East to get to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Yo Yo F.
11)Now head to the North-East
   and head to the North-West.
12)Soon you should see a
   Whirlpool and a Blue Mystery
   Data.
13)Grab the Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Water Proof
   Key and enter the warp.
14)Open the door and head down
   the next hill you come
   across.
15)Head to the South.
16)Head North-East to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data with a Spin
   White inside.
17)Now head to the South-West to
   find another Whirlpool.
18)Pass it and head to the West
   to a warp.
19)To the right is a Whirlpool
   and a Blue Mystery Data. Get
   the Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Water Proof Key.
20)Head to the warp.
21)Open the door and head to
   Comp 2.

----------------------
Luxurious Ship Comp 2
----------------------

1) Head down the hill.
2) Follow the path and you
   should get to a Whirlpool.
3) After you pass the Whirlpool,
   there is a tide that will
   push you to the South-West.
   You're trying to go to the
   South-East. You can choose to
   wait for the tide to stop for
   awhile, or you can run in the
   opposite direction of the
   tide. Whatever you do just
   head to the South-East to get
   out of the tide.
4) Follow the path to a
   Whirlpool.
5) Go past this one and head to
   the South-East to another
   tide.
6) This one is also pushing to
   the South-West. Wait for the
   tide to stop for this one.
   When it stops run and head to
   the first turn you see.
7) There will be a Whirlpool and
   a Blue Mystery Data here. You
   can't get it because it's a
   HP Memory. Just remember to
   come back here when you're
   Rockman. Right now take the
   tide that's right next to the
   HP Memory. It saves you a
   little running.
8) Follow the path to another
   Whirlpool.
9) Go past this one and head to
   the right to get some oxygen.
10)Head to the North to another
   Whirlpool.
11)Past this one is another
   Whirlpool and a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Water
   Proof Key.
12)Head to the West and enter
   the warp. Be careful on the
   way because there's a tide
   pushing to the South-East.
13)Open the door and head to the
   next hill going down.
14)When you go down the hill
   follow the path to the right.
15)When you get to the area with
   the tide, wait until it
   stops. Then run to the
   resting stop in the middle.
   Then continue when it stops
   again.
16)Stop at the corner. You
   should see a tide that's
   pushing to the North-West and
   another tide pushing to the
   South-East. Time your run so
   that you go on the tide that
   pushes you to the South-East.
17)When you get pushed Save.
18)Head to the right, but don't
   go on the tide or else you go
   back to where you were.
19)Go past the Whirlpools and
   get on the next tide you see.
20)Follow the path and you
   should see a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Regular
   Up +3.
21)Follow the path to a square
   panel with a Whirlpool.
22)In the square panel is also a
   place to get oxygen.
23)Head to the West to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Water Proof Key.
24)Now head to the North and use
   the warp.
25)Open the door and follow the
   path to Comp 3.

----------------------
Luxurious Ship Comp 3
----------------------

1) Follow the path and head down
   the hill.
2) Head to the South-West. You
   should come across 2
   Whirlpools.
3) Just head to the West. At the
   split, go South-West and get
   some of that Oxygen you see.
4) Head to the South from here
   to get to 2 more Whirlpools.
5) After getting past the
   Whirlpools you'll get to some
   tides.
6) Go past them and head to the
   South-East to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains the Water
   Proof Key A.
7) Now go through the warp.
8) Head down the hill.
9) Head to the South-West. You
   should come across the 2
   Whirlpools again.
10)Head to the West like last
   time. At the split, head
   North this time.
11)Go on the tide and follow the
   path to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Sub Memory.
   There should also be some
   oxygen nearby.
12)Follow the path to another
   tide.
13)Head to the North-East after
   getting pushed by the tide.
14)The should be a Whirlpool.
   After getting past this one,
   there will be 2 more waiting
   for you.
15)After passing the Whirlpools,
   there's a tide.
16)Wait until it stops. Then
   move in that direction to get
   a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Kusamura Seed A.
17)Now take the tide and go back
   to where you were.
18)Keep following the path and
   up the hill to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains the Water
   Proof Key C.
19)Head down the hill and head
   to the right and enter the
   warp.
20)Head down the hill.
21)This time head South-East and
   you should come across 2
   Whirlpools.
22)Just go pass them and at the
   split, go to the left to get
   some oxygen.
23)Now head to the right and get
   on the first tide you see.
24)Follow the only path to some
   more oxygen.
25)Don't worry about the
   Whirlpool you see and head to
   the left and go up at the
   next split.
26)Don't get pushed by the tides
   coming up.
27)Keep following the path and
   you'll get to 2 more
   Whirlpools.
28)Follow the path to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains
   the Water Proof key B.
29)Take the warp.
20)Open the door and head to
   Comp 4.

----------------------
Luxurious Ship Comp 4
----------------------

1) Follow the path and head down
   the hill.
2) Head to the East to see a
   tide.
3) Wait until it stops and
   follow the path to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Kakuchou Memory.(Expansion
   Memory)
4) Take the tide to another
   area.
5) Get the oxygen in the corner
   and follow the path to
   another tide.
6) Take it to another area.
7) Get some oxygen from the
   corner and follow the path to
   the North-West. On the way
   are tides, but don't get
   pushed by it.
8) When you get past the two
   tides, you'll come to another
   tide. Ride on this one to
   another area.
9) There's some oxygen in the
   corner here. Head to the
   North-West where a Whirlpool
   is waiting.
10)Just follow the path until
   you come across another tide.
11)Ride on this tide to another
   part of the area.
12)Follow the path North-East to
   encounter another Whirlpool.
13)From here keep heading to the
   East to get to another tide.
   On the way are 2 Whirlpools.
14)Pass the first tide and
   you'll come to another tide.
   This one will push you to the
   North-East. Ride on it.
15)Grab the Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Attack +1
   (White).
16)Take the other tide to get
   back.
17)Head to the West and you'll
   come across another
   Whirlpool.
18)Follow the path South and you
   should come to another tide
   that will push you to the
   South-East.
19)Follow the path to another
   tide that will push you to
   the North-East.
20)Follow the path to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains
   the last Water Proof key you
   will ever need.
21)Take the warp.
22)Save.
23)When you're ready, head
   through.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Napalmman
********************************

HP: 800 Element: Fire
Recommended Chips: Air Hockey,
Area Steal, Aqua Whirl,
Blizzardman Reward: Napalmman in
your team

If you've played Exe 2 you'll
remember this guy. He has almost
the same attacks he had in Exe
2. So you veterans out there
should be able to take care of
this guy no sweat. Napalmman
will mainly use his Vulcan Arms
that will come out in his field
to attack. When the cursor hits
you, that's when it'll attack.
He'll also shoot Fire Bombs at
you. It'll be a shape of a +
sign. The Drop point will also
have cracks afterwards. When his
HP gets low he'll use his Napalm
Bomb. It's a wide range attack
that will cover your whole field
if he drops the bomb in the
center.

********************************
Boss- Napalmman
********************************

********************************
Boss- Tomahawkman
********************************

HP: 700 Element: Wood
Recommended Chips: Fire Punch,
Yo Yo, P.A Dream Sword Reward:
Tomahawkman in your team

If you've read my other guides
for this series, you know that I
always say Wood elemented navis
are easy. Well Tomahawkman is a
different story. You see that
Totem in the back of his field?
That's going to be part of the
reason. It depends on which of
the heads turn around. If the
White head turns to you, he'll
be invincible. If the Green head
turns to you, he'll start
replenishing his HP. If the Red
head turns to you, meteors will
fall on your side. Now to the
easy part. Charge up Colonel's
Charge Shot and hit it to make
it turn around. Simple and
Clean. Tomahawkman also has his
own attacks. He'll mostly come
to the front to attack, so just
use Sword Chips to do some
damage. Wait I just contadicted
my first sentence...

********************************
Boss- Tomahawkman
********************************

Cut-Scene

--------------
Steerage Room
--------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to Oran Isle.

Steerage Room >>> Deck >>>
Corridor >>> Luxurious Ship
Platform >>> Front of Kagakushou
>>> Metro >>> Oran Isle

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Head to the Speaker and Plug-
   In.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Head to End Area 1.

Oran Isle Area 1 >>> Oran Isle
Area 2 >>> End Area 1

-----------
End Area 1
-----------

1) Head to the entrance to Area
   2.

Cut-Scene

2) Save. When you're ready head
   through.

================================
4. h. Liberate Mission 4 Lbm4
================================
--------------------------------
End Area 2 /
-----------
     /|               _ _ _
***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 10 ____
_______ |
***********************         
           \|   _|_|_
X- Dark Panel |X|X|X| T- 2 Order
Points _ _ _|X|M|X|_ _ _
3- 3 Order Points               
Z- 2400 Zennys                  
H- Recovery 400
|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|
|_|I|X|X|X|3|X| A- Aqua Whirl 2
O |X|H|X|X|D|X|3|X|X|
|X|X|X|X|X|X|_| P- Bonus Panel
|X|X|X|X|X|B|X|X|X|
|_|X|X|D|X|X|X| 1- Barrier 1
|_|_|X|X|X|X|X|_|_|
|X|X|H|G|X|N|X| 2- Barrier 2
|_|_|_|X|X|X|_|2|2|
|X|X|X|X|X|X|_| I- Barrier Key 1
|P|_|_|X|X|X|_|2|1|_ _ _
_|_|_|X|_|X|_|_| N- Barrier Key
2 |X|X|X|X|X|X| D- Darkness Hole
|X|D|X|X|D|X| G- Garu-Beast 2
********************
|X|G|X|X|G|X| R- Roy-Hawk 2
Boss- Dark Rockman |X|X|X|P|X|X|
B- Bloodia            **********
M- Dark Rockman
|R|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|_|Z|
        |X|X|D|X|A|X|_|
*******                         
Prizes                          
*******                         
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
|START|_|_|_|_| |\
--------------------------------
|   1  ~  8   | Full Custom *   
|   9  ~ 10   | Navi Scout M    
|  11  ~ 99   | 4000 Zennys     
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Saboten Ball 2 Q
Kanketsusen G
Fujin Racket F
Yo Yo E

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 400 Chp: 100 Chg: 70
| Colonel HP: 400 Chp: 100 Chg:
60 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 550 Chp: 100
Chg: 50 | Knightman HP: 550 Chp:
100 Chg: 100 |
 -------------------------------
| Gyroman HP: 300 Chp: 50 Chg:
30 | Shadowman HP: 300 Chp: 80
Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
| Napalmman HP: 300 Chp: 100
Chg: 5 | Tomahawkman HP: 300
Chp: 100 Chg: 60 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     i. Scenario 5            
================================

-------------
Command Room
-------------

Cut-Scene

You get an E-mail from an
unknown person.

1) Read it to learn about the
   Chaos Unison.
2) Talk to Enzan/Barrel to get
   Folder 2.
3) Head to Oran Isle.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Metro
>>> Oran Isle

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Plug-In to the speaker.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Head to End Area 1.

Oran Isle Area 1 >>> Oran Isle
Area 2 >>> End Area 1

-----------
End Area 1
-----------

1) Head down the third hill.
2) Head to the North-West and
   follow the path to the West
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Regular Up +2.
3) Head to End Area 2.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to where Dark Rockman
   was.
2) Head to the West to a Heel
   Navi.
3) Save. Talk to him.

*******
Battle
*******

You get the Dark Recovery H.

4) Now head to the East and
   follow the path to the North
   to Area 3.

-----------
End Area 3
-----------

1) Head to the West.
2) Head to the North to a one
   way path.
3) On the way is a split, but
   just keep following the path
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP Memory.
4) Now head back to the split.
5) Follow that path to a hill.
6) Go up the hill and head to
   the West.
7) Go down the 2nd hill.
8) Follow the path and go up the
   next hill.
9) Follow the path to another
   hill.
10)Go down this hill and follow
   the path to the West.
11)When you get to a one way
   path, head North-West all the
   way to Area 4.

-----------
End Area 4
-----------

1) Head down the hill.
2) Follow the path to the North-
   West.
3) When you get to a maze
   looking place, head to the
   North-East.
4) There should be a transporter
   that's facing the North-East.
5) Ride it and head to the East
   and follow this path to a
   split.
6) At the split take the right
   path and follow it straight
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Spin Yellow.
7) Head back to the split.
8) Run to the left and you
   should see another path going
   to the West.
9) Following the obvious path
   will get you to a
   transporter.
10)Don't take this one. Keep
   following the path to another
   transporter.
11)Take this one and head to the
   North-West to a hill.
12)Go up the hill and follow the
   path to a split.
13)Head to the North-East.
14)You should now come across a
   huge door.

Cut-Scene

----------
Oran Isle
----------

1) Head to the Kagakushou Lobby.

Oran Isle >>> Metro >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Kagakushou Lobby

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Head to the elevator.

Cut-Scene

2) Head through the elevator.

-----------------
Dad's Laboratory
-----------------

1) Go examine the big Gigantic
   Computer.
2) Head to the Front of
   Kagakushou.

Dad's Laboratory >>> Kagakushou
Lobby >>> Front of Kagakushou.

--------------------
Front of Kagakushou
--------------------

1) Go down the stairs and head
   to the East.
2) Talk to Raika/Higure.

Cut-Scene

3) Head back to your Dad's
   Laboratory.

Front of Kagakushou >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Dad's
Laboratory

-----------------
Dad's Laboratory
-----------------

1) Get close to the Giant
   Computer.

Cut-Scene

You get the Grandfather's
Letter.

2) Head to your House.

Dad's Laboratory >>> Kagakushou
Lobby >>> Front of Kagakushou
>>> Metro >>> Akiharachou >>>
Netto's House

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Examine the Dog House
   outside.(From the inside of
   your House)
2) Head to the Abandoned Mine
   Interior 5.

Netto's House >>> Akiharachou
>>> Metro >>> Oran Isle >>>
Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 1 >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 2 >>> Abandoned
Mine >>> Abandoned Mine Interior
3 >>> Abandoned Mine >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 4 >>>
Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 5

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 5
--------------------------

1) Head to the machine and Plug-
   In.

--------------------------
Air Cleaning Machine Comp
--------------------------

1) Head to the East to a glowing
   light.

Cut-Scene

You get the Memory Data.

2) Plug-Out.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the Metro.

Abandoned Mine >>> Oran Isle >>>
Metro

-----------
Map Screen
-----------

1) Head to End City.

---------
End City
---------

1) Follow the path to where
   Raika/Higure is.
2) Talk to them.

Cut-Scene

3) Talk to the Guy behind the
   desk.
4) Now head back and head down
   the stairs.
5) Plug-In to the statue.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to Area 3.

-----------
End Area 3
-----------

1) Remember that Pagoda? (The
   castle looking temple) This
   is the Communication System.
   Head there.

Cut-Scene

2) Plug-Out.

---------
End City
---------

1) Head back to the Guy behind
   the desk.
2) Head inside.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Head to the next room.

----------
Lily Room
----------

1) Head up the stairs and follow
   the path.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Follow the path and up the
   stairs.

-------------
Castle Tower
-------------

1) Head out of here.

Note: Anyone know the name to
this place? The name of this
place is really off
 you know.

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

1) Follow the path and into
   another door.

-------------
Castle Tower
-------------

1) Head up the stairs and follow
   the path.

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

1) Head up the roof to the
   Golden Dragon Fishes.
2) Examine the right one's eyes.

Cut-Scene

You get the Text Data and the
Old Key Data.

3) Head to the other one.
4) Examine the back of it to get
   a HP Memory.
5) Head to your Room.

Outside Castle Tower >>> Castle
Tower >>> Outside Castle Tower
>>> Castle Tower >>>
Chrysanthemum Room >>> Lily Room
>>> Chrysanthemum Room >>> End
City >>> Map Screen >>>
Akiharachou >>> Netto's House
>>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In to your Computer.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Akihara Area 3.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2 >>> Akihara
Area 3

---------------
Akihara Area 3
---------------

1) Follow the path to a split.
2) Take the North-West path into
   a 3x3 square. This is where a
   Bonus Panel is in the
   Liberate Mission.
3) Now head in the middle square
   and walk to the North-East.
4) Examine that area.

Cut-Scene

The Old Key Data reacts and
opens a door.

5) Head through the door.

------------------------
Past Vision Akiharachou
------------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Talk to everyone here.
   Including the Dog.

Cut-Scene

2) Save. Talk to the Heel Navi
   in front of Netto's House.

*******
Battle
*******

3) Now head to Yaito's future
   House.
4) To the left of her House is
   another Heel Navi.
5) Talk to him.

*******
Battle
*******

6) Now head to Dekao's future
   House.
7) Talk to the Heel Navi here.

*******
Battle
*******

8) Now head to where the Metro
   would be.

*******
Battle
*******

9) Head to where Higureya will
   be.
10)Talk to the Heel Navi.

*******
Battle
*******

11)Talk to the Heel Navi to the
   left of Higureya's building.

*******
Battle
*******

Cut-Scene

12)Head to the front of your
   house.

Cut-Scene

13)Head back to Akihara Area 3.

---------------
Akihara Area 3
---------------

1) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Head to the Command Room.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Map Screen
>>> Front of Kagakushou >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Main
Operating Room >>> Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1) Talk to Enzan/Barrel.
2) Now head home.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Map
Screen >>> Akiharachou >>>
Netto's House >>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Sleep.

Cut-Scene

You get an E-mail.

2) Head to End City.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Map Screen
>>> End City

---------
End City
---------

1) Plug-In to the Statue.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to Area 3.

-----------
End Area 3
-----------

1) Go examine the Communication
   System.

Cut-Scene

---------
End City
---------

1) Head inside the Castle.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Head to the next room.

----------
Lily Room
----------

1) Examine the Hologram.
2) Plug-In to the Katana display
   in the East.

------------
Katana Comp
------------

1) Save. Talk to the Green Navi
   in the middle of the area.

*******
Battle
*******

You get the Katana Data.

2) Head to the North to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   HP Memory.
3) Plug-Out.

----------
Lily Room
----------

1) Head to the room before this
   one.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Examine the Armor to your
   right to get a Regular Up +1.
2) Plug-In to the 3rd Armor from
   the left. Or the 2nd Armor
   from the right, which ever
   works for you.

-----------
Armor Comp
-----------

1) Save. Talk to the Green Navi
   in the middle of the area.

*******
Battle
*******

You get the Armor Data.

2) Head to the West to get a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP +100 (Yellow).
3) Plug-Out.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Plug-In to the 1st Helmet
   from the left.

------------
Helmet Comp
------------

1) Save. Talk to the Green Navi
   in the middle of the area.

*******
Battle
*******

You get the Helmet Data. You
know this reminds me of those
Keys you get in the Mansion in
Resident Evil...too bad there's
no Shield Data.

2) Head to the East to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Regular Up +2.
3) Plug-Out.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Head to the Lily Room.

----------
Lily Room
----------

1) Examine the Hologram.
2) Follow the path.

-------------------
Chrysanthemum Room
-------------------

1) Examine the big statue.
2) Take the Wooden Sword and
   start the 100 Man-Cut Mini
   Game. Now let me tell you
   this. This is where most
   people stop playing this
   game. You're going to be
   standing in the middle, and
   these dolls are going to come
   at you from every
   direction.(Up, Right, Down,
   Left) Your mission is to hit
   them with the Wooden Sword
   you just got. The closer you
   get to a 100 the faster they
   come at you. Now why do
   people stop playing the game?
   Simple. It's not them that's
   broken. The handheld system
   they are holding is broken.
   You see the Game Boy Advance
   is fine. Anyone who uses this
   can beat this. The Control
   Pad is big and fat. So it
   actually moves in the
   direction you want it to
   move. The problem is for
   those who uses the Game Boy
   Advance SP, the DS, and the
   DS Lite. Looking at the
   Control Pad they are small.
   When you try to move down
   there is a chance it's still
   facing the direction you were
   facing before that. It's
   hard, but just keep at it. I
   did it with a DS Lite. It
   took me 7 tries to do it.
   Lucky #7!!!
3) When you are done with that
   Mini Game, follow the path.

-------------
Castle Tower
-------------

1) Head to the roof of this
   place.

Castle Tower >>> Outside Castle
Tower >>> Castle Tower >>>
Outside Castle Tower

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head up to the top.
2) Plug-In to the Golden Dragon
   Fish to the left.

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 1
------------------

I'm going to say this...most
annoying level in the game. If
you thought the last three were
annoying, you haven't tasted
annoying. This place is like
Ancient Japan. In Ancient Japan
there were Ninjas!!! Ninjas are
in this area. I'm not joking.
The Program Dudes are Ninjas,
the viruses are Ninjas. The
traps here are made by Ninjas.
Why didn't Capcom make Shadowman
the boss here? He's a Ninja. Oh
well. Back to topic, this place
is going to give you a headache
if you don't use a guide. This
place is going to give a
headache to the person who's
writing this guide...me. Ahh try
to follow everything I say.

In this area, there are 3 types
of traps. There are also 3 types
of Ninjas. You must bring the
right Ninja to the right Trap.
If they correspond, then the
Ninja will help you through the
trap. Here are the rules for
Ninjas.

********
Rule #1
********

If you're running with a Ninja
and you touch another Ninja that
is different color, the Ninjas
will swap. Leaving the Ninja you
had behind.

Example: You're running with a
Red Ninja, and you touch a White
Ninja. The Red
  Ninja will stand where the
  White Ninja was and the White
  Ninja will follow you from
  there.

********
Rule #2
********

If you're running with a Ninja
and you touch another Ninja that
is the same color as the one you
have, that Ninja will also
follow you. Up to 3 Ninjas will
follow you.

Example: You're running with a
Blue Ninja, and you touch a Blue
Ninja. The Blue Ninja will also
follow you.

********
Rule #3
********

When you're running with two or
more Ninjas and you touch
another Ninja that is another
color, the one following in you
in front will stay and the one
that you just touched will
follow you from the back.

Example: You're running with 2
White Ninjas, and you touch a
Red Ninja. The
  White Ninja in front will stay
  and the Red Ninja will follow
  you from the back.

Cut-Scene

1) Start by running foward. Talk
   to the Program Dude for more
   information.
2) Head to the left at the
   split.
3) Follow the path to a Red
   Ninja. Touch it to make it
   follow you.
4) Head back to the split.
5) Follow the right path to
   another split.
6) Head to the left to your
   first trap.

Cut-Scene

7) Tight!!! Now touch the White
   Ninja right by you.
8) Take the right path at the
   split.
9) Take the transporter.
10)Follow the path to the West.
   Then to the North to a split.
11)Take the obvious path. First
   head to the North-East and
   follow this path to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Rapid +1 (Pink).
12)Head back to the split and
   take the other path to
   another trap.

Cut-Scene

13)He can Jump!!! Follow the
   path until you see a Blue
   Ninja.
14)This part is a little
   confusing. Get the White
   Ninja to follow you.
15)Now head to the Blue Ninja to
   switch them.
16)Now follow the path to a Red
   Ninja. Switch them and head
   to the North-West to a
   transporter.
17)Now follow the path back to
   where you were with the White
   Ninja.
18)Head to where the Blue Ninja
   is and switch. After
   switching head to the North-
   East.
19)Switch the Blue Ninja with
   the White Ninja here.
20)Now go around the square
   thing back to the Blue Ninja
   and switch.
21)Follow the path to another
   trap.

Cut-Scene

22)Huh that looked like the same
   move the Red Ninja does. I
   guess the Red Ninja can't run
   over water. And the Blue
   Ninja has cold feet at the
   Spears. It all makes
   sense...follow the path to a
   Red Ninja.
23)Follow the path to a Blue
   Ninja and switch.
24)Go around the square and
   switch again.
25)Follow the path to a White
   Ninja. Switch with the White
   Ninja and head to the North-
   West and follow this path to
   a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP Memory.
26)Head back and switch with the
   Red Ninja and head to the
   North-East to the final trap
   of this area.

Cut-Scene

27)Head to the next area.

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 2
------------------

1) Follow the path to a split.
2) Take the leftmost path.
3) Follow the path to a Blue
   Ninja. Make him follow you.
4) Now head to the North-West to
   a White Ninja. Switch.
5) Follow the path to the East
   to a trap.

Cut-Scene

6) Follow the path until you see
   a transporter.
7) Head South without touching
   any Ninjas on the way. There
   should be a Blue Mystery Data
   here that contains a Regular
   Up +2.
8) You should also see a Blue
   Ninja right by you. Touch him
   and head to the South to
   switch with a Red Ninja.
9) Now head to the North-East to
   another Blue Ninja. Switch
   again and follow the path to
   a White Ninja.
10)Switch with this White Ninja
   and take the transporter.
11)Head back to where you left
   the Red Ninja.
12)Switch again and follow the
   path to the Blue Ninja.
   Switch and head to the East
   to the transporter here.
13)Now switch again with the Red
   Ninja. Now you should have
   the Red Ninja in the end.
14)Follow the path to a trap.

Cut-Scene

15)Now follow the path to a
   split.(Not the one with the
   transporter)
16)Follow the path which ever
   way you want to a Blue Ninja.
17)Now head to the left
   transporter.
18)Head to the North-West to
   pass the Red Ninjas and head
   to the South from here to get
   to a trap.

Cut-Scene

19)Take the White Ninja here to
   the North to a transporter.
20)You should soon meet with a
   Red Ninja. Switch.
21)Follow the path to another
   transporter.
22)Head South and take the
   transporter.
23)Remember this place? Well
   head to the left transporter
   again.
24)Take the transporter in the
   North.
25)Follow the path back to the
   White Ninja. Switch once
   again.
26)Head to the transporter and
   head to the East around the
   Red Ninjas and head to the
   North to another trap.

Cut-Scene

27)Follow the path to a
   transporter.
28)Follow the path to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Mega Energy Bomb C.
29)Now head back to the place
   after the trap.
30)Follow the path and head to
   the South to a Red Ninja.
31)Head to the East and switch
   with the Blue Ninja.
32)Head to the North-East and
   switch with the White Ninja.
33)Head to the West then to the
   South to switch with the Red
   Ninja.
34)Now head to the South-East to
   encounter another White
   Ninja.
35)Switch and head to the North
   to switch with the Blue
   Ninja.
36)Head back to where the Red
   Ninja is and switch.
37)Now head South-East to find
   another Red Ninja.
38)There should be 2 Red Ninjas
   following you now. Head to
   the North and follow the path
   to the last trap of this
   area.

Cut-Scene

39)That is so cool!!! Follow the
   path to Area 3. Getting a
   Headache yet?

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 3
------------------

1) Follow the path until you get
   to a transporter.
2) Follow the next steps
   carefully. Head to the East
   and follow to meet with a
   Blue Ninja.
3) Make him follow you and take
   the transporter.
4) Now follow the path to the
   North to meet another Blue
   Ninja. Do NOT make him follow
   you.
5) Run around him to another
   area with transporters.
6) Head to the South-East until
   you see a White Ninja. Take
   him and follow the path to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP +100 (Pink).
   Head back to where you got
   the White Ninja.
7) Take the transporter facing
   to the South-West to a Red
   Ninja. Switch.
8) Take the transporter right
   next to you.
9) Head to the West and get on
   the transporter. Back to
   where we started.
10)Head to the left and switch
   with the White Ninja.
11)Follow the path to the South-
   East to switch with a Red
   Ninja.
12)Head back to the other Red
   Ninja. Now you should have 2
   Red Ninjas with you for your
   hard work.
13)Head back to where all those
   transporters are without
   touching any other Ninjas on
   the way.
14)Head to where that White
   Ninja is.
15)This time take the
   transporter facing to the
   North-East.
16)Head to the North-West while
   passing other Ninjas to get
   to a trap.

Cut-Scene

17)At the split take the path
   heading to the South and
   follow the path to a trap.
18)It seems we need 2 Blue
   Ninjas. Follow the path right
   next to you to a split.
19)Take the middle path to a
   White Ninja.
20)Head East at the next split
   to a Red Ninja. Switch.
21)Take the transporter.
22)Follow the path to the West
   to a White Ninja. Switch.
23)Switch with the Red One to
   the left.
24)Now head South to come back
   to the split.
25)Head to the East to the White
   Ninja. Switch.
26)Take the transporter.
27)Follow the other path to a
   trap.

Cut-Scene

28)To the South of the trap is a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP Memory.
29)Head to the North to get a
   Blue Ninja.
30)Now head back to the trap and
   follow the path to the Red
   Ninja. Switch.
31)Switch with the White Ninja
   right next to you.
32)Now head South to come back
   to the split.
33)Head to the East to the Red
   Ninja. Switch.
34)Take the transporter.
35)Follow the path to the West
   to switch with the Blue
   Ninja.
36)Take the transporter right
   next to you.
37)From where you are standing
   head to the South-West and
   follow the path to a
   transporter.
38)Take it and take the other
   Blue Ninja to get 2 Blue
   Ninjas following you.
39)Head back to the trap.

Cut-Scene

40)Head to Area 4.

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 4
------------------

This area is a pain in the
ass!!! Make sure you are
following the guide or you're
screwed.

1) Head foward to a split.
2) Take the right path, but
   don't go on the transporter.
   Keep following the path to
   the West.
3) Don't touch the White Ninja.
   Keep following the path to a
   Red Ninja.
4) Now head to the transporter
   you didn't take. Without
   touching other Ninjas.
5) Swap with the White Ninja and
   take the transporter.
6) Take the right path to a
   transporter.
7) You're back to the beginning
   of the area.
8) Follow the path back to the
   transporter you took in Step
   4.
9) Swap with the Red Ninja and
   take the transporter.
10)Take the other path you
   didn't take to a area with a
   White Ninja and a Blue Ninja.
11)Swap with the White Ninja.
12)Now swap with the Blue Ninja
   heading to the North-East.
13)Now go switch the Blue Ninja
   with the Red Ninja.
14)Keep following the path to
   another area with a White
   Ninja and a Blue Ninja
   waiting.
15)Switch with the White Ninja.
16)Now take the transporter in
   the middle and switch back
   with the Red Ninja.
17)Follow the path to the South
   to get to another Red Ninja.
   Now you have 2.
18)Take the other path to a
   transporter.
19)Head to the North-East until
   you get to a Blue Ninja.
20)Run around him and keep
   heading to the North-East.
21)At the last corner, turn to
   get your 3rd Red Ninja.
22)Run back to where the Blue
   Ninja is.
23)Head to the West directly
   from there to get to a trap.

Cut-Scene

24)Wow...follow the path to a
   long transporter.
25)Follow the path to see a
   trap. That's the last trap
   you have to get through just
   so you know. Now take the
   path to the left and follow
   it to a transporter.
26)Follow the path to a split.
27)Take the North-West path and
   head South at the split.
28)Keep following the path to a
   transporter without touching
   any of the Ninjas around you.
29)Head South-West and then to
   the North-West to a White
   Ninja. Make him follow you.
30)Head to the South-East. There
   should be a Red Ninja and a
   transporter here.
31)Head to the South-West and
   switch with the Red Ninja.
32)Go around the square to
   switch with the White Ninja.
33)Head to the West to a
   transporter.
34)Follow the path to a Red
   Ninja. Switch.
35)Head to the West to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains an
   Iai Form R.
36)Head back to the White Ninja
   and switch.
37)Follow the path to the East
   then to the South to meet
   your last White Ninja in your
   life. Unless you're going to
   play again.
38)Head back a corner to the
   trap.

Cut-Scene

39)Man they know how to jump.
   Touch the Blue Ninja to make
   him follow you.
40)Head back to where the Iai
   Form was.
41)Switch with the Red Ninja and
   run around the square to
   switch again.
42)Take the next transporter you
   see.
43)Follow the path and switch
   with the Red Ninja. Now
   switch again by running
   around the square.
44)Head to the North-East to an
   area with a transporter and a
   Red Ninja.
45)Go North-East from there to
   another area with a
   transporter with a Red Ninja.
46)To the right of the Red Ninja
   is a path that takes you to
   another Blue Ninja. That's 2
   Blue Ninjas.
47)Head back to the area with
   the transporter and the Red
   Ninja. Head to the North-West
   from here to a transporter.
48)Take the one that heads to
   the North-East. Follow the
   path to the North-West to the
   last Blue Ninja.
49)Head to the transporter to
   the East from here.
50)Follow to the East more to
   another transporter.
51)Head to the trap.

Cut-Scene

52)Stop. You now have a choice.
   You can keep following my
   guide to go get a Regular Up
   +2, or you can just follow
   the path. Your choice. I
   would go get that Regular Up
   +2 if I were you.
53)Remember where you got the
   2nd Blue Ninja? Head there.
   Oh no more Ninjas.
54)Now from there head to the
   North-West to a transporter.
   Don't take the first one you
   see. There's another one more
   to the West.
55)Head to the West to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains
   the Regular Up +2.
56)Now head back to the trap
   that we just finished.
57)Save. Follow the newly opened
   path. Finally we're done!!!

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Searchman
********************************

HP: 800 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Invisible,
Thunder Ball Reward: Searchman
back on your side

If you've played Exe 4 before,
he's not the same. He threw his
grendaes in 4, but in 5 he rolls
them. The rest is the same. Turn
into Magnet Soul. Just keep
using your Charge Shot. It'll
make him paralyze. Just keep
using chips after paralyzing
him. This makes this battle
really easy. Just make sure not
to get hit by his Search
Grenades. Charge while moving.

********************************
Boss- Searchman
********************************

********************************
Boss- Numberman
********************************

HP: 600 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Invisible,
Blind, Yo Yo, Vulcan Reward:
Numberman back on your side

If you've played Exe, or 4 you
know how he fights. He sends
Number Balls with different
numbers on them. You must do the
damage that's on the ball before
it hits you to get away from its
explosion. He also has Number
Traps. You step on the switch
and it'll activate. If you use
Blind, all of his Number Balls
and Dice Bomb will only be 1.

********************************
Boss- Numberman
********************************

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

1) Head to End City. (Yeah it's
   wierd, you're already in End
   City)

Outside Castle Tower >>> Castle
Tower >>> Outside Castle Tower
>>> Castle Tower >>>
Chrysanthemum Room >>> Lily Room
>>> Chrysanthemum Room >>> End
City

---------
End City
---------

1) Go Plug-In to the statue.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to End Area 4.

End Area 2 >>> End Area 3 >>>
End Area 4

-----------
End Area 4
-----------

1) Head to that huge door.

Cut-Scene

2) Save. When you're ready head
   through.

================================
4. j. Liberate Mission 5 Lbm5
================================
--------------------------------
End Area 5 /
-----------
              / \
***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 9 /_ _\
***********************         
    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  | |_
X- Dark Panel                   
W- 2 Order Points
|_|X|X|H|T|X|X|X|_| |_ |_ O- 3
Order Points |_|V|P|X|X|X|D|X|_|
|_ |_
Q- 800 Zennys                   
U- 1000 Zennys
|_|T|X|X|B|X|P|X|_| |_ _ _ |
V- 1200 Zennys                  
Y- 1800 Zennys
|_|X|X|X|W|X|X|X|_| |X|X|X| Z-
2500 Zennys |_|X|X|M|X|X|X|M|_|
|X|C|X|
H- Recovery 500                 
A- Mark Cannon 2 D |2|2|_
|3|3|3|3|
E- Kakigenkin K                 
F- Met Guard 2 B
****************
|_|X|D|X|X|X|B|X|X| P- Bonus
Panel Boss- Cosmoman
|_|X|R|X|M|K|D|X|
1- Barrier 1             *******
2- Barrier 2                    
3- Barrier 3                    
I- Barrier Key 1 |X|X|X|
_|_|_|X|X|_|_|_|T|X|O|_| N-
Barrier Key 2 |M|_
_|_|_|X|F|G|M|_|_|X|M|X|_| S-
Barrier Key 3
|_|X|X|X|X|T|X|D|X|X|_|X|X|_| K-
Bug Piece |T|B|X|P|X|X|U|X|X|X|
T- 50 Damage                    
M- Paralyze                     
D- Darkness Hole                
G- Garu-Beast 2                 
R- Roy-Hawk 2                   
B- Bloodia                      
C- Cosmoman                     
            |_|_|_|
********                        
Prizes                          
********                        
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 7 | Cosmoman SP C | | 8 ~
9 | Cosmoman C | | 10 ~ 99 |
5000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Long Blade P
Drill Arm 2 L
Tsunami Hole E
Stealth Mine H

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: --- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 450 Chp: 120 Chg: 80
| Colonel HP: 450 Chp: 120 Chg:
70 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 600 Chp: 100
Chg: 50 | Knightman HP: 600 Chp:
100 Chg: 100 |
 -------------------------------
| Napalmman HP: 350 Chp: 100
Chg: 5 | Tomahawkman HP: 350
Chp: 100 Chg: 60 |
 -------------------------------
| Searchman HP: 300 Chp: 100
Chg: 10 | Numberman HP: 300 Chp:
120 Chg: 10 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     k. Scenario 6            
================================

------------
Akiharachou
------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to the Command Room.

Akiharachou >>> Map Screen >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Main
Operating Room >>> Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1) Talk to Enzan/Barrel.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to your Room.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Map
Screen >>> Akiharachou >>>
Netto's House >>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to Past Vision
   Akiharachou.

Netto's HP >>> Akihara Area 1
>>> Akihara Area 2 >>> Akihara
Area 3 >>> Past Vision
Akiharachou

------------------------
Past Vision Akiharachou
------------------------

1) Head to the back of your
   House.

Cut-Scene

2) Head back to Akihara Area 3.

---------------
Akihara Area 3
---------------

1) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Head downstairs.

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Go talk to your Mom.

Cut-Scene

You get Gau's Picture.

You get a E-mail that contains
the Shachihoko Castle's P Code.

2) Head to the Abandoned Mine.

Netto's House >>> Akiharachou
>>> Map Screen >>> Oran Isle >>>
Abandoned Mine

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the South of this
   place to a place with junk.
2) Examine it to get a Regular
   Up +1.
3) Now head North and go up the
   hill.
4) Talk to the guy.

Cut-Scene

5) Now head into the Mine from
   the bottom floor.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 1
--------------------------

1) Head to the Elevator.
2) Get on.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 2
--------------------------

1) Head out from here.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the other entrance.

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 3
--------------------------

1) Head down the hill all the
   way and exit.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Follow the path to a guy.
2) Talk to him and buy the
   Nebula ID for 3000 Zennys.
3) Now head back to the
   Abandoned Mine Interior 1.

Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 3 >>> Abandoned
Mine >>> Abandoned Mine Interior
2 >>> Abandoned Mine Interior 1

--------------------------
Abandoned Mine Interior 1
--------------------------

1) Head to the split.
2) Head up the hill and exit.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Plug-In to the speaker.

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

1) Follow the path to the Navi.
2) Talk to him.

You get the Old P Code.

3) Plug-Out.

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the Command Room.

Abandoned Mine >>> Oran Isle >>>
Map Screen >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Kagakushou Lobby
>>> Main Operating Room >>>
Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1) Plug-In to the Computer to
   the left.

----------------
Kagakushou's HP
----------------

1) Follow the path. On the way
   is a Program Dude that will
   give you the Kagakushou
   Banner.
2) Take the warp.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 2
------------------

1) Head to the South.
2) You remember this place
   right? Head to Kagakushou
   Area 3.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 3
------------------

1) Head to where Cloudman was in
   Liberate Mission 3.
2) To the left is a Security
   Cube. Open it with the Old P
   Code.
3) Take the warp.

------------------
Old Terminal Comp
------------------

1) Take a left at the split.
2) At the next split, take a
   right to get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Regular Up +2.
3) Keep following the path to a
   warp.

---------------
Akihara Area 2
---------------

1) Follow the path to a Navi.
2) Talk to him.

Cut-Scene

You get the Past Key Data.

3) Plug-Out.

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1) Head to the Great Cavern.

Command Room >>> Kagakushou
Lobby >>> Front of Kagakushou
>>> Map Screen >>> Oran Isle >>>
Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 1 >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 2 >>> Abandoned
Mine >>> Abandoned Mine Interior
3 >>> Abandoned Mine >>>
Abandoned Mine Interior 4 >>>
Abandoned Mine >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 7 >>> Abandoned
Mine Interior 8 >>> Great Cavern

-------------
Great Cavern
-------------

1) Plug-In to the Rock Drlling
   Comp 4.

---------------------
Rock Drilling Comp 4
---------------------

1) Remember in Scenario 2 when
   you had to use the Suspension
   Key? Head there. It's at the
   end of the area.

Cut-Scene

2) Head through the door.

----------------------
Past Vision Oran Isle
----------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Talk to everyone here.

Cut-Scene

2) Now head to where the Bamboo
   Trees are.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Abandoned Mine
---------------

1) Head to the Command Room.

Abandoned Mine >>> Oran Isle >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>>
Kagakushou Lobby >>> Main
Operating Room >>> Command Room

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1)Plug-In.

----------------
Kagakushou's HP
----------------

1) Save.
2) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

*********
Battle 1
*********

*********
Battle 2
*********

*********
Battle 3
*********

Cut-Scene

-------------
Command Room
-------------

1) Talk to Enzan/Barrel.

Cut-Scene

You get a E-mail from Meiru.
Read it to get Roll SP R.

2) Head to Higureya.

Command Room >>> Main Operating
Room >>> Kagakushou Lobby >>>
Front of Kagakushou >>> Map
Screen >>> Akiharachou >>>
Higureya

---------
Higureya
---------

1) Talk to Higure.
2) Head to End City.

Higureya >>> Akiharachou >>> Map
Screen >>> End City

---------
End City
---------

1) Head to the Statue and Plug-
   In.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to Area 3.

-----------
End Area 3
-----------

1) Head to the Communication
   System.(Castle)
2) Go behind it and examine.

You get the Data File.

3) Plug-Out.

---------
End City
---------

1) Head to Higureya.

End City >>> Map Screen >>>
Akiharachou >>> Higureya

---------
Higureya
---------

1) Talk to Higure.

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Higureya Secret Base
---------------------

Cut-Scene

Cut-Scene

1) Head to the left to the
   Computers.
2) Examine them to get a HP
   Memory.
3) Now head to where the boxes
   are.
4) Behind the boxes is a path.
   Head to the end and Plug-In.

------------------
Old Computer Comp
------------------

1) Head to the West to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Regular Up +1.
2) Head to the East to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Spin Pink.
3) Plug-Out.

---------------------
Higureya Secret Base
---------------------

1) Head to End City.

Higureya Secret Base >>>
Higureya >>> Akiharachou >>> Map
Screen >>> End City

---------
End City
---------

1) Head to the Statue and Plug-
   In.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to Area 5.

-----------
End Area 5
-----------

1) Head to where Cosmoman was in
   Liberate Mission 5.

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Higureya Secret Base
---------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head to your Room.

Higureya Secret Base >>>
Higureya >>> Akiharachou >>>
Netto's House >>> Netto's Room

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Sleep.

Cut-Scene

2) Head to End City.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou >>> Map Screen
>>> End City

---------
End City
---------

1) Head to the Statue and Plug-
   In.

-----------
End Area 2
-----------

1) Head to Area 5.

-----------
End Area 5
-----------

1) Head to where Cosmoman was in
   Liberate Mission 5.
2) Follow the newly opened
   pathto the Ura Internet.

---------------
Ura Internet 1
---------------

Welcome to the Ura Internet.
Home to the Evil Navis, home to
the Evil Viruses, and the
entrance to the Nebula Hole.
Well you get what I'm getting
to? It's going to be tough from
here. Especially now, because
there are Corpse Candles flying
everywhere in this area. If one
attaches to you and you run into
battle there are side effects.
Your HP may deplete every
second, when you move a crack
will appear in your side of the
field, or Rockman will start the
battle in Fear mode. Meaning you
can't Soul Unison at once. So
Save often.

1) Follow the path to the 2nd
   hill.
2) Go up the hill to a Net
   Merchant.
3) Buy 3 Open Locks. You should
   have Zennys because I haven't
   told you to buy anything else
   for awhile.
4) Now head back to the first
   hill you passed.
5) Go up this hill and follow
   the path to a transporter.
6) Take it and go down the hill.
7) Don't go up the 1st hill you
   see. Keep following the path
   to another hill.
8) Go up this one and take the
   transporter.
9) Go up the hill and follow the
   path down another hill.
10)Then another hill.
11)You now have a choice. You
   can get a Blue Mystery Data,
   but you'll have to repeat
   steps 4~10 again. I would do
   it. If you are take the
   transporter. Then follow the
   path to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Soul Time +1
   (White). Worth it? Now take
   the transporter right next to
   you and repeat steps 4~10
   again.
12)Follow the path and up
   another hill.
13)Then another.
14)Take the transporter.
15)Go down the next hill.
16)Go up the next hill you see
   to a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP Memory.
17)Now head back to the
   transporter.
18)Go up the hill to the left to
   Ura Internet 2.

---------------
Ura Internet 2
---------------

1) Take the transporter.
2) Follow the path to the left
   to a warp.
3) Head to the West from here to
   a path that leads you to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Regular Up +3.
4) Head back to where the warp
   is.
5) Now head to the North to
   another path. Stop at the
   split.
6) Head to the South-East path
   and follow the path to
   another warp.
7) Take the warp.
8) Follow the North-West path to
   a Purple Mystery Data. It
   contains a Neo Variable Sword
   V.
9) Now head back to the warp.
10)Follow the path to another
   warp.
11)Go up the hill and follow the
   path to go down a hill.
12)Head to the East and there
   should be a Heel Navi nearby.
13)Talk to him and buy Roll DS R
   for 3000 Zennys.
14)Follow the path to the North
   to Ura Internet 3.

---------------
Ura Internet 3
---------------

1) Take the left path and head
   straight to a transporter.
   Take it.
2) Now take the transporter
   right next to you.
3) To the South is another
   transporter that's facing to
   the South-East.
4) After taking the transporter
   head to the West to a Purple
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Expansion Memory.
5) Now head to the East and take
   the transporter here.
6) Follow the path to another
   transporter.
7) Take the North transporter.
8) Take the transporter right
   next to you.
9) Head to the West to another
   transporter.
10)Follow the path to a hill.
11)Save. Go up the hill and
   follow the path when you're
   ready.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Medi
********************************

HP: 900 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Bubble Wrap Reward: Medi in your
team

Medi is a easy navi to delete. I
did not even get hit on my first
try of fighting her. I got the
Bubble Wrap on my first turn and
just used my chips. She's a
really easy boss. She throws
Capsules at you. When they land,
they point in the direction they
explode. Not hard.

********************************
Boss- Medi
********************************

********************************
Boss- Toadman
********************************

HP: 700 Element: Aqua/Elec
Recommended Chips: Thunder Ball,
Cloudman Reward: Toadman in your
team

Toadman is actually Aqua
elemented, but one of his
attacks are Elec elemented.
Meaning that they will paralyze
you if you get hit. It's called
the Shocking Melody. He sends a
Musical Note (Eigth Note) at
you. Not hard to dodge. Another
attack he uses is the Kero Kero
Frog.(I thought he was a Toad?)
He sends a Frog that jumps into
your field and leaves. If you're
going to use Cloudman, this is
how you use it. Wait for Toadman
to use his Kaeru Punch. (Frog
Punch) You should also stand in
the back row. He'll jump into
your field in front of you to
Punch you. USe the Cloudman at
this moment to get 4 Clouds
appear.

********************************
Boss- Toadman
********************************

Cut-Scene

12)Save. Now head through to Ura
   Internet 4.

================================
4. l. Liberate Mission 6 Lbm6
================================
--------------------------------
Ura Internet 4 /
---------------
               _
***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 10 _|X|X|X|_
***********************         
|X|X|X|      _ _ _ _       _ _ _
X- Dark Panel                   
W- 2 Order Points |X|X|X|
_|P|X|M|X|H|X|_|X|X|X|X|I| O- 3
Order Points |G|D|X|
|_|X|O|X|V|X|X|_|X|B|H|X|_| Q-
1000 Zennys |X|X|X|
|X|E|B|S|X|M|X|_|X|X|X|X| U-
1200 Zennys _|X|B|X| |K|X|D|X|W|
|X|_|M| V- 1300 Zennys |X|X|X|_
|X|X|X|X| _|X|_|X|_ Y- 1600
Zennys |2|2|2|2|_ |1|1|_
|P|X|X|X|X|
Z- 2000 Zennys                  
H- Recovery 600
|X|X|X|X|_|_|_|_|_| |_|X|G|O|X|
E- Hiraishin N
|X|X|Z|X|X|_|_|_|_|_ |X|X|X|_ S-
Space Yura 2 C
|P|X|X|X|X|X|X|T|_|_| |X|Q|X|_|
P- Bonus Panel |X|T|D|R|O|X|X|_|
_|_|X|X|_|
1- Barrier 1                    
2- Barrier 2                    
I- Barrier Key 1
******************** |X|N|X|
_|X|K|X|X|_|_| N- Barrier Key 2
Boss- Dark Blues/
_|_|_|X|D|X|_|X| K- Bug Piece
Dark Colonel _|_|_|X|_|B|X|X|
T- 50 Damage          **********
M- Paralyze                     
D- Darkness Hole |_|_|X|_|X|X|_|
G- Garu-Beast 3                 
R- Roy-Hawk 3                   
B- Bloodia 3                    
L- Dark Blues/Dark Colonel _
_|START|
         \ |   |_|_|_|
*******                         
Prizes
*******
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 8 | Z Saber Z | | 9 ~ 10 |
Blues B |
|             | Colonel C       
| 11 ~ 99 | 5000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Element Rage K
Bamboo Lance *
Death Match 3 O
Bad Medecine P

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: --- |
 -------------------------------
| Gyroman HP: 400 Chp: 70 Chg:
30 | Shadowman HP: 400 Chp: 100
Chg: 100 |
 -------------------------------
| Napalmman HP: 400 Chp: 120
Chg: 7 | Tomahawkman HP: 400
Chp: 120 Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
| Searchman HP: 350 Chp: 100
Chg: 10 | Numberman HP: 350 Chp:
140 Chg: 20 |
 -------------------------------
| Medi HP: 300 Chp: 80 Chg: 80 |
Toadman HP: 300 Chp: 100 Chg: 80
|
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
4.     m. Scenario 7            
================================

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

Cut-Scene

1) Talk to your Mom.

You get the Good Luck Charm.

2) Head outside.

------------
Akiharachou
------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head behind Meiru's House.
2) Examine the tree right there.
3) Plug-In.

----------
Tree Comp
----------

1) Head to the South.
2) Then to the North-East to a
   Blue Mystery Data to get a HP
   Memory.
3) Save.
4) Head to the center area.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Searchman V2
********************************

HP: 1000 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Invisible,
Thunder Ball Reward: Searchman
back on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Searchman V2
********************************

********************************
Boss- Numberman V2
********************************

HP: 900 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Invisible,
Blind, Yo Yo, Vulcan Reward:
Numberman back on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Numberman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to Higureya Secret Base.

Akiharachou >>> Higureya >>>
Higureya Secret Base

---------------------
Higureya Secret Base
---------------------

1) Talk to Enzan/Barrel.
2) Head to Kagakushou Lobby.

Higureya Secret Base >>>
Higureya >>> Akiharachou >>> Map
Screen >>> Front of Kagakushou
>>> Kagakushou Lobby

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Head up the stairs.
2) Head to the left to 2
   machines.
3) Plug-In to the right one.

--------------
Terminal Comp
--------------

1) Head to the West then to the
   North-East to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Bug
   Piece.
2) Save.
3) Now head to the center area.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Magnetman V2
********************************

HP: 800 Element: Elec
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Drill Arm Reward: Magnetman back
on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Magnetman V2
********************************

********************************
Boss- Knightman V2
********************************

HP: 900 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Drill Arm, Gun Del Sol Reward:
Knightman back on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Knightman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

-----------------
Kagakushou Lobby
-----------------

1) Now head to the Deck.

Kagakushou Lobby >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Luxurious Ship
Platform >>> Corridor >>> Deck

-----
Deck
-----

1) Save. Head to where you were
   about to fight Nenji/Dingo.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Napalmman V2
********************************

HP: 1000 Element: Fire
Recommended Chips: Air Hockey,
Area Steal, Aqua Whirl,
Blizzardman Reward: Napalmman
back on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Napalmman V2
********************************

********************************
Boss- Tomahawkman V2
********************************

HP: 900 Element: Wood
Recommended Chips: Fire Punch,
Yo Yo, P.A Dream Sword Reward:
Tomahawkman back on your side

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Tomahawkman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

------------------------
Net Battle Machine Comp
------------------------

Cut-Scene

-----
Deck
-----

1) Head to Outside Castle Tower.

Deck >>> Corridor >>> Luxurious
Ship Platform >>> Front of
Kagakushou >>> Map Screen >>>
End City >>> Chrysanthemum Room
>>> Lily Room >>> Chrysanthemum
Room >>> Castle Tower >>>
Outside Castle Tower >>> Castle
Tower >>> Outside Castle Tower

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

1) Head to the top.
2) Plug-In to the Shachihoko.

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 1
------------------

1) Ahh we're back here again.
   Head to Shachihoko Comp 4. It
   should be easy now because
   there's no Ninjas and traps.

Shachihoko Comp 1 >>> Shachihoko
Comp 2 >>> Shachihoko Comp 3 >>>
Shachihoko Comp 4

------------------
Shachihoko Comp 4
------------------

1) Head to where you fought
   Searchman/Numberman.
2) Before you go all the way
   Save.
3) Meet Gyroman/Shadowman. Ahh a
   Ninja in a Ninja area about
   time it makes sense.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Gyroman
********************************

HP: 800
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Wide Sword
Reward: Gyroman's Recognition

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Gyroman
********************************

********************************
Boss- Shadowman
********************************

HP: 700
Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Spread Gun
Reward: Shadowman's Recognition

You should already know how to
fight this guy. He just got more
HP and his attacks just do a
little more damage.

********************************
Boss- Shadowman
********************************

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Outside Castle Tower
---------------------

1) Head to Castle Tower.

Outside Castle Tower >>> Castle
Tower >>> Outside Castle Tower
>>> Castle Tower

-------------
Castle Tower
-------------

1) Go Plug-In to the statue.

-----------------------
Shachihoko Castle's HP
-----------------------

1) Head South.
2) After taking the transporter,
   talk to the Program Dude to
   your left to get the
   Shachihoko Castle's Banner.
3) Now head South to get to a
   warp.

-----------
End Area 3
-----------

1) Open the Cube with the
   Shachihoko Castle's P Code.
2) Head to the right to figure
   out where you are.
3) Head to Ura Internet 4

End Area 3 >>> End Area 4 >>>
End Area 5 >>> Ura Internet 1
>>> Ura Internet 2 >>> Ura
Internet 3 >>> Ura Internet 4

---------------
Ura Internet 4
---------------

1) Now head to where Dark
   Blues/Dark Colonel was.

Cut-Scene

---------------------
Higureya Secret Base
---------------------

Cut-Scene

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Head to your House.

--------------
Netto's House
--------------

1) Talk to your Mom.

Cut-Scene

You get the Data Disk.

2) Head to your Room.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head to the Kagakushou
   Banner.

----------------
Kagakushou's HP
----------------

1) Head to Kagakushou Area 3.

Kagakushou's HP >>> Kagakushou
Area 2 >>> Kagakushou Area 3

------------------
Kagakushou Area 3
------------------

1) Head to where the Barrier Key
   2 was in Liberate Mission 3.
2) Examine the area.

Cut-Scene

3) Head through the door.

-----------------------
Past Vision Kagakushou
-----------------------

Cut-Scene

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Plug-In.

-----------
Netto's HP
-----------

1) Head back to the Past Vision
   Kagakushou.

Netto's HP >>> Kagakushou's HP
>>> Kagakushou Area 2 >>>
Kagakushou Area 3 >>> Past
Vision Kagakushou

-----------------------
Past Vision Kagakushou
-----------------------

1) Examine the stuff in the
   South Corner to get a Regular
   Up +1. I know we came all the
   way here just for this.
2) Get out of here.

------------------
Kagakushou Area 3
------------------

1) Plug-Out.

-------------
Netto's Room
-------------

1) Sleep.

Cut-Scene

2) Head outside.

Netto's Room >>> Netto's House
>>> Akiharachou

------------
Akiharachou
------------

1) Go to Higureya.
2) Talk to Enzan/Barrel.

Cut-Scene

-----------------
Front of Factory
-----------------

Cut-Scene

1) Follow the path to a set of
   stairs.
2) Don't go up the hill. Instead
   follow the path to the right
   to another set of stairs.
3) Head up the stairs.
4) Follow the path to the Pipe.
   Ignore the door for now.
5) Plug-In to the Pipe.

-----------------
Pipe Device Comp
-----------------

1) Head to the West to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a HP Memory.
2) Plug-Out.

-----------------
Front of Factory
-----------------

1) Head through the door.

----------------
Factory Hallway
----------------

1) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

You get Delta Ray Edge Z/Cross
Divide C. Put it in your folder.

2) Now head through the double
   doors with a red light bulb
   thing on top.

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Head foward and Plug-In to
   the machine that everyone's
   looking at.

----------------
Chip Maker Comp
----------------

1) Head to the North to get a
   Dark Circle R.
2) Plug-Out.

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

1) Follow the path to the right.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Factory Comp 1
---------------

Now you should know this by now,
this game is telling you to use
Teamwork. Teamwork is very
important in this area. You
cannot go on from here unless
you work together with your Team
Members. Switch Navis to work
together to open doors and go
through obstacles.

Cut-Scene

1) Switch to
   Magnetman/Knightman. Head
   foward to a split.
2) Take the right path and
   follow it to a Cannon.

Cut-Scene

3) Step on the switch.
4) Switch to Rockman. Head
   foward and get on the
   transporter.
5) Take the left path and follow
   it to a switch.
6) Step on it.
7) Switch to
   Magnetman/Knightman. Take the
   transporter right next to
   you.
8) Head back to the split.
9) Now follow the left path to
   where the Blue Door was.
10)Follow the path to where the
   transporters are.
11)Rockman went left. You're
   going right. Follow the path
   to another Cannon. On the way
   is a Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Mega Cannon F.

Cut-Scene

12)Step on the switch.
13)Switch to Rockman. Head back
   to where the transporters
   are.
14)Take the next transporter.
15)Take the left path and follow
   the path to the South-West to
   get to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a HP Memory.
16)Head back to where the
   transporters are.
17)This time take the right path
   and follow it to another
   switch.
18)Step on it.
19)Switch to
   Magnetman/Knightman. Head to
   the door that Rockman just
   unlocked.
20)Follow the path to the
   transporters.
21)Head to the left path and
   follow it to a split.
22)Take the North-West path to a
   Cannon.

Cut-Scene

23)Step on the switch.
24)Switch to Rockman.
25)Head to where the
   transporters are.
26)Save. When you're ready head
   through.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Blizzardman V2
********************************

HP: 1200 Element: Aqua
Recommended Chips: Blind,
Thunder Ball, Cloudman Reward:
On with the Story

Blizzardman got tougher since
Liberate Mission 1. He's faster
and has 3x the HP. That still
doesn't mean he's hard. Just
send some Thunder Balls into him
and he'll paralyze. Follow up
with a P.A and just repeat.

********************************
Boss- Blizzardman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

1) Follow the path.

----------------
Factory Hallway
----------------

1) Follow the path to another
   door.

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

1) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Factory Comp 2
---------------

Cut-Scene

1) Switch to Gyroman/Shadowman.
   Head to the right path to a
   split.
2) Follow the left path to a
   Cloud.

Cut-Scene

3) Step on the switch.
4) Switch to Rockman.
5) Take the transporter.
6) Now head to the left path and
   follow it to another
   transporter.
7) Follow the path ignoring the
   switch to a Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Regular Up
   +3.
8) Now head to the switch and
   step on it.
9) Switch to Gyroman/Shadowman.
   Head back to where you
   started this area.
10)Now take the left path and
   follow it to a split.
11)Take the left path and head
   to the West to a Blue Mystery
   Data that contains a Oil Body
   (Red).
12)Now head to the North to
   another Cloud.

Cut-Scene

13)Step on the switch.
14)Switch to Rockman. Head back
   to where the transporters
   are.
15)Take the transporter then the
   next one.
16)Take the right path and
   follow it all the way to the
   North.
17)Now head to the East from
   there and follow the path to
   a switch and step on it.
18)Switch to Gyroman/Shadowman.
   Now follow the path and go
   down the hill.
19)Head to where Rockman is.
   Before the path that leads
   you to him is another path
   with a hill going up.
20)Go up the hill to another
   Cloud.

Cut-Scene

21)Step on the switch.
22)Switch to Rockman. Take the
   transporter.
23)Head to where the
   transporters are.
24)Follow the other path and
   follow it to another
   transporter.
25)Take it and Save.
26)When you're ready head
   through.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Shademan V2
********************************

HP: 1000 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Wide Sword,
Iai Form Reward: On with the
story

Not much difference from
Liberate Mission 2. This time
you have the Iai Form. Say good
bye to 240 HP. Now what to do
with the other 760 HP? Simple.
P.As such as Dream Sword and
Giga Cannons.

********************************
Boss- Shademan V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

1) Follow the path.

----------------
Factory Hallway
----------------

1) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Factory Comp 3
---------------

Cut-Scene

1) Switch to
   Napalmman/Tomahawkman. Follow
   the path to the right to a
   door.

Cut-Scene

2) Keep following the path to
   the right to another door.

Cut-Scene

3) Step on the switch.
4) Switch to
   Searchman/Numberman. Head
   foward.

Cut-Scene

5) Take the transporter. I'm
   going to call the
   transporters in the middle
   the main transporters, so
   it'll be easier to navigate.
6) Head to the left to another
   door.

Cut-Scene

7) Follow the path to a
   transporter.
8) Follow the path to another
   door.

Cut-Scene

9) Step on the switch.
10)Switch to Rockman. Now head
   foward.
11)Head to the same way
   Searchman/Numberman took.
12)Grab the Blue Mystery Data
   that's at the end of the path
   to get a HP Memory that will
   help you.
13)Now head back to where the
   main transporters are.
14)Head to the right and take
   the 3rd path.
15)Take the transporter to the
   North-East.
16)Follow the path to a switch
   and step on it.
17)Switch to
   Napalmmman/Tomahawkman.
   Follow the path to where the
   main transporters are.
18)Take the transporter.
19)Follow the path to a split.
20)Keep heading East to get to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Aka Tsunami Hole
   A.
21)Head back to the split.
22)Take the North-East path to a
   door.

Cut-Scene

23)Switch to Rockman. Head back
   to where the main transporter
   is.
24)Take the transporter and head
   to the West and take the
   transporter here.
25)Take the left path and follow
   it to a switch. Step on it.
26)Switch to
   Searchman/Numberman. Follow
   the path to a door.

Cut-Scene

27)Step on the switch.
28)Switch to
   Napalmman/Tomahawkman. Follow
   the path that just opened to
   the North.
29)Then to the West to a door.

Cut-Scene

30)Step on the switch.
31)Switch to Rockman. Take the
   transporter above you.
32)Then head to the middle path
   at the split and take the
   transporter.
33)Save. When you're ready head
   through.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Cloudman V2
********************************

HP: 900 Element: Elec
Recommended Chips: Bamboo Lance,
Boomerang, Skull Chain Reward:
On with the story

Cloudman does not move from the
back. So most of your attacks
can hit him. Not hard. Just make
sure to shoot the Clouds with
your Buster or they'll send
Thunders at you.

********************************
Boss- Cloudman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

----------------
Factory Hallway
----------------

1) Head through the double
   doors.

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

1) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

---------------
Factory Comp 4
---------------

Cut-Scene

1) Switch to Blues/Colonel. Take
   the transporter.
2) Follow the path to the North
   until you see a transporter.
3) Go up and take a turn to a
   Blue Mystery Data that
   contains a Recovery 200 I for
   the last battle.
4) Now head back and follow the
   path to the North to find a
   door.

Cut-Scene

5) Step on the switch.
6) Switch to Medi/Toadman.
   Follow the path to a split.
7) Now head to the East and
   follow the path to a switch.
8) Step on it.
9) Switch to Blues/Colonel.
10)Head to the transporter
   that's under where the
   Mystery Data was.
11)Take it and follow the path
   to a switch.
12)Step on it.
13)Switch to Medi/Toadman.
14)Take the transporter. Get
   close to that toxic looking
   door.

Cut-Scene

15)Step on the switch.
16)Switch to Rockman.
17)Head through the transporter.
   Then the next one.
18)Switch to Blues/Colonel. Take
   the transporter here.
19)Remember seeing a hill on the
   way here? Head there. It's to
   the South.
20)Go up the hill and down the
   hill.
21)Head to the North-East to a
   door.

Cut-Scene

22)Step on the switch.
23)Switch to Medi/Toadman. Head
   to where Blues/Colonel is.
24)On the way is another path
   that takes you to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Sub Memory.
25)Now head to the hill that
   Blues/Colonel went down from.
26)Go up the hill then down the
   hill.
27)Follow the path that
   Blues/Colonel went the first
   time.
28)To the right of the door that
   Blues/Colonel cut down is the
   toxic door.

Cut-Scene

29)Step on the switch.
30)Switch to Rockman. Take the
   transporter.
31)Step on the switch.
32)Switch to Blues/Colonel and
   head to the left path that
   takes you to where Rockman
   is.
33)Head foward and take a left
   at the split to a door.

Cut-Scene

34)Step on the switch.
35)Switch to Medi/Toadman and
   head to the right path that
   takes you to where Rockman
   is.
36)Head foward and take a right
   at the split to the last
   door.

Cut-Scene

37)Switch to Rockman and Save.
38)When you're ready head
   foward.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Cosmoman V2
********************************

HP: 1200 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Invisible,
Bubble Wrap, Air Hockey Reward:
On with the story

Being defensive is key against
Cosmoman. Most of his attacks
are hard to dodge so it should
be top priority. Use P.As to
delete him.

********************************
Boss- Cosmoman V2
********************************

Cut-Scene

------------------
Dark Chip Factory
------------------

Cut-Scene

1) Follow the path.

--------------------
Nebula Command Room
--------------------

1) Plug-In to the right most
   Chip Case.

-----------------------
Experiment Server Comp
-----------------------

1) Head to the North to a Purple
   Mystery Data. You should have
   one more Open Lock. Open it
   for a Doro Tsunami Hole D.
2) Now talk to the Navi on the
   floor.
3) Plug-Out.

--------------------
Nebula Command Room
--------------------

1) Head to the left most Chip
   Case.
2) Examine them to get Meiru's
   PET, Dekao's PET, and Yaito's
   PET.
3) Now examine the middle Chip
   Case.

Cut-Scene

4) Save. When you're ready head
   through.

------------
Server Room
------------

Cut-Scene

-----------------
Mind Server Comp
-----------------

1) Follow the path.

Cut-Scene

2) Keep following the path.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Nebula Grey
********************************

HP: 2000 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Bubble Wrap,
Invisible, Drill Arm Reward:
Beat the game

Alright the final boss. I beat
him on my 3rd try. I'm not
bragging or anything it just
means that you can do it too.
It's all about learning how he
attacks. When you have an idea
of how he fights that's when you
start. That Blue Orb is what you
must attack, but it moves around
Nebula Grey, so aim when it
stops. Use P.As such as Dream
Sword and Giga Cannons. If
you're desperate you can even
use the Chaos Unison. For Team
of Blues, use Blues Chaos. For
Team of Colonel, use Knight
Chaos. Use your Giga Chip you
got from Enzan/Barrel. It might
not help for Team of Blues, but
that's 220 damage.

********************************
Boss- Nebula Grey
********************************

Cut-Scene

Cut-Scene

Cut-Scene

Credits!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Results Screen!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

You are finally done with the
Storyline for Rockman Exe 5 Team
of Blues/Team of Colonel. When
you get to the Title Screen you
will have the Blues/Colonel
Mark. Choose continue and it'll
start from where you last saved.
Start collecting those Marks.

================================
5. Title Screen Marks Tsmk
================================

Like the previous games, this
game will also have Marks that
will prove what you have
accomplished in this game.

**********************
1. Blues/Colonel Comp
**********************

Beat the game to get this Mark.

The first Mark you get. This is
also the easiest to get. You can
also say that the game is just
beginning by getting this Mark.

*****************
2. Standard Comp
*****************

Get all Standard Chips.

You must get all 180 Standard
Chips in the game. Put the
Collector's Eye Navi Cust
Program and collect them. You'll
have to enter all the way to
Nebula Hole Area 4 to get to the
viruses. You can also trade with
your friends.

*************
3. Mega Comp
*************

Get all Mega Chips.

You must get all 60 Mega Chips
in the game. Trading is fine,
but it won't help if you have
the same version. Getting the
SP/DS Chips will be your
obstacle.

*************
4. Giga Comp
*************

Get all Giga Chips.

The strongest chips in the game.
There's 6 in each game. You
cannot trade these Chips, so
you'll have to get it youself.
Collecting them may be a pain in
the ass. When you get this mark
you'll start seeing the Menu
Screen full of marks. You're
almost there.

*************
5. Dark Comp
*************

Get all Dark Chips.

This may be the second easiest
mark to obtain. There are 12
Dark Chips. People may sell
them, people may give this to as
prizes for beating their quiz.

*************
6. P.A. Comp
*************

Use all P.As.

You must use all 30 P.As. You'll
have to get most Standard Chips,
and a few Mega Chips to complete
this one.

*****************
7. Forte SP (XX)
*****************

Defeat Forte SP/XX.

Forte SP/XX will be in Nebula
Hole Area 6. Defeat him to
obtain this Mark. He's the last
boss of the Secret Scenario, so
he'll be a pain in the ass.
Complete this and you should be
close to the end of the journey.

================================
6.  After Scenario              
================================

The Exe series is known or you
may say famous for the Secret
Scenarios. After you beat the
game, you can enter the Nebula
Hole Areas. There are strong
viruses and battles waiting for
you. There are also Liberate
Missions that will screw your
mind. Use your knowledge and
technique to survive through
this nightmare.

****************************
Nebula Hole Area Statistics
****************************

There are 6 Areas. There are
also Liberate Missions in Areas
1,3, and 5. The rules for the
Liberate Missions are the same.
It's just that the viruses that
appear are strong. So it's not
going to be easy. Now Area
2,4,and 6 are regular Internet
Areas, but there are Doors
everwhere. To open the doors you
must show proof that you are
worthy of passing through these
door.

********************************
Shortcut to the Nebula Hole
Areas
********************************

Where is the entrance to the
Nebula Hole Areas? It's in Ura
Internet 2. You do not want to
go through End Area and through
Ura Internet 1,2,3, and back to
2 right? Here's a shortcut.

Head to the Nebula HQ. Then you
head to the Factory Hall. The
place where you had a Cut-Scene
with Enzan/Barrel. LV1 how's
that? Head to the Message Board
at the corner and Plug-In to it.
You should now be at the Message
Board Comp. This place is
connected to Ura Internet 3. So
Tuh Duh!

********************************
How to enter Nebula Hole Area 1
********************************

Condition 1: You must beat the
game and watch the ending.
Condition 2: You must have at
least 100 Standard Chips.

****************************
Guide to Nebula Hole Area 1
****************************

When you have met the
requirements for entering Nebula
Hole Area 1 follow this guide. I
will start at the Message Board
Comp. This is where you Plug-In
from the Factory Hall.(Read the
Shortcut if you're dense)

-------------------
Message Board Comp
-------------------

1) At the split head to the
   left.
2) At the next split, take the
   right path to get to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   Regular Up +3.
3) Now head back to the split
   and follow the other path to
   Ura Internet 3.

---------------
Ura Internet 3
---------------

1) Take the only path and talk
   to the Net Merchant.
2) Buy a HP Memory and the Death
   Match 2 W.(This chip will
   help)
3) Now take the transporter.
4) Then the next one.
5) Head to the West then to the
   North to another transporter.
6) Get the Blue Mystery Data you
   see to obtain a Attack +1
   (Yellow).
7) Now take the transporter.
   Then take the transporter
   right next to you.
8) Take the only available
   transporter here.
9) Now follow the path to the
   South-West to another
   transporter.
10)Take it and follow the path
   to another transporter.
11)Take it and follow the path
   to Ura Internet 2.

---------------
Ura Internet 2
---------------

1) Follow the path to the Golden
   Program Dude.
2) Talk to him to open the door
   to Nebula Hole Area 1.
3) Save. When you're ready head
   through the door to start
   Liberate Mission 7.

================================
6. a. Liberate Mission 7 Lbm7
================================
--------------------------------
Nebula Hole Area 1 /
-------------------

***********************
Target Clear Phase- 12 _
***********************         
     _|X|X|X|_|X|X|X|___| \
X- Dark Panel                  _
3- 3 Order Points _|M|_ _ _|3|_
_ _ _ _ _|_|1|B|X|X| |X|X|X| | /
W- 1000 Zennys |X|X|X|B|X|_|X|_|
X|2|X|X|X|1|1|1| |X| |/ Y- 1300
Zennys
|X|R|X|X|X|X|_|F|X|2|X|D|X|X|_|
Z- 1600 Zennys
|D|X|J|X|_|_|X|M|_|2|X|X|G|H| H-
Recovery 700 _ _ |H|_|2|_|X|X|K|
C- Custom Bolt 2 E _ _|P|_|M|_
_|Y|T|2|2|2|2|2| E- Meteor Earth
2 E
|N|X|_|X|_|X|_|T|C|X|X|X|X|X| F-
Iai Form I
|_|X|X|X|_|X|_|M|Z|_|_|X|X|_|_
P- Bonus Panel
|3|_|X|X|X|X|H|X|X| |_|X|X|P| 1-
Barrier 1 |X|_|X|_|_|X|X|D|X|_
|X|X|X| 2- Barrier 2
|_|X|_|X|X|X|X|B|X|P| |T|X|_| I-
Barrier Key 1
|X|_|X|G|X|E|X|X|X| |X|G|X| N-
Barrier Key 2
|_|X|W|X|_|X|X|X|X|_ |X|D|X|_ K-
Bug Piece |X|X|X|_|X|_|X|_|X|3|
|X|X|X|M| T- 100 Damage
|_|_|_|X|_|_|X|_|X| |3|I|K| M-
Paralyze |_|_|_| D- Darkness
Hole | |
G- Garu-Beast 4              _| 
R- Roy-Hawk 4 | | Boss- Shademan
V3
B- Bloodia 4                |STA
S- Shademan V3 |_____|

*******
Prizes
*******
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 10 | Black Wing W | | 11 ~
12 | Shademan DS S | | 13 ~ 99 |
5000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Doro Tsunami Hole W
Boy's Bomb 3 B
Recovery 300 Y
Navi Scout T

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: --- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 600 Chp: 120 Chg: 80
| Colonel HP: 600 Chp: 120 Chg:
70 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 700 Chp: 120
Chg: 60 | Knightman HP: 700 Chp:
120 Chg: 120 |
 -------------------------------
| Napalmman HP: 500 Chp: 120
Chg: 7 | Tomahawkman HP: 500
Chp: 120 Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
| Searchman HP: 450 Chp: 100
Chg: 15 | Numberman HP: 450 Chp:
140 Chg: 20 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
6. b. Nebula Hole Area 2 Nha2
================================

Alright let me start off by
saying that this place is just a
maze. A maze full of warps.
There's a Net Merchant here that
sells some pretty good stuff.
There are also Mystery Datas
lying in some places. Save often
so that you don't have to start
over because you got deleted by
some virus. You must now head
through this Area to enter Area
3, but there is a condition you
must beat.

********************************
How to enter Nebula Hole Area 3
********************************

Condition 1: You must have at
least 140 Standard Chips.

-------------------
Nebula Hole Area 2
-------------------

1) Head to the right at the
   split.
2) Follow the path to a
   transporter that'll take you
   to a warp.
3) Take the only transporter
   available.
4) Take the warp.
5) Head to the West to a Blue
   Mystery Data that contains a
   HP Memory.
6) Head back through the warp.
7) Take the next transorter.
8) Enter the warp.
9) Follow the path to a split.
10)Head to the East and follow
   the path to Blue Mystery Data
   that contains a Recovery 300
   Y.
11)Now head back and follow the
   other path to a warp.
12)Alright now to the South-West
   path is a Purple Mystery Data
   that contains a Death Match 3
   A.
13)Right next to the warp is a
   split. The right path will
   take you to a warp that will
   take you to the Net Merchant.
   The left path will take you
   to Area 3.
14)When you're done getting the
   Purple Mystery Data or done
   shopping with the Net
   Merchant, head to the left
   path and head through the
   warp.
15)Follow the path to a split.
16)Take the right path and
   follow it to a door.
17)If you have at least 140
   Standard Chips the door will
   open. If not go get them.

================================
6. c. Liberate Mission 8 Lbm8
================================
--------------------------------
Nebula Hole Area 3 /
-------------------

***********************
Target Clear Phase- 14
***********************         
             _|_|_
   _ _       _               _|T
   _|_|X|_   _|A|_            |_
  _|_|X|X|X|_|_|X|_|           |
  |_|X|X|X|D|1|X|X|_|          _
  |_|1|X|G|X|T|X|B|X|         |_
   |X|_|X| |1|X|X|X| _|1|1|1|
   _|X|X|X|X|_ |X|X|X|
   |X|X|     |_|X|3|       |X|X|
  _|X|X| |X|X|_ _ _|X|W|W|W|_
  |X|3|R|D|2|X|P| |_| |_|_|_|
  |_|X|X|X|_|X|W|W|M|M|M|_
  |X|X|X|X|X|X| |_| |START|
  |_|X|1|X|_|X|W|W|B|D|M|P|
  |X|X|X|M|X|_ |_|
   | | |1|X|X|R|X|X|W|W|M|M|M| _
   |_|_|X|X|X| |_|
  _| |_        |X|X|D|X|X|_|W|W|
  \   /         _|X|X|X|_  |_|_|
   \ /      _ _|W|H|X|X|P| |_|  
     |I|W|T|W|W|X|              
     |X| |W|W|Z|X| Boss-
     Cloudman V3
      |_|_|                     

X- Dark Panel P- Bonus Panel M-
Paralyze 3- 3 Order Points 1-
Barrier 1 D- Darkness Hole W-
100 Zennys 2- Barrier 2 G- Garu-
Beast 5 Y- 2000 Zennys I-
Barrier Key 1 R- Roy-Hawk 5 Z-
2400 Zennys N- Barrier Key 2 B-
Bloodia 5 H- Recovery 800 K- Bug
Piece C- Cloudman V3 A- Reset
Bomb I T- 100 Damage

*******
Prizes
*******
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 12 | Muramasa Blade M | |
13 ~ 14 | Cloudman DS C | | 15 ~
99 | 5000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Engetsu Kunai 3 L
Air Hoiru 3 G
Inazuma King 3 A
Count Bomb 3 S

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: --- |
 -------------------------------
| Gyroman HP: 600 Chp: 70 Chg:
30 | Shadowman HP: 600 Chp: 100
Chg: 100 |
 -------------------------------
| Napalmman HP: 600 Chp: 120
Chg: 7 | Tomahawkman HP: 600
Chp: 120 Chg: 80 |
 -------------------------------
| Searchman HP: 550 Chp: 100
Chg: 15 | Numberman HP: 550 Chp:
140 Chg: 20 |
 -------------------------------
| Medi HP: 500 Chp: 100 Chg:100
| Toadman HP: 500 Chp: 100 Chg:
80 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
6. d. Nebula Hole Area 4 Nha4
================================

There are 8 doors in this area.
Below are the conditions you
must pass in order to go through
each door. If you just want to
go to the next area, you must at
least have the conditions of
Doors 3 and 5 met.

****************************
Doors in Nebula Hole Area 4
****************************

Each Door has a path or a prize.
So opening all Doors are really
important.

Door #1: You must beat the Five.
I'll go deeper into the Five
below. Door #2: You must have at
least 3 Giga Chips to enter.
Door #3: You must have at least
40 Mega Chips to enter. Door #4:
Rockman's HP Must be over 900.
You cannot use NaviCust Parts to
  increase your HP.
Door #5: You must have all 180
Standard Chips to open the Door.
Door #6: You must have all 12
Dark Chips to open the Door.
Door #7: Activate all Program
Advances. Door #8: Get all 60
Mega Chips to open this door.

*****************
Behind the Doors
*****************

Door #1: Steal Revenge N Door
#2: HP Memory Door #3: Path Door
#4: Z Saber Z Door #5: Path Door
#6: Django DS D Door #7: Double
Point *, Path Door #8: Holy
Dream H (Blues) Omega Rocket R
(Colonel)

********************************
            The Five
********************************

Now if you want to open Door #1,
you must go fight the Five. The
Five are scattered through out
the world. No, I'm joking. They
are scattered through out the
Internet and Computer Areas.
Which one's better I don't know.
Each of the Five will fight you
with a specific element. I'll
tell you the location and what
type of Element Viruses they
will send you.

-----------
Crane Comp
-----------

Alright to get here you must
turn on the Crane in the
Abandoned Mine. When you enter
from Oran Isle, just head up the
hill and enter the Mine. You
should be in the Abandoned Mine
Interior 6. Just head to the
other exit and turn on the
Crane. Next head to Oran Isle
Area 2 as Rockman and head to
where the Giant Door you had to
open with Blues/Colonel. Head to
the West path and follow it into
the Crane Comp. One of the Five
is standing in the South-East.
You can also get a Regular Up +2
in the South corner and 1000
Zennys in the North- East.

This Heel Navi will send Aqua
Viruses.

-----------
End Area 4
-----------

Head here and head to the 2nd
floor of this area. Instead of
going to End Area 5, there's a
path going away from End Area 5.
The South-West path that'll take
you to a warp. Take it and the
Heel Navi should be directly
located to the West of you.

This Heel Navi will send Fire
Viruses.

------------
Server Comp
------------

I told you, you were going to
come back here. Remember when
you were Blues/ Colonel? Well
enter here from Kagakushou Area
4 and head to the middle area
from the top. You know where the
HP Memory was.

This Heel Navi will send viruses
like Sukara-Sukera EXs.

---------------
Ura Internet 1
---------------

This guy is located almost right
next to the warp connected to
End Area 1. Just enter from End
Area 1 and take the turn then
another turn to meet him.

This Heel Navi will send Elec
Viruses.

---------------
Ura Internet 2
---------------

This guy is located right before
you enter Ura Internet 3. Before
you enter head to the West and
under the hill is the Heel Navi.

This Heel Navi will use viruses
such as Cata-Parudo EXs.

********************************
            The Five
********************************

-------------------
Nebula Hole Area 4
-------------------

This guide will tell you where
each of the above doors are. I
will start from the entrance of
the area. I'll also end the
guide at the end of the Area.

1) Take a right at the split and
   head North to Door #1.
2) Take the other path and
   follow it to a split.
3) Take the upper path and
   follow it to another split.
4) Door #2 lies at the end of
   the upper path.
5) Take the bottom path and
   follow the obvious path to
   Door #3. You'll have to open
   this door to move on from
   here.
6) Follow the path after opening
   Door #3 to Door #4.
7) Follow the bottom path to a
   transporter.
8) Take the one you can take.
9) Follow the path to Door #5.
   You must open this door to
   move on.
10)You can just head straight to
   Door #6.
11)You can go up the hill to the
   right to Door #7.
12)To get to Door #8, you must
   open Door #7. Then take the
   transporter and take the
   upper path at the split.
   Follow it to Door #8.
13)Now if you didn't go anywhere
   during Steps 10,11,12 then
   head to the left and take the
   transporter to Area 5.
14)You should Save here because
   the next Liberate Mission is
   hard to beat.

================================
6. e. Liberate Mission 9 Lbm9
================================
--------------------------------
Nebula Hole Area 5 /
-------------------
              / \
             /   \
            /_   _\
***********************         
Target Clear Phase- 16 | |
***********************         
   | |   Boss- Blizzardman V3
    | |         Cosmoman V3
  | |  **********************
      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _| |_ _ 
X- Dark Panel |_|X|X|_|1|_|X|X|O
|X|X|X|X|X|X|_|2|_|X|X|_| O- 3
Order Points |P|X|X|2|2|2|X|Z|X|
X|C|X|X|H|X|3|3|3|X|X|P| Z- 2000
Zennys |X|X|2|D|2|2|X|X|X|X|X|X|
X|3|3|D|3|X|X| H- Recovery 900 |
X|G|2|X|O|2|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|3|M|X|
3|B|X| M- Mayoino Mori M |_|2|2|
X|2|_|_|1|X|1|_|_|3|X|3|3|X| A-
Samurai Sword 3 Z |_|X|2|G|X|X|2
|X|V|X|2|X|X|X|3|X|_| P- Bonus
Panel
|_|2|2|X|X|2|X|I|X|2|X|R|3|3|_|
1- Barrier 1
|X|X|2|2|X|_|2|2|2|_|X|3|3|X|X|
2- Barrier 2
|D|X|2|X|X|X|X|X|X|X|3|X|D| 3-
Barrier 3
|X|X|2|X|G|3|3|3|R|X|3|X|X| I-
Barrier Key 1
|N|H|2|X|X|3|X|3|X|X|3|O|S| N-
Barrier Key 2 |X|3|D|3|X|_| S-
Barrier Key 3 |X|3|3|3|X|_ D-
Darkness Hole |_|_|_|_|_|O| G-
Garu-Beast 6 |A|X|_|X|X|
R- Roy-Hawk 6                   
B- Bloodia 6                    
V- Blizzardman V3 _|_|_|_|
C- Cosmoman V3                  
            |START|
*******                         
Prizes                          
*******                         
--------------------------------
| Clear Phase | Item |
--------------------------------
| 1 ~ 14 | Poison Anubis A | |
15 ~ 16 | Cosmoman DS C | | 17 ~
99 | 5000 Zennys |
--------------------------------

********************************
Chips you can get from the Bonus
Panel
********************************

Custom Bolt 3 P
Wara Ningyo O
Super Vulcan S
Neo Variable V

********************************
      Participating Navis
********************************
 -------------------------------
| Team of Blues | Team of
Colonel |
 -------------------------------
| Rockman HP: --- Chp: --- Chg:
-- | Rockman HP: --- Chp: ---
Chg: --- |
 -------------------------------
| Blues HP: 800 Chp: 120 Chg: 80
| Colonel HP: 800 Chp: 120 Chg:
70 |
 -------------------------------
| Magnetman HP: 900 Chp: 120
Chg: 60 | Knightman HP: 900 Chp:
120 Chg: 120 |
 -------------------------------
| Gyroman HP: 700 Chp: 70 Chg:
30 | Shadowman HP: 700 Chp: 100
Chg: 100 |
 -------------------------------
| Medi HP: 600 Chp: 100 Chg:100
| Toadman HP: 600 Chp: 100 Chg:
80 |
 -------------------------------
  Chp- Their own Chip Chg- Their
  Charge Shot

================================
6. f. Nebula Hole Area 6 Nha6
================================

There are 6 Doors here. Hmm...6
well that's the number of Nebula
Hole Areas, number of Team
Members, number of Souls you
have, if you subtract 1 from 6
you get 5, which is the number
of fingers you have...alright
now on to business. There's
actually 7 Doors here. Yes I
just wasted your time reading
the stuff above.

Behind the Doors are DS Navis.
So this means that each Door has
the DS Navi of one of the
Members in your team. Makes
sense...wait you only have 6
other Members in your Team. Then
what's behind the last Door?
You'll find out after you open
the other 6 Doors.

To open the Doors you must
delete the SP version of the
Navi that corresponds to the
Door. You don't get it? Here's
an example. I'm at Napalmman's
Door. To open the Door I have to
go beat Napalmman SP. Get it? So
scroll down and head to the
SP/DS Deletion part of the
guide.

================================
7.  SP/DS Deletion              
================================

Just for now, I'll put the
locations of your Team Members.
Remember this, you must defeat
their V3 to meet with the SP.
V3s are located in a specific
part of that area. Just stumble
across a corner or a dead end to
meet the V3. If you need help
with this just E-mail me. I'll
tell you where it is.

Blues/Colonel- Ura Internet 3
Magnetman/Knightman- Akihara
Area 1 Gyroman/Shadowman- Oran
Isle Area 1
Napalmman/Tomahawkman-
Kagakushou Area 4
Searchman/Numberman- End Area 3
Medi/Toadman- End Area 4

================================
8.  Lord of Chaos               
================================

So you defeated all the DS Navis
in Nebula Hole Area 6. Head to
the center area to the last
door. Open it with proof that
you defeated every single one of
them. This is where you should
Save. When you're ready head up
the hill.

Cut-Scene

********************************
Boss- Lord of Chaos (Nebula Grey
V2)
********************************

HP: 2500 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Bubble Wrap,
Invisible, Drill Arm Reward:
Giganto Hook G/Meteo Knuckle M

SOB this guy again. Same deal.
This guy just have more HP. It's
not hard if you practiced a lot
with the first one.

********************************
Boss- Lord of Chaos (Nebula Grey
V2)
********************************

Cut-Scene

Now you have beaten the Lord of
Chaos. Now what do you do? Plug-
Out and Plug- Back In. Come back
all the way to Nebula Hole Area
6. Save.

You here? Alright if you look
around, the DS Navis have come
back. Delete them once more. Now
when you're done deleting them
head to the Big Door. The Lord
of Chaos will be different this
time. The time that took you to
beat the DS Navis are added up
together to make one big time.
This time will choose who the
Lord of Chaos will be. You don't
remember what times you got huh.
Well you can just go up the hill
and find out. Here's a chart
that will show who you can face
with what time you need.

--------------------------------
| DS Navi Deletion Total Time |
Lord of Chaos will be |
--------------------------------
| 03:00:01 or over | Nebula Grey
V3 |
--------------------------------
| 02:00:00 ~ 03:00:00         | 
--------------------------------
| 02:00:00 or under | Dark
Rockman |
--------------------------------

You would want Forte to be your
opponent. So reset and delete
them all over if you didn't get
Forte. Now for those who got
Forte, here's a Cut-Scene. Then
you fight him.

********************************
Boss- Lord of Chaos (Forte V3)
********************************

HP: 3000 Element: Normal
Recommended Chips: Area Steal,
Death Match 2, Shira Hadori
Reward: Forte F/Forte Another F

Thank god Forte doesn't have
that Aura from Exe, 2, and 3.
This guy was a pain in the ass
back then. Now he doesn't have
it. When he starts shooting his
Shooting Buster, that's when you
should use a big attack. He
doesn't move while using that
move. Watch out for his Dark Arm
Blades. He'll use them
repeatedly three times. One from
the front, one from the back,
and again from the front.
Another move he'll use is his
Hell's Rolling. He sends two
rings into your field from his
field. They search for you, but
can be easily dodged. One of his
devistating attack is called the
Darkness Overload. He'll come
into your field and use a
blasting move that'll take up
2/3 of your field. When you see
him start using the attack move
to the panel above or below
Forte to dodge it. He'll also
use a move called the Chaos
Nightmare. He throws a Ball of
Energy and throws it into your
field. Forte has Float Shoes,
but does not have Air Shoes. So
use Death Match 2 to make him
locked into one panel.

********************************
Boss- Lord of Chaos (Forte V3)
********************************

Cut-Scene

You are now done. Now you have
to get all the Mega Chips, Giga
Chips, Dark Chips, use all the
P.As, and beat Forte SP.

Oh Forte SP will randomly
encounter you in Nebula Hole
Area 6.

================================
9.  Power Up Items              
================================

================================
10. Shops                       
================================

Shops sell Chips, HP Memories,
Navi Customizer Parts and Sub
Chips. These are some important
items you want to buy to
complete the game. Net Merchants
are the ones who sell the items.
There are also people in the
Real World who are Merchants so
find them and they will sell you
whatever they have.

********************************
             Chips
********************************

*********
Higureya
*********

--------
Counter
--------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Yo Yo D                         
Blind D                         
Ice Seed A                      
Gun Del Sol 2 G 8400 Zennys 3
Super Vulcan S 9800 Zennys 1
Quick Gauge Q 10000 Zennys 1
Element Rage K 12000 Zennys 3
Death Phoenix D/Phoenix P 25000
Zennys 1

----------
Show Case
----------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Bubble Wrap Y 4200 Zennys 1
Django D                        
Number Ball N 9500 Zennys 1

-----------
Wagon Sell
-----------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Mini Bomb * 300 Zennys Infinite
Vulcan 1 * 400 Zennys Infinite
Barrier * 600 Zennys Infinite
Thunder Ball * 1000 Zennys
Infinite Color Point * 2500
Zennys Infinite Boomerang * 5000
Zennys Infinite

--------------------------------
            Internet
--------------------------------

---------------
Akihara Area 2
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP Memory                       
HP Memory                       
HP Memory                       
Vulcan 1 C 500 Zennys Infinite
Spread Gun * 3200 Zennys
Infinite Hi Cannon E 5000 Zennys
Infinite Long Sword C 6000
Zennys Infinite Custom Sword E
6800 Zennys Infinite

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 1
-----------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP Memory                       
HP Memory                       
HP Memory 10000 Zennys 1 Air
Hoil 1 E 3400 Zennys Infinite
Recovery 80 * 7800 Zennys
Infinite Circle Gun C 8200
Zennys Infinite Stealth Mine P
9900 Zennys Infinite Ojizousan O
10500 Zennys 1

-----------
End Area 1
-----------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP Memory                       
HP Memory 10000 Zennys 1 HP
Memory 14000 Zennys 1 Vulcan 3 L
5800 Zennys Infinite Mega Cannon
G 7600 Zennys Infinite Barrier
100 P 8800 Zennys Infinite Wide
Blade V 10000 Zennys Infinite
Jealousy J 12000 Zennys 1

---------------
Ura Internet 3
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP Memory 10000 Zennys 1 HP
Memory 15000 Zennys 1 HP Memory
20000 Zennys 1 HP Memory 30000
Zennys 1 Super Kitakaze V 8000
Zennys Infinite Long Blade L
9800 Zennys Infinite Death Match
2 W 10000 Zennys Infinite
Ryuuseigun R 16000 Zennys 1

-------------------
Nebula Hole Area 2
-------------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP Memory 20000 Zennys 1 HP
Memory 26000 Zennys 1 HP Memory
34000 Zennys 1 HP Memory 50000
Zennys 1 Bug Bomb R 10000 Zennys
Infinite Noise Storm N 16000
Zennys Infinite Wara Ningyou Z
22000 Zennys Infinite Black Wing
W 28000 Zennys 1

********************************
           Sub-Chips
********************************

------------
Akiharachou
------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Mini Energy 100 Zennys Infinite
Untrap 500 Zennys Infinite Enemy
Search 6000 Zennys Infinite

-----
Deck
-----

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Full Energy 1000 Zennys Infinite
Shinobidash 300 Zennys Infinite
Untrap 500 Zennys Infinite

--------------------
Front of Kagakushou
--------------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Full Energy 1000 Zennys Infinite
Open Lock 4000 Zennys Infinite
Enemy Search 6000 Zennys
Infinite

---------
End City
---------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Full Energy 1000 Zennys Infinite
Open Lock 4000 Zennys Infinite
Enemy Search 6000 Zennys
Infinite

--------------------------------
            Internet
--------------------------------

---------------
Akihara Area 1
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Mini Energy 100 Zennys Infinite
Shinobidash 300 Zennys Infinite
Open Lock 4000 Zennys Infinite

---------------
Ura Internet 1
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

Full Energy 1000 Zennys Infinite
Open Lock 4000 Zennys Infinite
Enemy Search 6000 Zennys
Infinite

********************************
            Programs
********************************

-----------------
Oran Isle Area 3
-----------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

HP +50 (White) 1300 Zennys 1
Soul Time +1 (Pink) 3800 Zennys
1 Mega Folder 1 (Green) 4700
Zennys 1 Self Recovery (Pink)
5500 Zennys 1 HP +200 (White)
6000 Zennys 1 Super Armor (Red)
7800 Zennys 1

---------------
Ura Internet 3
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Sold Price Numbers Sold
--------------------------------

I'm Fish (Blue) 4200 Zennys 1
Custom 1 (Blue) 5500 Zennys 1
Jungleland (Green) 6000 Zennys 1
Reflect (White) 8700 Zennys 1 HP
+400 (White) 10000 Zennys 1 Bug
Stopper (White) 13000 Zennys 1

********************************
           Bug Trader
********************************

------------------
Kagakushou Area 3
------------------

--------------------------------
Item Tradeded Price Numbers
Traded
--------------------------------

Auto Running (Red) 8 Bug Pieces
1 Fujin Racket B 12 Bug Pieces
Infinite Milionaire (Green) 22
Bug Pieces 1 Magma Seed P 26 Bug
Pieces Infinite Float Shoes
(Blue) 40 Bug Pieces 1
Poltergiest P 60 Bug Pieces 1

---------------
Ura Internet 2
---------------

--------------------------------
Item Tradeded Price Numbers
Traded
--------------------------------

Shinobidash (Blue) 20 Bug Pieces
1 Daikozui D 26 Bug Pieces
Infinite HP +300 (Yellow) 30 Bug
Pieces 1 Attack +30 * 50 Bug
Pieces 1 Giga Folder 1 (Red) 90
Bug Pieces 1 Curse of Bug C
(Blues) 100 Bug Pieces 1 Bug
Charge B (Colonel) 100 Bug
Pieces 1

================================
10. a. Higureya's Order Service
    Hosv
================================

================================
11. Chips                       
================================

================================
11. a. Standard Chips Schps
================================

001. Cannon
002. Hi Cannon
003. Mega Cannon
004. Air Shoot
005. Vulcan 1
006. Vulcan 2
007. Vulcan 3
008. Spread Gun
009. Mark Cannon 1
010. Mark Cannon 2
011. Mark Cannon 3
012. Pulse Beam 1
013. Pulse Beam 2
014. Pulse Beam 3
015. Sensha Hou 1
016. Sensha Hou 2
017. Sensha Hou 3
018. Wide Shot 1
019. Wide Shot 2
020. Wide Shot 3

021. Elec Reel 1
022. Elec Reel 2
023. Elec Reel 3
024. Saboten Ball 1
025. Saboten Ball 2
026. Saboten Ball 3
027. Gun Del Sol 1
028. Gun Del Sol 2
029. Gun Del Sol 3
030. Element Rage
031. Thunder Ball
032. Tornado
033. Noise Storm
034. Mini Bomb
035. Energy Bomb
036. Mega Energy Bomb
037. Crack Bomb
038. Paralyze Bomb
039. Reset Bomb
040. Earthquake 1
041. Earthquake 2
042. Earthquake 3
043. Bug Bomb
044. Hougun
045. Black Bomb
046. Kanketsusen
047. Magma Seed
048. Ocean Seed
049. Ice Seed
050. Kusamura Seed
051. Sword
052. Wide Sword
053. Long Sword
054. Wide Blade
055. Long Blade
056. Custom Sword
057. Variable Sword
058. IaiForm
059. Fujin Racket
060. Engetsu Kunai 1
061. Engetsu Kunai 2
062. Engetsu Kunai 3
063. Samurai Sword 1
064. Samurai Sword 2
065. Samurai Sword 3
066. Yo-Yo
067. Drill Arm 1
068. Drill Arm 2
069. Drill Arm 3
070. Air Hockey
071. Skull Chain 1
072. Skull Chain 2
073. Skull Chain 3
074. Aqua Whirl 1
075. Aqua Whirl 2
076. Aqua Whirl 3
077. Air Hoil 1
078. Air Hoil 2
079. Air Hoil 3
080. Fire Punch 1
081. Fire Punch 2
082. Fire Punch 3
083. Heat Body 1
084. Heat Body 2
085. Heat Body 3
086. Side Bubble 1
087. Side Bubble 2
088. Side Bubble 3
089. Custom Bolt 1
090. Custom Bolt 2
091. Custom Bolt 3
092. Boomerang
093. Meteor Earth 1
094. Meteor Earth 2
095. Meteor Earth 3
096. Space Yura 1
097. Space Yura 2
098. Space Yura 3
099. Inazuma King 1
100. Inazuma King 2
101. Inazuma King 3
102. Woody Nose 1
103. Woody Nose 2
104. Woody Nose 3
105. Bamboo Lance
106. Tsunami Hole
107. Aka Tsynami Hole
108. Doro Tsunami Hole
109. Kamon Rain
110. Kamon Snake
111. Magnum
112. Circle Gun
113. Count Bomb 1
114. Count Bomb 2
115. Count Bomb 3
116. Boy's Bomb 1
117. Boy's Bomb 2
118. Boy's Bomb 3
119. Stealth Mine
120. Stone Cube
121. Toppu
122. Suikomi
123. Ouenka
124. Dis Code
125. Timpany
126. Silence
127. Red Fruits 1
128. Red Fruits 2
129. Red Fruits 3
130. Wala Ningyou
131. Mett Guard 1
132. Mett Guard 2
133. Mett Guard 3
134. Curse Shield 1
135. Curse Shield 2
136. Curse Shield 3
137. Crack Out
138. Double Crack
139. Triple Crack
140. Recovery 10
141. Recovery 30
142. Recovery 50
143. Recovery 80
144. Recovery 120
145. Recovery 150
146. Recovery 200
147. Recovery 300
148. Panel Steal
149. Area Steal
150. Steal Jelly
151. Steal Punish
152. Steal Revenge
153. Panel Return
154. Death Match 1
155. Death Match 2
156. Death Match 3
157. Heavy Gauge
158. Quick Gauge
159. Buster Up
160. Blind
161. Super Kitakaze
162. Holy Panel
163. Invisible
164. Barrier
165. Barrier 100
166. Barrier 200
167. Bubble Wrap
168. Kakigenkin
169. Daikozui
170. Hiraishin
171. Mayoi No Mori
172. Kawarimi
173. Shirahadori
174. Navi Scout
175. Bad Medecine
176. Copy Damage
177. Life Synchro
178. Attack +10
179. Navi +20
180. Color Point

================================
11. b. Mega-Class Chips Mchps
================================

001. Super Vulcan
002. Neo Variable
003. Ryuuseigun
004. Number Ball
005. Ojizousan
006. Jealousy
007. Polter Giest
008. Bug Shuusei
009. Full Custom
010. Dream Virus
011. Sanctuary
012. Attack +30
013. Double Point
014. Muramasa Blade
015. Poison Anubis
016. Black Wing
017. Justice One
018. Z Saber
019. Roll
020. Roll SP
021. Roll DS
B22. Blues
B23. Blues SP
B24. Blues DS
B25. Gyroman
B26. Gyroman SP
B27. Gyroman DS
B28. Searchman
B29. Searchman SP
B30. Searchman DS
B31. Napalmman
B32. Napalmman SP
B33. Napalmman DS
B34. Magnetman
B35. Magnetman SP
B36. Magnetman DS
B37. Medi
B38. Medi SP
B39. Medi DS
C22. Colonel
C23. Colonel SP
C24. Colonel DS
C25. Shadowman
C26. Shadowman SP
C27. Shadowman DS
C28. Numberman
C29. Numberman SP
C30. Numberman DS
C31. Tomahawkman
C32. Tomahawkman SP
C33. Tomahawkman DS
C34. Knightman
C35. Knightman SP
C36. Knightman DS
C37. Toadman
C38. Toadman SP
C39. Toadman DS
040. Blizzardman
041. Blizzardman SP
042. Blizzardman DS
043. Shademan
044. Shademan SP
045. Shademan DS
046. Cloudman
047. Cloudman SP
048. Cloudman DS
049. Cosmoman
050. Cosmoman SP
051. Cosmoman DS
052. Swallowman
053. Swallowman SP
054. Swallowman DS
055. Footman
056. Footman SP
057. Footman DS
058. Django
059. Django SP
060. Django DS

================================
11. c. Giga-Class Chips Gchps
================================

B01. Delta Ray Edge
B02. Giganto Hook
B03. Forte
B04. Holy Dream
B05. Curse of Bug
B06. Death Phoenix
C01. Screen Divide
C02. Meteor Knuckle
C03. Forte Another
C04. Omega Rocket
C05. Bug Charge
C06. Phoenix

================================
11.    d. Dark Chips            
================================

001. Dark Sword
002. Dak Tornado
003. Dark Circle
004. Dark Meteor
005. Dark Thunder
006. Dark Recovery
007. Dark Sound
008. Dark Invisible
009. Dark Plus
010. Dark Lance
011. Dark Drill
012. Dark Wide

================================
12. Program Advances PAz
================================

================================
13. NaviCust                    
================================

================================
14. Boss Strategies BossS
================================

================================
15. Translation                 
================================

================================
16. Frequently Asked Questions
    FAQz
================================

================================
17. Version History Vhis
================================

Version 0.2 (01/01/09)- Started
on the Chips and finished the
Shops section. Version 0.19
(07/17/08)- Finished the rest of
the After Scenario. Version 0.18
(07/16/08)- Finished half of the
After Scenario. Version 0.17
(07/03/08)- Finished Scenario 7.
Ready to turn in. Version 0.16
(07/02/08)- Finished Scenario 6
and Liberate Mission 6. Version
0.15 (07/01/08)- Finished
Scenario 5 and Liberate Mission
5. Version 0.14 (06/30/08)-
Finished Scenario 4 and Liberate
Mission 4. Version 0.13
(06/29/08)- Finished Scenario 3
and Liberate Mission 3. Version
0.12 (06/28/08)- Finished
Scenario 2 and Liberate Mission
2. Version 0.11 (06/27/08)-
Finished Scenario 1 and Liberate
Mission 1. Version 0.1
(06/26/08)- Started the guide.

================================
18. What's Next                 
================================

Alright this is the part of the
guide where I put what I need to
work on the next time, I work on
this guide.

1) Souls
2) Power-Ups
3) Chips
4) Navi-Cust
5) P.As

And some of you who want to help
me, can send me an E-mail.

I need help on the translations.
I pretty much have the rest. I
just gotta put it in the guide.

I won't be working on this guide
for the next 5 months. I'm
sorry. I'm a University Student,
so I have to focus on that
stuff. But don't let that stop
you from sending me anything.
It'll be included in the guide.
I promise. It'll be included in
the next update.

================================
19. Thanks/Credits              
================================

--------------------------------
Credits:
--------------------------------

To the Battle Master's Bible
 Rockman Exe 5 Team of Blues
 Team of Colonel : For most of
 things in this guide
such as items, chips, enemy HPs,
       attacks and souls.

--------------------------------
Thanks to the following:
--------------------------------

To Capcom: Making these awesome
games.

To Gamefaqs, Neoseeker, and
SuperCheats: Ror hosting this
guide.

Written by: George Ryu
(GiroroGochou) E-Mail:
g66ryu@yahoo.com