--------------------------------


     Metal Slug 7 Prisoners
     Location Guide


--------------------------------

 Table of contents              

--------------------------------
 You can use search to navigate,
 no need to include [], just 4
 letters will do
--------------------------------

-Table of Contents              

-Prisoners Location [PRLC]
 =Mission 1                     
 =Mission 2                     
 =Mission 3                     
 =Mission 4                     
 =Mission 5                     
 =Mission 6                     
 =Mission 7                     

-Credits / Special Thanks To
 [STHX]

-History                        

--------------------------------

 Prisoners Location [PRLC]

--------------------------------

 The formating of this guide
 will be as follows:

-Mission#
 =Map#
  -Prisoner# (VISIBLE/HIDDEN)
   Description. Items rewarded
   by the prisoner.

 I defined map as one entire
 area before screen fades. You
 can use the touch
screen to browse through the map
you're in, but not other maps.

 Prisoner# is according to their
 location. So even if #14 is the
 first prisoner
you see, when #13's location is
closer to you I numbered the
closer one first.

 (VISIBLE) means the prisoner is
 visible on the map. (HIDDEN)
 means you need to
fire at a certain location in
order to make the prisoner
appear. The best way to find
hidden prisoners is playing on
the Beginner difficulty, as you
have an unlimited ammo of Heavy
Machinegun.

 I'll describe the prisoner's
 location in Description part.
 I'll use previous
prisoner, background, and
enemies as reference points.
It's recommended that you play
through the mission first, and
then read my guide because the
first time it can be confusing
whether you've passed my
reference point or not.

 Items rewarded by prisoner is
 quite straightforward. I'll
 just write down
a single word (most of the time)
naming the reward. If I have no
idea, I'll just say swag.
Weapons will be written as their
abbriviation.

--------------------------------
             [MS01]
-Mission 1

 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the
  first screen. Chicken. #2
  (HIDDEN) Jump over the first
  cannon turret and shoot up.
  Banana. #3 (VISIBLE) Tied up
  between the second cannon
  turret and an artillery. R. #4
  (HIDDEN) Above #3, try jumping
  and shooting upwards. BOMB. #5
  (HIDDEN) A little bit to the
  right of #4, before the third
  cannon turret,
   shoot the pillar that's
   tilted right like /. Swag.

 =Second map #6 (VISIBLE) Tied
  up on the upper platform. Cat.
  #7 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the
  upper platform. I. #8
  (VISIBLE) Tied up on the lower
  platform just to the right of
  #7. D. #9 (HIDDEN) After you
  blow up the tank and the
  barrel, go to the very left, a
  couple steps to the right, and
  throw a grenade to the right.
  It'll roll underneath the
  platform and explode and this
  prisoner will jump out onto
  the platform. Bone. #10
  (HIDDEN) Go a few steps to the
  right, don't jump, don't go
  too much
    (you'll fall to death).
    Shoot straight to the right
    and this prisoner will jump
    out onto the platform too.
    Watermelon.

 =Third map #11 (VISIBLE) Tied
  up to a block of wood in the
  middle of the road. BOMB. #12
  (VISIBLE) Right after the
  artillery. Radish. #13
  (HIDDEN) Shoot the lamp above
  the second artillery. You need
  to walk a
    little bit to the right
    before your shots will hit.
    C.
   #14 (VISIBLE) Tied up, to the
   right of #14. L.

--------------------------------
             [MS02]
-Mission 2

 =First map
  #1 (HIDDEN) Take the second
  lift, go a tiny bit down, jump
  back up to the
   right. Shoot the ground
   slightly right of the second
   lift. L.
  #2 (VISIBLE) Take the lift to
  go down, on your right. S. #3
  (VISIBLE) After you get off
  the third lift, tied up. Bird
  and nest.

 =Second map
  #4 (HIDDEN) As soon as you
  exit the cave part, destroy
  both carts above and
     he'll fall down. Doll.
  #5 (VISIBLE) Tied up on your
  right. G. #6 (HIDDEN) From the
  base of the hill, shoot the
  top of the hill. If you
   jumped up to the rail, you
   could miss him. Chicken.
  #7 (VISIBLE) Tied up at the
  top of the mound. Fire BOMB.
  #8 (VISIBLE) After the jumping
  blue rocket mole things, when
  you reach the
   top of the mound don't jump
   on to the rails. Walk down
   the hill and he's tied up
   down there. Fruits.
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the
  rail, if you shoot him too
  early, he'll walk
   away to the right (If you
   jumped on to the rail) If you
   saved #8 just shoot up and
   walk up the mound for easy
   save. BOMB.

 =Third map
  Hint: If you shoot the base of
  the train slug, you get a free
  cannon attachment to your
  left. #10 (VISIBLE) Tied at
  the end of the downhill
  tracks. Candy?

 =Boss fight
  #11 (VISIBLE) Right at the
  start of the boss fight. C.
  #12 (VISIBLE) Appears very
  soon. Teddy bear. #13
  (VISIBLE) Appears when you
  arrive at the first flat part
  after #12. Swag. #14 (VISIBLE)
  Appears a couple screen widths
  after #13. Banana.

 Hint: If you destroy the boss
 with cannon attachment, you get
 100,000 score
per simultaneous hit final blow.

--------------------------------
             [MS03]
-Mission 3
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Before the slug.
  BOMB. #2 (VISIBLE) Tied at a
  tower. C. #3 (VISIBLE) Right
  next to #3. Chicken, #4
  (VISIBLE) Tied at the last
  tower, walks away if shot too
  early. R.

 =Second map
  #5 (VISIBLE) Middle of the
  lift, falls from sky. BOMB. #6
  (VISIBLE) Falls from the sky
  slightly after #5. Z. #7
  (VISIBLE) Same deal after #6.
  Medal. #8 (HIDDEN) After
  reaching the top with the
  lift, shoot up. Doll.

 =Third map
  #9 (VISIBLE) After orange ball
  starts rolling, to your right.
  T. #10 (VISIBLE) After the
  first man-powered lift, to
  your left. BOMB. #11 (VISIBLE)
  After you use the last man-
  powered lift. Apple.

 =Boss fight
  #12 (VISIBLE) At the lift.
  BULLET. #13 (VISIBLE) Falls
  from sky after #13. Medal. #14
  (VISIBLE) Same deal as #13.
  Mushroom.

--------------------------------
             [MS04]
-Mission 4
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Take the upper
  path by jumping over the
  downhill split section.
   Tied right before the panel.
   Teddy bear.
  #2 (HIDDEN) Take the lower
  path, at halfway down, shoot
  upwards and wait
   for him to climb down the
   cliff. No item, Hadouken
   support.
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied underneath
  the second rock. BOMB. #4
  (VISIBLE) Tied up on the rock
  soon after #3. S.

 =Second map
  #5 (VISIBLE) Walking to the
  right as soon as you get in to
  the map. Stuff
 that falls from her backpack.
  #6 (VISIBLE) Tied at the
  bottom of the hill. I. #7
  (VISIBLE) One flatform lower,
  tied by a hanging rope. BOMB.
  #8 (VISIBLE) Just after #7, at
  the entrance of a semi-cave
  part. Fish.

 =Third map
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied underneath a
  big plant. F. #10 (VISIBLE)
  Just after #9. BOMB. #11
  (VISIBLE) After jumping, tied
  by a hanging rope. Chicken.
  #12 (VISIBLE) Tied under
  maggots just before the second
  big plant. Cabbage.

 =Boss fight
  #13 (VISIBLE) Left end of the
  screen. C. #14 (VISIBLE) Right
  end of the screen. D.

--------------------------------
             [MS05]
-Mission 5
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the
  lower platform. BOMB. #2
  (HIDDEN) After #1, drop down
  to the left and jump to land
  on right
   platform. Destroy artillery
   to the left and jump there.
   Shoot ground. Radish.

 =Second map
  N/A

 =Third map
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the
  middle of the road. Z. #4
  (VISIBLE) Tied up on top of
  the wide n shaped platform.
  BOMB. #5 (HIDDEN) Shoot the
  floor in the middle of wide n
  shaped platform. T. #6
  (VISIBLE) Tied up in the
  middle of the second wide n
  shaped platform. L. #7
  (VISIBLE) Right after #6.
  Frog.

 =Fourth map
  #8 (HIDDEN) Shoot vertically
  up, standing at the middle of
  the tower as
   soon as you enter the map.
   Suitcase.
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied up right in
  front of you. Cat. #10
  (VISIBLE) Tied up by a hanging
  rope. Pig. #11 (HIDDEN) Shoot
  upwards, to the right of where
  #10 first was. Chicken. #12
  (VISIBLE) As soon as you jump
  over the gap right after #11,
  will walk
 away if shot too early. BOMB.
  #13 (HIDDEN) After #12,
  destroy the tank and shoot the
  tower. Pear. #14 (HIDDEN)
  Right next to #13. BOMB



--------------------------------
             [MS06]
-Mission 6
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) As soon as
  mission starts. R. #2
  (VISIBLE) Right after the
  cover. Fire BOMB. #3 (VISIBLE)
  Before you need to jump a gap.
  BOMB. #4 (VISIBLE) Jump to the
  lower platform, she's walking
  to the right. Stuff
 that falls from her backpack.
  #5 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the
  upper platform to the right of
  #4. G.

 =Second map
  #6 (VISIBLE) On the first
  platform you encounter. S. #7
  (HIDDEN) When the series of
  helicopters appear, you'll
  probably make him
   fall down. Otherwise, just
   under the arrow panel. Z.

 =Third map
  #8 (VISIBLE) Tied by a hanging
  rope. I. #9 (VISIBLE) Just
  after #8. Love letter. #10
  (VISIBLE) On the second
  sleigh. Chicken. #11 (VISIBLE)
  Tied by a hanging rope.
  Ration. #12 (VISIBLE) To the
  right of a base entrance. S.
  #13 (VISIBLE) After the first
  set of stairs. Banana.

 =Fourth playable map (after the
  cut-scene)
  #14 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the
  middle of the road. Cabbage.


--------------------------------
             [MS07]
-Mission 7
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) On top of the
  first long platform. S. #2
  (VISIBLE) Tied up under the
  second platform. BOMB. #3
  (VISIBLE) Tied up under the
  third platform. BOMB.

 =Second map
  #4 (VISIBLE) As soon as you
  enter the map. No item,
  Hadouken support. #5 (VISIBLE)
  After you pass through the
  first set of vertically moving
   platforms. L.
  #6 (HIDDEN) Go past one more
  set of moving platforms after
  #5, when a metal
   junk falls from sky, destroy
   it. Z.
#7 (VISIBLE) Right after #6. R.

 =Third map
  #8 (HIDDEN) Walk a few steps
  to the right and shoot up. #9
  (VISIBLE) Walking towards you
  as soon as you enter the map.
  Carrot. #10 (VISIBLE) After
  you destroy the horizontal
  structure. Chicken. #11
  (HIDDEN) Go half screen width
  to the right, shoot up. Blue
  gem. #12 (HIDDEN) Destroy a
  box the fell just right of
  #11. Flower. #13 (HIDDEN) When
  the platform #12 was on ends,
  shoot straight right. BOMB.
  #14 (VISIBLE) To the right of
  #13 on top of the last upper
  platform. Bread. #15 (HIDDEN)
  Stand where 14 was, jump and
  shoot or try Heavy Machine Gun
  up,
      right alternatively.
  #16 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the
  last mid-platform. Swag.

--------------------------------

 Total of 100 prisoners of war.

 Just for reference for people
 who're doing high score runs:
 on Beginner
difficulty, I saved 84 prisoners
and got 5.03 million points.
Consider it a "normal" run
score. I will try a 100 rescue
run and see how the score
changes.

--------------------------------


  Credits / Special Thanks To
  [STHX]


--------------------------------

 Special thanks to Gid from
 GBATemp for the locations of
 #9,#10 in Mission 1.

--------------------------------


  History                       


--------------------------------

v0.1 Jul.17.2008
 Started making guide.
v1.0 Jul.17.2008
 Found all 100 prisoners of war.
 It took a surprisingly short
 amount of time.

--------------------------------

 Contact me via E-mail:
 deathfisaro at gmail dot com

 For typos, questions,
 permissions, tips, extra
 informations, and almost
anything.

 I don't plan on adding prisoner
 names so exclude that.

--------------------------------

I am the sole author of this FAQ

 This guide is only available on
 http://www.GameFAQs.com

 You may not
 reproduce/redistribute this FAQ
 without permission. You may use
this guide for non-commercial
and personal use in its original
form only.

 All trademarks and copyrights
 contained in this document are
 owned by their
respective trademark and
copyright holders.

--------------------------------
