Might & Magic: Clash of Heroes
(DS) Walkthrough.

1.00: Basic Walkthrough - Up and
  running, extra's will be added
  shortly.
1.01: Added Epilogue and made
  the Units in the Walkthrough,
  easier to read.

1) Intro
2) Shortcuts to the Walkthrough
3) Walkthrough
 	a) Prologue
 	b) Sylvan
 	c) Haven
 	d) Necropolis
 	e) Inferno
 	f) Academy
4) Bounty Hunter quests [not yet
   added]
5) Artifacts			[not yet added]
6) Hero/Unit List [not yet
   added]
7) Epilogue
8) Credits.

********************************
1) Intro
Starting off with an idea I got
from the game, when I first
started playing it. Let's put
all of the ridicules about the
game a side, pointing to the
people who HAD great hopes for
this game and then hated it,
when it turned out to be a
puzzle game. Well, it's not. It
has some luck factor, but so
does Tetris and Bejeweled, but
only when you're in Tetris and
you have EVERY column filled,
except the most outer one, and
you're waiting for the
Rectangle-shaped one to come..
that's a bit what this fighting
still about, but mostly, I
think, the game is about a well-
driven story, variety of
classes, worken-out-characters,
so an RPG. And, a great battle
grid, choosing which units to
control and where to attack
first or defend, so an TBS. Both
of which I really like, so
without further blabbering about
the Genre, let's take a dip of
the Sea called: Might & Magic:
Clash of Heroes!

[][][]Sometimes I talk in this
size of letters which basically
means; This Isn't Part of the
Walkthrough, but I Still Found
It Very Funny To Say[][][]
********************************
2) Shortcuts to the walkthrough
If you're stuck on a part but
you're too lazy to search. Use
Ctr + F and type in the code and
your Browser will re-direct you
to your Salvation! 001 Sylvan
002 Unit Basics 003 Champion
Basics 004 Battle Puzzle Basics
005 Nelir's Battle Puzzles 006
4-log Puzzle 007 Ranger's Battle
Puzzle 008 Haven 009 Guard
Patterns 010 Rolly's Battle
Puzzles 011 Roderick's Battle
Puzzles 012 Necropolis 013 Sir
Reginald's Battle Puzzle 014
Kozmo's Triple Link 015 Inferno
016 Dillon's Battle Puzzle 017
Academy
********************************
3) Walkthrough
+-/ a) Prologue \-+
The story takes place in Ashan
[don't lose your attention, this
is REALLY important, try playing
Brutal Legend without knowing
the Lore. OR any FF- game],
where Elves, Knights, Wizards
and even Necromancers live
across the world. Although, in
another dimension, Demons roam
the bottom of their dark
dimension. Although during some
events called "Blood Moons",
nothing special just lunar
eclipses, the walls of their so
called prison breaks and they
drive Ashan in to war. During
the previous the Blade of
Binding was forged. With this
blade, the wielder could control
Demons, but when it fell in to
the hands of the Demons, not
many good stuff happened.
Although the citizens of Ashan
reclaimed the sword, after
vanishing all the demo-gooey and
was given to a handful of
allies. These swore to protect
the Artifact at ALL costs...
[now we got to play] We start
our story in the woods of
Illodan, the home of the Elves.
The knights of the Griffin
Empire are arriving at the scene
to the Elven settlement. You're
Anwen, a young elven girl,
waiting for these knights, side
by a side is your father Lasir.
Lord Edric comes for a visit
with his son, Godric, and his
siblings; Fiona and Aidan. Anwen
and Godric wander off to the
portal to await Delara and Azh
and their daughter: Nadia. Well,
you wander off, nothing much to
do, except follow the track and
talk to the elf with the Yellow
Question Mark above his head.
He'll give you a core unit;
Hunter.
-----Hunter-----
Core Unit
Charge: 1
Att. Power: 2
Def. : 1
----------------
Follow the path till the portal,
the wizards will arrive here,
except for the father [god knows
why not] and your first battle
will start. It's fairly simple,
just follow the guide lines. If
you're new to the game, I
suggest using the tutorial is
Plan Number 1. And then, thy
camp was on fire, oh no! Run!
You'll encounter some more
Demons back to the fire, giving
you more tutorials based on
making Walls and Removing your
own Units. When returned to the
camp, everybody is Dead, burned
to ashes, smohoooke on the
waaater. [ahum] Except for Aidan
and Fiona. Delara orders
everybody to rush back to the
portal! This is where Azexes
will start chasinh you in the
cutscene. [Azexes is funny,he is
the big red demon thingy].
Delara and Godric attack Azexes
while the other try to escape.
Though Delara dies in combat,
suddenly a light bursts out of
Delara into Nadia and the three
of them, because Anwen stays
behind, excape through the
portal to safety. This is when
she flees to her Cousin, Fidan.
Also, this is where you see that
someone sent Demons to attack,
because that thing does not yet
have what (s)he wants.

+-/b) Sylvan\-+ [001]
Aaah, you're first Quest;
[Warning The Elves]. Find your
cousin, really simple, in the
top-screen you will see a mini-
map with a bright yellow cursor,
this is your Main Quest
location. Follow the road up to
it. After your first step, a
group of Pixie's joins you,
because they were under attack
of Demons, be ready for another
Tutorial Fight! Oh, and:
-----Pixie-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Att. Power: 1
Def. : 1
----------------
Let's equip the Pixie's for now.
Engage the Demon, called Blarr,
and slay his horns off! This
battle basically is a tutorial
to MP and how to use it. This is
also used for Pixie attacks, if
you used Pixie's, they will be
lv. 2 now, and they'll deal 2
damage. BUT the more MP you
have, the more Damage you'll do
with these Jesters of magic. But
be warned, because your Spell;
Sniper Shot; is awfully
powerful, that's why I recommend
NOT to use Pixie's and put back
all 3 hunters. Continue to Fidan
for a dialogue [Im going to stop
saying all the phrases, this is
a Walkthrough, not a
moviescript, and I'll avoid
Spoilers, when I can]. Findan
will send Maethron to a look-
out, don't get used to the name,
he DIES! After the dialogue, you
get a new unit!!!
-----Bear------
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Att. Power: 5
Def. : 1
---------------
Equip one of these. They have a
higher charge then Hunters, so
if you put them all in, there
will be turns you won't attack,
so keep 2 Hunters and 1 Bear for
now. Walk to your right for Ring
Of Vitality, and equip it! Walk
to your left and see Maet-dude
die, your moment to shine with
the bears; Attack the Demon. The
Basic Strategy I recommend to
use in the begin battles is;
Make a Wall of Hunters and form
an attacking couple of Bears and
if you can Hunters, repeat this,
till you win. Don't forget to
use your Spell and fire it in an
Empty Row for some pretty good
damage. Don't be shy, you can
easily shoot over your own
troops! Now, after killing the
Demon-spawn you'll get even more
Troops!
-----Deer-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 3
Att. Power: 14
Def. : 3
---------------
Wow, what's that? ELITE? Don't
be so over-enthusiastic. Let me
run it down for you; There are 3
type of units. Core units, 3
kinds [in this case Hunter,
Pixie, Bear]. Elite Units, 3
kinds [Deer]. And the Champion
Unit, 2 kinds. I'm not gonna
spoil what they are; so the
basics. [002]You can make any
combination of 3 with your Core
units. Which basically is 2
Hunters and a Bear. And a
combination of 2 with your Elite
AND champion units, but you
can't have 2 Deers. Why? Well,
this is because there color is
chosen randomly and you need to
select to same color of Core
units and put them behind the
Elite/Champion-unit to active
the Charge. [the game is better
with explaining the mechanics
then I am, clearly]. But wait
there's more. Core units are
unlimited, BUT if you remove one
of your Elite/Champion-units or
it is killed by the enemy,
you'll lose it forever and you
need to buy new Units at a
'dwelling'. Basic stuff here;
Elite -> Gold + X. Maximum = 10
units. Champion -> Gold + Ore +
Crystal. Max = 5. Continue down
south in to the Wooden Log-
grotto. Once you arrive, you'll
encounter two Demons and a
treasure chest. The Demons are
setting the Knights up against
the Elves!? Why!? So that they
mistrust each other, duh. Take
the treasure chest which gives
you Materials; 2 Crystals. [I
don't care how the game calls
it; it's Money-Ore-Crystal].
First the small Demon will
attack you, not a big deal, just
play around with your Deers
until you get a hang of it,
whilst finishing his horns off,
of course. My Hunters just went
to lvl 4, I hope yours did too.
Continuing is your first "Boss-
fight", the Boss-part is at two
parts; he ALSO has Elite-units,
which you have also. AND he has
'un-breakable walls'. You can do
3 things here; - Shoot over it
with your Spell. - Jump over
them with Deers. - Or Just
kamikaze a Core-unit in to it
and it will be Soft Ground for a
couple of turns. Good luck. One
tip; if you see that his Elite
is almost ready to fire, just
throw some cannon fodder in
front it, Trust Me, this thing
HURTS. If you played like I did,
you'll have 24-26 HP.. and the
Elite will do 24 damage. Cannon
Fodder is a such a good word.
Now open the chest for another
Artifact, but don't equip it!
You're not going to die. Head
back outside, we're gonna do a
little sidequesting. Walk to the
north until you see a guy in
blue with a grey Question Mark
above his head, this is the
Bounty Hunter. Accept his offer
and take his quest to kill
Cromir. Cromir is on the
starting space of this map. He
isn't really a strong enemy, he
only uses Bears and an Elite
Unit of lv.
1. So enough time to use
   Hunters, since his Units have
   a charge of 2. Don't
forget Sniper Shot. These
Bounties are really useful to
nit some extra Exp. and
resources. Get your reward and
get his next to Quests;
Skullbrow and Cuthlion. Now,
enter the grotto on your left
while taking the resources. This
grotto contains a Demon, an
Artifact and Skullbrow. First
attack the demon and take the
treasure, Watch Out, though,
random demons will sometimes
appear, you can kick their horns
automatically if you press B as
soon as they pop up. The chest
contains another Artifact, which
will buff your Deers, it's
pretty usefull. If you want more
Power and less HP use it, if
not, don't equip it, but I did
equip the Antlers. Now attack
Skullbrow, remember, this guy
could be strong, depending on
your drops, just make walls, and
Cannon Fodder his Elite's, if
you're having a hard time with
this Bounty, then try it again
after your Units gained a level.
Claim your reward and continue
up north. AAAH, THEY'RE HERE..
stupid NPC's, take a left for
gold. Now head upwards, there's
not much to do anyways. Talk to
Standing Deer NPC, which will be
known as: Druid!
-----Druid-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 2
Att. Power: 13
Def. : 3
---------------
These guys are pretty good, they
charge faster than Deers, but
they do less damage. BUT if they
attack an enemy, and the enemy
didn't die [so, the enemy will
be a Elite or higher..] it won't
die, just as you thought, but it
will do something good; the Unit
needs to wait another 2 turns!
But you won't need this, so
equip the Druid until you get a
Champion. Well, continue the
path upwards, and ignore the guy
on the left! He is really
strong, and his Elite's are..
well, STRONG. Continue up to
tree and take chest with the
crystals, continue the road and
kill the Knight. This.. should
be piece of cake, in fact, this
whole tree is a piece of cake.
Nontheless, continue upwards.
This battle is a bit different,
don't attack a person, attack
the Tree-Cutters. Every turn
they go from right to left,
follow the pattern and plan your
attacks well, then this will be,
yes, a piece of cake. Now, go to
the right and Claim your
treasure, by defeating this
weirdly balanced Knight [lots of
HP, low on power]. In the chest,
you'll find another artifact,
which is useless, don't equip
it. Moving to the left, pick the
ores and find another dull
Knight. Now climb up the tree
for a 'boss-battle', the twist
in this battle is that High Elf
is on THE TOP SCREEN, moving One
Column each turn, so, he'll go
to the right, the first couple
of times and then head back,
unless the column next to him is
ALREADY FULL. Plan your attacks
well, this is the only hard part
about the Battle. After your
victorious dialogue with Euny
and the complot-findings two
chests will spawn, the left
contains 500 gold, the right one
contains an artifact which buffs
up your Fused attacks, you know,
the attacks where you place 6 of
the same units in a column, I
never use those, so it won't
benefit me, I'd prefer the
antlers. And down you go. What's
this a demonic C/S [cutscene]
with Azexes and his master.. odd
name his master has: ???.
Woohoo, the Druid just gave us
our first Champion!
-----Emerald Dragon-----
Charge: 4
Att. Power: 60
Def. : 12
------------------------
[003]Champion Basics: Instead of
putting 2 Core Units behind, it
needs 4 C- Units. 2 in the left
Columns and 2 in the right one.
Once he is fully charged they'll
do an attack which hits 2
columns and deals an extra
effect to the map. The Dragon
sprays acid, which will stay in
the 2 columns for 3 turns,
damaging every Unit entering it.
Great, now we're going to stick
with 2-1-1-1 Formation for a
while. Which basically is
simple: 2 Core + 1 Core + 1
Elite + 1 Champion. I use 2
Hunters, 1 Bear, 1 Deer and 1
Emerald Dragon. Now, what to do
next? Talk to the Treant and
ignore the Pyromanial Midget on
the left. The Treant will
challenge you, if you succeed
you'll get the Treant as Unit!
It's real easy, just place
EVERYTHING in front of them,
even your Dragons, and keep
attacking them and attacking,
and if they're going to unleash,
use Cannon Fodder and after
that, use Hunters to take them
down quickly, the occasional
bear might do the trick, better
yet; Your Spell is your Trump
card. If you fail, you can
always try later, but I
recommend you do it now; if you
succeeded the challenge, then
Switch the Treant with the
Dragon, why, simply, they absorb
life every turn, and they are
replenish-able at moment;
-----Treant-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 5
Att. Power: 50
Def. : 15
-----------------
You probably already noticed
their special move; once they've
attacked, they will still rooted
until destroyed, every turn that
they're rooted, they'll deal 1
damage to the Enemy. Moving on;
continue to the left, Findan is
a little bit sad, anyway, ignore
the battle for now, and talk the
bounty hunter and get the
quests; Sparky and Angrod. Head
back to the Treant and attack
the Midget, yeah, he's Sparky.
He's doable if you play your
attacks at the right moments and
now when and what to sacrifice,
try to counter his Griffon-
attacks and else place Cannon
Fodder. His Core is weak, your
Deer will be a good diversion.
Good luck. Turn in the Bounty,
replenish your Deers and
Treants, we're up for a Tough
One. Save, please do, I FAILED A
LOT, well, I actually recommend
saving after every minor
victory,but hey, back to the
game, walk back to where you
just defeated Sparky, in the
upper-right corner there is an
Elf. Kill him! Beware; he has
Unicorns, YOU WANT THOSE.
Unicorns form a shield when
charged up and if you defeat
this guy, you'll get Unicorn,
but he's tough, I suggest that
you simply rely on attacking,
and if he has his Unicorn
charged, make Walls. In front of
the Unicorn. Good Luck. [pray to
god that he doesn't get a
Unicorn]. When this guy is dead,
press A to pass through, now you
can buy these prestigious
animals! Don't forget to loot
the room. Head to the 2nd bounty
hunter and let's enter town. As
soon as you enter the first
circle of the Place, some guy
will come crashing to you. His
name is Varkas.. and he has a
dog. This guy is pretty tough,
somehow he will Charge Elite's
really fast, but in the mean
time, watch his Champion. He's
pretty sneaky for a fatso. This
is easily avoided by focusing
all your Elites and 1 of your
Cores on the other side of the
map, so that side will be blown
to bits and you can make a
killer Sniper Shot. Alas, truce
is regained, but wait, the
Mother Seed isn't safe, be
quick, after the side quests
ofcourse. Firstly go to the
right and engage a "Friendly"
fight with Sir Nathanson, I
mean; you do want that treasure
right there, don't you? You
think this battle would be hard,
but it's pretty easy. He has 2
different champions. With luck 2
different in the same color will
spawn, and you can attack the
other one and build a defense at
the one he's building up. If
not, keep focusing your Elites
on the Cores. And your Cores on
his Champion. Wait for your SS
to finish it. In the Treasure
Chest lies another item, which
you won't be needing, but we're
collectors too. So, Dragon
Scales. Now, talk to the Elf on
the left with the Jigsaw-pieces
above his head. This is a battle
puzzle, the game probably
explains it better than I do,
but still: [004]Battle Puzzle
Basics: All your troops are
Fixed, meaning, it's not random.
You have 1 turn, with 3
movements, if you chain your
attacks of course, you'll have
more. The idea; Finish it off in
1 turn! These are the
brainteasers. But, hey, you're
here so you don't have to tire
your brain, but I do.
[005]Alright. Nelir's
battlepuzzle; this is what you
do; You have 4 columns, being
the one with the Deer the 1st
one. And the one with the right
side of the dragon the 4th one.
This is one is fairly simple; In
the 3rd column, remove the Blue
Hunter between the Yellow Hunter
and the dragon. This will chain
the 4 Yellow Hunters to become a
wall and the bears to be a
Charged Attack. Giving you 4
moves. Next transfer the Blue
Hunters in 1st and 2nd column to
the 3rd one. Making the Dragon
charged, with 2 moves left. Now,
transport the Blue Hunters from
the 3rd and 4th column to the
1st column. Done. But Wait! He
has another one, if this doesn't
pop-up, walk back to the Druid
Tree and then return to Nelir,
for Nelir's battlepuzzle 2. This
one has 5 column, but I found
this one WAY easier. First off,
start by transporting the Blue
Hunter in the 5th column to the
2nd column. Second; Remove the
Yellow Hunter in the 2nd column
and the Blue Hunter in the 5th.
After that transport all the
Bears [col. 1+2+5] behind the
dragon. [2x col. 3 + 1x col. 4]
Well Done on another terrific
BattlePuzzle, and
Congratulations on anther
Artifact! The Golden Roots, I
recommend this if you build a
lot walls, but they still get
broken all the time. If not,
don't equip it. Walk out of the
town. You can go three ways
here. The right one isn't useful
if you've followed this guy.
Because the Dragon Dwelling is
there. Let's go left; Cuthlion.
Hey, look, Gremlins. [Flashback
to HoMM3; that was fun!] Anyway,
nothing special, although, if
you see his Champion, don't
distract, he can freeze you, so
really, don't go left if he goes
right. Just make walls in front
of his champion. WALLS. If
you're really bad with walls;
equip Golden Roots. Again:
Sniper Shot! After the battle,
first thing to do is Switch 1 of
your Hunter parties with Pixies.
Trust me. Now open the chest,
DOUBLING CAP. Now this is
Awesome, really equip it. If you
link attacks. Meaning; Units
with the same color, which will
attack together, will do 150%
damage. And this happens a lot.
Equip it! No matter what your
current artifact is. Next up, go
to south of the map, get your
reward. And now, take the north
path, take the chest with the
gold in it, and then just go
straight upwards. Stupid Knights
everywhere, well get ready for a
fairly easy battle. You know the
drill. OR DON'T YOU. First
things first, You ARE DEFENDING
the Mother Seed, one hit and
it's over. Build Walls. Really
Build Walls... in front of the
big acorn. And attacks with all
you got if you have a Wall of
Walls. Tadaaa.. Well look at
that, Pixie's went to Lvl. 3.
Always trust me. Always. I
seriously don't get this part,
They're talking about the Mother
Seed, that only one scratch
could be fatal. Then the Demon's
shoot an arrow in to the stupid
Seed, and suddenly Anwen is
like: "OMG, GODRIC, I'M
COMING!". Anyways, moving on;
grab the chest left of you; 500
Gold - 5 Ores - 5 Crystal. [I
forget some side-quests if you
want to do them before
continuing, please look for
[999] in the Walkthrough with
CTRL+F] Now, Continue with your
journey to the East. Finally a
Puzzle-puzzle.

[006]So, 4 logs, and we need to
cross the river, but we also
want the treasure chest. This is
what you do: Let's call the most
left one Log 1 and the most
right one Log 4. It's actually
really simple; Push the logs in
the order: 3-4-2-1. A Yellow
circle will appear and you can
cross to the Treasure Chest;
Artifact! Treant Sap. You don't
need to use it, we already have
an Awesome Artifact. If you
cross the bridge, you can go
left, straight through or right.
You need to go Straight Through,
but you can replenish Druids on
your left and Treants on your
right if you're running low. And
now, the Camp, with "filthy
demons". Just walk through and
attack the demon in front of
you, this time, you know the
drill, for real. One down, More
to go. Next! But this one is a
little bit tougher. Oh, and he
has 2 Elites! Scary, huh? [2
minutes later] Yawn, next!
Although he has One Elite, and
he's lvl 8. Don't underestimate
this Klaw- demon. He is really
strong and for somewhat reason,
he'll do everything, that you
don't want him to do. That's not
all. He even starts with 2
Charged Elite's.. Get Ready to
build some walls, If you're
unable to do this, just Chain as
much as you can. Once your
population in lower-left corner
reach 10+. Press L or R. Only
then! Good Luck. Yeah, and you
thought you were there after
that cutscene. But just for fun,
let me quote the STUPIDEST LINE
EVER: "At least now we know
where it isn't." Imagine; you
just lost your keys, first you
look in your pocket, it's not
there.. you think: YEAH, WOOHOO,
at least know I it isn't
there.... [Anwen needs a brain-
surgery] Well, there he is:
Azexes! First Replenish your
units if you need to! This
battle is going to be HARD. But
wait... [999]..Wow, Rewind, we
still got a Bounty to complete,
and after wandering through
these lands, I just thought, the
Druid Tree. Please, don't me mad
for doing this so late, but the
extra exp. and resources will be
a bliss later. So, go to Druid
Tree; and ignore the puzzle-NPC.
Continue and you'll encounter
Angrod! Trust thy self. Good
luck. After that, go the Puzzle
NPC [007]Druid Tree's Ranger
BattlePuzzle. This one is
EXTREMLY EASY. The left column
is Column 1 and the right one is
Column 4. The First Step is
transporting the 3rd column Blue
Pixie to the 1st column, then
remove the 1st column Green
Bear. We have 3 Green Bears;
transport the 2nd and 3rd column
Bear to the 4th. And there you
have it. And now for the second
one, because they come in pairs:
This one is a little bit tricky
to understand. We'll use all the
8 columns, to avoid confusion.
First. In the 4th column, there
are 4 Yellow Hunters and 1 Blue
Pixie. Remove the top one. After
this remove the Blue Pixie in
the 5th column, then transport
the Green Bear in the 6th column
behind the deer in the 7th
column. When you're done
transporting, you're going to
transport some more, Every unit
you didn't use goes to the 2nd
column. First the Deer,
ofcourse. And there we have
another Artifact! The Vine
Gloves. Don't equip it. Well,
head back to point where you
were. Or read further if you did
everything in the order I said.

Turn in your bounty and then go
to Azexes after replenishing.
{<<<Boss Battle: Azexes>>>} This
battle is a little bit different
then other battles; He has 150
HP. But, it's only him. So focus
all your attacks on him, you
don't want to miss him. He hits
Fast and Strong. He has no
minions, but power bolts.. which
work the same, after he has done
this, he'll change sides..
WALLS, get them ready, yeah, you
can Prepare, you see the blue
sparkly things. This is where he
go to next! Good Luck.

Big Bang all over.
Congratulations, watch the sad
ending, not really, but I think
it's made to make us cry. Well,
whatever. You also unlocked
Findan in Multiplayer. Hoorah.

+-/c) Haven\-+ [008]
So, Godric return to Haven to
confront his master, but he's
known as a traitor, first of
all; you get your first Core
Unit after moving one space:
-----Swordsman------
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 6
Def. : 2
--------------------
Well, 3 Charge for a Core, might
sound much, but it will do A lot
of damage, but, you can mess
around a bit in the first fight,
you can easily finish him off in
the third turn. Your men attack
you, yes, that's what you get
for being a traitor. Well, this
sucks, you're forced to leave
the map. So, there goes the
treasure chest. But in the next
map there is also a treasure
chest, it requires somewhat
timing but it's certainly
doable, just watch the knights,
and stand in biggest gap between
them and walk along to the
chest; If you DO end up in the
same row or column as one of
them; you need to start it over.
In the chest, there is a Phoenix
Feather, equip it for now. Now
continue up. The 2 knights will
disappear and a Yellow one will
engage you, not much to say
here, but the occasional wall
might help. And as a reward; the
archers will join you.
------Archer------
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 6
Def. : 2
-------------------
Now, here we have a good Core
Unit, which you're a bit
familiar with; 2 charge, I think
it's wise if you use 2 Archers
and 1 Swordsman. If you go
ahead, Godric will mumble
something about a pattern, which
I figured out for You. But
first, go to the left and enter
the basement. Ignore the
necromancer an take the 2
treasures; the top one gives you
a Lion's Mane, ignore that one,
the one below will give you 550
gold. [009] It's actually really
simple, they walk in two C's.
Once are the top are the bottom
of the C, they'll turn around.
Once the right guard is a t the
top of the C, run to Most Right
Space! But, be quick. Now, once
the right one is at the bottom
of the C run up and Left! And be
quick, as soon as you enter the
red space, go left, for some
gold. Now, when the left Knight
is on the top of the C, go to
the red space and press A. When
you enter the next map, the
Guard with a Quest symbol will
sum up a rhyme to unlock a
puzzle: Sky is BLUE, grass is
GREEN and Knights bleed proudly
RED. These three things you can
count on, just as sure as I need
a bath and a bed. I'm not even
going to thrash talk this one
The building which the Enemy
Guard stands in front of is the
Sleeping Stag Inn; you need to
do some kind of puzzle. As the
poem states color, this is the
order to hit them. So basically,
first hit the Blue one, then the
Green One and the last is the
Red one. If you do them in wrong
order, you'll fail. If you hit
white, the color will be reset,
Not really, except timing.. and
watch your health. In the Inn
Varkas will start a dialogue
with you about imprisoned men.
If you don't have a clue about
what the hell is going on,
you're in a refuge- camp.
Everybody here is considered a
traitor. The Spearmen will join
after the dialogue, equip one of
them instead of the archer, so
that you'll have all 3 Core
Units equipped.
-----Spearman-----
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 4
Def. : 1
------------------
Although they're weaker then the
Swordsmen, these have an
advantage, if they're attacked
by enemies, Spearman will always
Strike First, so, if it were a
tie, the Spearman would win.
[This is what I like to call
Advanced Cannon Fodder]. First
talk to the Bounty Hunter and
take his Bounty Quests. Don't
mind the other guy with the
quest, we'll come back sooner or
later for him, but not now. The
Bounty Hunter gives you 5
quests; Georgie, Boydon, Erstam,
Carnax and Valdo. Don't worry
about their names and locations,
we will Slaughter them. But we
can attack Georgie, just walk
two spaces to the left and
Engage Georgie. He has an Elite,
but we got Adv. Cannon Fodder
and a Super Spell which will
nullify some damage. Good Luck.
Now, hustle and get your reward
and walk up to the barman, for
another Battle Puzzle. [010]
Rolly's Battle Puzzle. Let me
ROLL it down for you; Left
Column is Col. 1 and the most
right one is Col. 8. This one is
fairly enough, quite easy. It
really is! First, remove the 3rd
column's Blue Swordsman.
Transport the White Archer from
the 7th an 3rd column to the 2nd
column. Now, remove the 6th
column Blue Swordsman, and
transport the 1st and 2nd
column's Blue Swordsmen to the
7th column. And your done.
Before getting to the 2nd Battle
Puzzle, go outside recruit some
Knights and some Priests and do
the 2nd one. Here are the stats.
-----Knight-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 18
Def. : 4
-------------------
-----Priest-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 10
Def. : 2
-----------------
Priest will Heal you when
they're charging and Knight's
will charge but they start with
their full att. Power so they're
quick deadly. Equip them both.
Rolly's Battle Puzzle 2. This
one, made my brain hurt, but I
cracked it. First transport the
7th column's White Swordsman to
the 4th column, do the same with
7th column's Red Spearman but to
the 6th column. Remove the 5th
column's Red Spearman. Put the
priest in the 3rd column and
place the rest of the units
behind him. Tadaa! And there we
have another Artifact; The
Golden Spear, equip it. See it
as, your Walls have Spears
equipped! [Your Walls have first
strike, too]. We're going to do
the Main Quest first, you'll
find out soon enough why, after
that, we're going to bounty hunt
some Thugs. So get out of the
Inn, walk to the left and walk
to the prison. They're weak,
why? Because we did the Battle
Puzzle's which REALLY buffed us
up. Especially this battle is
REALLY simple, because you need
to hit the switches! But don't
get distracted, just make walls
at the other columns. But wait,
you need to attack them in the
same turn, Ouch, just use your
timing, it's really no big deal.
Good Luck. Yeah, knights.. we
already had those... The reason
why you had to do the main quest
first, was so you could get some
more exp. But we're not done
yet, oh no, the fun has just
begun. Continue left and you'll
see a Griffin Knight, engage it.
No big deal, Have Fun with this
easy battle. After the battle
there's a cutscene with a fatso
you'll grow to hate.. in about 3
seconds. Well, just move one
step forward, and then there
will begin a new Twisted Battle.
You need to kill 3 archers,
which will keep moving between
shootable areas and behind
pillars. I myself can't find a
System in the moving, it's
random, really. Just make sure
you put your units who'll attack
in the Even Columns, because the
Odd ones, are pillars. But I
think the 1st one, stays in the
column; 1-2-3. 2nd : 3-4-5-6 and
the 3rd one: 6-7-8. But this is
not helpful, is it? So, just
hope that it will fall together,
good luck. So, walk up to your
Aunt and a lot of stuff will
happen; your Aunt tells you that
your father died, your Sister's
star is dimmed, your Brother's
star is brighter than ever, and
you can win an audience with the
Emperor if you win a tournament,
so you get a cloak and a helmet
to hide your identity. I like
it! Oh, and the first official
addition of the Priest!
[wooptidoo]. Walk down and
ignore the puzzle-event, first
walk ALL THE WAY to the left, in
the most right map, you can buy
Angels, buy them, and the map
left of the one we're in, you
can buy Griffins, you only need
one of each. Here are the stats.
------Angel-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv.1
Att. Power: 70
Def. : 14
----------------
-----Griffin-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 5
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 60
Def. : 12
-----------------
The Special Ability of the Angel
is that it heals your units
every turn and the Griffin deals
double damage to stronger
enemies, he normally couldn't
kill. Now go to the BattlePuzzle
in front of your Aunt, now your
Champions will get Exp. too, if
you equip them ofcourse.
[011]Sir Roderick's Battle
Puzzle 1. Pretty easy, as always
for the first one; Move the
White Archer in the 2nd column
to the 4th column, and the Red
Spearman to the 7th column. Then
Remove the White Archer in the
7th column. Then, transport the
other White Archer in the 2nd
column to the 5th one, and
remove the red spearman in the
5th column. Lastly, transport
the free Red Spearman in the 4th
column to the 2nd. And you're
done. Sir Roderick's
BattlePuzzle 2: This one is
pretty sneaky; because your
First Move is removing the White
Wall in column 5! Then it's
pretty basic stuff, transport
the White Archer from Column 2
to 7, after that the Red
Spearman from 2 to 7. Then
transport the White Archer from
6 to 7. And now the tail of this
story; transport the White
Archers from Columns 3 and 5 to
the Column nr. 2! Now, another
Artifact; Staff of Elrath! Equip
it, together with the Priest and
the Hippogriff! Now, head in to
the next map, take the gold
below you and then in the lower-
right corner, grab the treasure.
Walk to the Arena, and watch a
dialogue as Powerful as I've
ever seen. Okay, let's roll;
First Battle Sir Gerhardt. Basic
battle, he has a lot HP, but
nothing you can't handle. After
this one; you're going to battle
with an Archmage called; Fayed.
This one is not tough, you just
really want to watch out for his
Champion. Good Luck. No, before
doing the 2nd battle; head to
the south of the map. This is
where we started in the Haven
Campaign. Now on the right side
of the screen there's a chest,
we couldn't open before. Open
it; Doubling Cape, we already
found this one in the Sylvan
Campaign, please do equip it.
Head back to the Prison, where
you freed the knights. Below
this square, there is an
Optional Battle, from Boydon.
This guy, should not be a
problem for you at this point.
Just use the standard tricks.
Now, do this; Turn in the
bounty, go to the most left
field, grab the Resources and
replenish your Elites and
Champions, which you use, most
likely; Priests and Griffins.
Now; trade the Artifact back to
Staff of Elrath. Get back to the
Inn and talk to Jarvis. The guy
above the Bounty Hunter. And
engage a fight with him; basic
battle, again. Good Luck, after
the battle you'll gain a bunch
of Resources. Head to the map
where all the Patrolling Knights
were; now head to the South
Field; there's a White NPC
there; talk to him and engage
it; he's not hard; but he always
starts with the same formation;
which will be linked and fused
together. So make Walls first
and after that, make a squad to
attack; the reward from the
battle are just bunch of
Resources. Next up; go to the
most right map; and fight the
NPC with the Exclamation mark
above his head; he has the
Secret Champion; so you need to
kill him. If he's charging up
his Champion; do whatever it
takes to prevent this; I don't
care what; Build Walls and
Attack Forces. As for the rest;
basically a normal battle. After
Succeeding at finishing his
army; Press A. Because now;
you've opened the secret passage
and the spot turns red. Don't
talk to Demon inside, he'll
SLAUGHTER you. Open the treasure
chests. The left one will give
you an artifact, King's Crown,
which causes your Reinforcements
not to Make a move. The right
one just has Resources, don't
equip the Artifact. You can get
the Sword Master here;
-----Sword Master-----
Secret Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv.1
Att. Power: 90
Def. : 18
----------------------
The Swords Master will keep
draining HP from your enemy for
the remainder of the battle; if
he hits. Exchange the Griffin
for the Swords Master! Now, head
back to the Arena. And slay the
2nd opponent, archmage Fayed.
Now back to the field where all
the Knights were Patrolling, and
head in the small cellar to
Engage with Valdo. He's got an
Elite to lvl 5. But it's no big
deal. Fayed was a harder kill.
Now, train till you're level 8.
If you're already level 8; then
go the Arena, and defeat the 3rd
and final opponent; Sir Kenneth
Drake. Beware of a Hard Battle,
with an enemy with a lot of
Champions, so you're going to
build a lot of Walls, Really, a
lot! And as soon as his Special
Spell is Fully Charged; just use
your Spell and don't let any
column be empty. It does a lot
of damage. Walk to the North of
the map and talk to the 2 NPC's.
The Emperor doesn't know very
much, but he asks you if you'd
like to transfer some Artifact
to a friend of his. Don't equip
the artifact; it's not worth it.
Now, go talk to the mage right
of you, near the Hippogriff-
dwelling; he's just a basic
enemy, have fun with another
easy victory. Now, go turn in
your Bounty reward and head back
to the Arena; talk with the
announcer, he will give you
another challenge; not a big
troublemaker, so, it's easy to
do; You'll get the Winged Helm.
Don't equip it, though. Now,
just continue for the next dude.
But don't do the next one right
away. Get out and talk to Knight
on the other side; you defeated
this guy earlier in the 1st
round of the Arena. Just defeat
him, same old song. Now, go to
the Right Map. And let's teach
Carlyle a lesson. Some minor
Plot Twist here but the Demon
you're going to fight is Really
Strong. He tries to use his
Champions as much as often. So,
watch out; my advise keep making
those walls! You'll get the
Dwarven Hammer after this
battle. Then another Demon is
blocking your path; but he's
nothing compared to the previous
one. Now Walk down; and this is
really another Twist? Just be
quick in this battle; this Demon
is exactly the same as the
previous one. Except this one is
one level lower and has no
champion, so he's really easier.
This makes no sense, does it?.
Now; head back to the Arena and
battle the next enemy; this is a
little tough; compared to the
other ones. But with using the
right tactics you can win;
Walling the Champions, cannon-
foddering the Elites and just
thrashing over the Core's you'll
win with ease, and if not; use
your Golden Wall- special spell
when is Champion is about to
attack. After this victorious
battle you gain the Crown of
Elrath, which we're ignoring
too. Head to the Emperor,
firstly you need to remove these
pawns of Carlyle, which is done
in a finger's snap. Now, after
these shenanigan's; you can do
one of two things. One: Free the
Emperor of Carlyle's torment OR
go and kill the last Bounty and
save the Emperor later. Whatever
YOU choose, I'll stick with the
Bounty, just for the 100%
completion. Now, go to the most
Left map and get in to the Blade
Master-dwelling; attack the
demon, he is strong, VERY
strong, without not more than
just being level 12 and having a
Champion of level 3. If you
think you're too weak, you can
"grind" in the area of the
Patrolling Knights or in the
Cellar of the same map for some
Undead. But I found this one way
Easier then the Demons, which
were summoned by Carlyle.
Although you might be careful
with Removing units, try
transporting if you can use them
later. Now get your reward! Now
go back to the Emperor and save
his back from Carlyle's hands..
Don't forget to replenish
though. {<<<Boss Battle:
Carlyle>>>} Well, this is rather
interesting; the cutscene will
show you some rather creepy
transformation. But the boss-
battle is rather interesting in
a creepy way. He'll start off
with using some strange attack;
which summons a wall. This wall
will pack up a whole row. They
look like green blobs, but when
you hit them, they'll go away.
Every turn they'll move a little
closer to the bottom screen.
He'll also charge up an attack
which takes 6 turns. The Blobs
will literally tear you apart.
Walls will stop them
immediately, but it will kill
any idle Unit and deal some
heavy damage to your life-bar.
His charged attack is a beast;
He'll mow it through you for 81
damage, and after that he'll
gnaw food up, which will heal
him. Another of his Dirty
attacks is basically the same as
the Wall one, but no there are
two massive 2x2 blobs and both
have 30 damage, and will wander
forward. After finally have
beaten him, he'll be all dirty
filthy of green toxic poisonous
jelly. Varkas deals the
finishing blow and now you'll
see that the Emperor will
restore after Godric takes of
his mask. Peace is back in
balance and everybody happy, but
still, Godric wanders what has
happened with his Siblings. On
the other hand, Sir Varkas is
playable in Multiplayer.

+-/d) Necropolis\-+ [012]
And now we're playing as
Godric's little sister, whose
star is wasn't shining. This is
told by your Auntie, remember.
Now, we'll see that Fiona has
fallen to her death, and that
she is amazed with awe and
terror, when watching through
her spectral hands! She realizes
that she's sort of a ghost and
that she's in Heresh, the land
of the Necromancer. Her Spell is
cool, though, all your idle
units will be destroyed and
transformed into One Big Ball of
Doomed and Blessed Death to beam
your hero to a spectral
transformation, also known as
death. We'll start in a green
map, you can walk in 4
directions; but we're going to
the right first. Some Sir
Skeleton will engage you; he
tells you that he's and undead
warrior from the Griffin Army,
and smells your Royal Blood and
therefore he helps you and gives
you the task to kill all the
zombies. With the help of, his
Core Units, skeletons:
-----Skeleton-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 4
Def. : 1
-------------------
Now, just for fun, go to the
left, and kill those Zombies.
They're only level 1 and they're
easily killed. After the fight,
you'll get Resources. Now walk
to the right for the same fight,
but now it's a main quest! And
here is your reward;
-----Zombie-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 3
Def. : 1
-----------------
So, these are pretty weak...wow,
if they hit an enemy, they'll be
intoxicated meaning they'll be
damaged every turn. So, you
defeated Zombies, and they're
like; Hey, we're joining you..
sometimes this game is stupid. A
short cutscene between two
people, called Ludmilla (some
High Necromancer Priest) and an
Human Wizard who wants to be
anonymous. Now, Sir Skeleton
leaves the party, but you can
battle him. But don't he has
level 5 Skeletons. But How? He
never had those when we were
with him. Talk to the Bounty,
since the road to the left is
blocked by a boulder, and accept
all his quests; Magurk, Stumpy,
Balah, Bloodhorn and Urolox. The
Main quest, btw, is, finding a
Necromancer called Markal who
can transfer you back to Human.
Now go down and all the way to
the left and enter the cave. Bug
Eye Magurk is in here, but first
grab the Resources and the
treasure chest, which contains
an artifact; the Blood Ring.
Equip it. Now walk outside and
take the gold near the Castle.
Now walk to the Main Quest
Enemy. You'll need to help this
guy to break free from the
prison, the guards did warn you!
You're not an enemy of Lord
Ludmilla! You've battled these
kinds of battles before. Hit the
Cage to free him. It only has 8
HP. Good Luck. Long story short;
you freed Markal. You can be
transformed back to life. Only
during an event. You need to be
an expert. You're not. You could
be. You need to do Cave Trials.
Markal'll help you. He gives you
this:
-----Ebon Guard-----
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 5
Def. : 1
--------------------
Now, grab the treasure chest,
which just Poofed up. It
contains an unworthy artifact.
Now head South and to the West.
There is a Dwelling here. Use
it, and buy as many as you can:
-----Vampire-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 15
Def. : 3
-----------------
Every hit the Vampire does, the
HP is transferred to your Hero's
life. Please, enter the Trial-
Cave. We're looking for a ghost;
Which is in the north. This
reminds me of Mario Party! Now
walk to the most Left-Middle
space, grab the Crystals. In the
Most Right-Upper space, grab the
gold. Talk to the Skeleton near
the tablet. He'll tell you to
give him the amount of Spider
Legs, Shiny Brass Coins and
Broken Time. Which is 10. 7x
Spider Legs + 2x Shiny Brass
Coins + 1x Broken Time. You'll
get the Doubling Cape; just
ignore it. Now, head back
outside, and kill Stumpy. He is
the one standing in front of the
castle with the big White Hair.
Turn it in and get Sir Skeleton
back for leaving you! [which
means, attack him]. And you'll
get a typical Necromancer-
Artifact. The Spider Cloak, but
don't equip it. It's not worth
it. [I'm really sorry for all
this walking back and forth, but
it's the most useful route:]
Walk back in the trial-cave and
talk to the guy in the Lower-
Right Space, and buy some
Ghosts, 1 is enough.
-----Ghost-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 14
Def. : 3
----------------
These are really handy; if
they're charging, they won't get
damaged, but the enemy who
attacks the Ghost will get
damaged. Now go talk to the guy
upstairs with the BattlePuzzle:
[013] Sir Reginald's Battle
Puzzle 1+2 Yeah, this one is
really quite easy; First remove
the 5th column's White Skeleton.
Then transport the 1st Column's
Purple Ebon Guard to the 8th
column. Now, what we do is
transporting the 3rd and 4th
column's White Skeleton to
Column 1. Now, Remove the 1st
column's Green Zombie. And
lastly, transport the 6th
Column's Purple Ebon Zombie to
the 8th column. Done. You'll get
an Artifact right away, but
forget that one. Number 2: This
is a first, you'll end up with
one move LEFT. Here it goes:
First Remove the 7th Column's
Green Zombie. Then transport the
6th Column's Green Zombie to the
3rd Column. Remove the 2nd and
3rd Column's Purple Ebon Guard.
And at last Transport the 1st
and 8th Column's to the 6th
Column. Now, just Remove a wall.
And You're Done, and you get:
... gold? Now, get some Ghosts
and Vampires. Let's see, fill
them up till 5 of each. Then go
to the Lower-Left of the Trial-
Cave; Another Bounty job; Really
Easy. Have Fun with this one:
Balah the Mage. Now, head to the
cave on the most left part of
the beginning Field. Bug Eye
Magark is here. You can handle
this guy easily by now, but you
might want to watch out for his
Knights, they're level 5. You
can Attack them if you want, so
that they will do less damage.
Walls will work too. And don't
forget my favorite tactic: Wait
for your Blood Sacrifice to be
full. Call for reinforcements,
but only if you can call in more
than 10. Use your Spell. This
will 1: Do Damage. 2: Give you
Reinforcements. And 3: Give you
a bunch of walls. Now, get your
bounty rewards and refill back
to 5 Vampires and 5 Ghosts. Now
talk the guy in front of the
castle; His name is Farnir
Greenvine. His forces are
strong; he has a Champion; use
the Sacrifice-Tactic on the
Champion. And he doesn't make
Champions, don't bother on
walls, since he has Deers,
they'll jump over them. And he
starts out with a lot of walls.
It's not a really hard battle.
Now, here's where you'll get the
Lion's Mane; but ignore it. Now,
head back inside and Talk to the
ghost. {<<<Boss Battle: Ghost
Keeper>>>} Just attack Him.
Before he attacks you! He
charges for 6 turns, so you need
to kill him before the 6 turns.
Or make Walls. Good Luck. He's
not really tough. Just be quick
in Offensive or Defensive. After
he has hit you, and you're
alive, a normal battle will
trigger, he has 50 HP. And if
you played good, you'll have
about 20-25 HP. Unless you're
quick enough; After this, he'll
disappear and spawn 2 Vampires
with charged at 4. And a Dragon
with a 5 charge. So, you're
going to do the same as what you
did first, but now at 4 sides.
And he's Dead. Yahoo, we
finished the Trials, and the
Ghosts [we already bought]
Joined Us! Oh, but to be an
expert we need to have an Urn to
be an expert, which is located
in the Nar-Harad Ruins. And when
you head out of the Cave, some
cutscene happens. Another
Complot. So first the Demons who
create War between the Humans
and Elves, which is restores.
And now the Necromancers and the
Wizards are working together, so
that the leaders of these groups
will be Even More Stronger! We
need to find that urn before
those wizards do! [014]Head
inside the ruins. Go down South
and take the resources. And go
the left, to take an this
strange person. You need a
Triple-Link Attack to finish him
off. Remember the charge-ups
here they are: Skeleton ->2
Zombie ->2 Ebon Guard ->3
Vampire ->4 Ghost ->4 But just
making a Link, won't work; all 3
Links need to attack the Top-Bar
at the SAME TIME. It's hard, it
really is; Really; GOOD LUCK!
Now walk to the two mages;
They'll use a portal spell,
which summons a Portal from the
Demon World; so you're attacked
by some stupid Demons, piece of
cake. After the battle something
happens, which smalls like Plots
and Treachery! Grab the
Resources right and left of you
and let's put a charm on those
Mages! This is the same battle
as the Prison-one in the Haven-
campaign. Hit the switches, but
these won't change back, once
hit they'll stay hit, this is
WAY easier than the Kozmo-one,
or the Jail-one. After that, you
need to battle the mages.
They'll have 35 life, and you'll
keep your Units and Charges, but
so do they. After defeating
those wretched Mages, they'll
tell you where the portal is,
it's behind the big rock
blocking the way. They already
had the Twilight Urn and now,
you have it, and equip it! Since
you'll have a lot of Fallen Idle
Units, thanks to Sacrifice-Wall-
Tactic I taught you. Now go down
until you see two Dwellings, but
one Death Knight if possible;
-----Death Knight-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 75
Def. : 15
-----------------------
The only thing special about
these; they hit really hard.
Just keep the two Elites
equipped. Head out, go north and
go to the East when you're at
Sir Skeleton, the Rock will
change in to the Wizard's
Champion; The Titan. Whatever,
just maw it down! Easy battles
are fun to do, when you're as
strong as we are! Now head back
in to the Secret Portal, this
place looks to be an Epic
Showdown! Okay, grab the
Resources. And keep walking up,
for another Ease- Pease battle!
Now, there will be an
interesting cutscene.. Who were
those people? Who were those
Demons? So many questions? Just
Run Outside! Now talk to Sir
Skeleton who'll give you a
quest; You need to find an X.
I'll tell you when you're there.
Now you must find the Shrine
where the Ritual takes place. Go
to the East-map. So, what do we
see; No, the sword- grip is not
an X. Too bad. And some nice
background; it looks like an
Undead Dragon, scary, just keep
walking. Wow, the dragon
awakened and so did Ludmilla,
she'll send another Mage to you.
This one is a little bit harder;
but not tough, just watch out
for his Champion. Now, after the
battle, Talon gives you an
Artifact: Talon's Talon. Which
benefits Bone Dragon's, which we
don't have. Stupid, huh? Anyway,
for a fun dialogue, go stand
underneath his mouth; press A.
And then walk to the skull with
the sword, and press A. If it
doesn't work right away; talk to
Talon again. It's really funny.
Now walk to the left; See, we
can buy Bone Dragons here! Buy
one;
-----Bone Dragon-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 5
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 60
Def. : 11
----------------------
Bone Dragons swallow Idle Units
and uses their Defense to add to
his Attack! Equip this one and
switch it with the Vampire and
equip the Blood Ring again. Go
to the right and get all the
resources and take as much Bone
Dragons as possible. Now walk to
the north part of the map. This
battle is quite odd. You need to
hit the mages enough, so that
they'll fall in the Pit instead
of you being killed. So, hit
them, before they hit you. Every
turn, they will Walk Back OR
Charge an attack. If they're
standing at the bottom of the
Top Screen. They'll do nothing
OR charge an attack. But it's
still easy, their damage isn't
really big. So you really just
need to Attack, attack and
attack. Now reap their souls and
you'll be a live again. Look,
what an unexpected turn of
events. We'll kill her,
eventually. Now head back to the
Ruins where you found the
Twilight Urn. Take down
Bloodhorn, the Demon. Real nice
and easy. Now get your Bounty
Reward! Now we're here. Go to
your Starting Space; press A,
you'll get the Phoenix Feather.
Don't Equip it. Go back to Bone
Dragon-dwelling, and talk the
guy on the right side of the
map; and kill Golobulus! He has
2 champions, so he attacks slow,
but if he attacks, he attacks
hard. You want to make walls,
and try to attack him, go head
to head! Enter the Lair, in here
we'll encounter the last Bounty,
some resources and the Secret
Champion Dwelling!
-----Wrath-----
Secret Champion Unit
Charge: 4
Lv.1
Att. Power: 22
Def. : 4
---------------
Anything it touches will DIE.
This might seem strong, but if
it's Idle, it's easily killed,
and if it's charging it's also
Easily killed. But still, worth
the effort, and equip it,
instead of the Bone Dragon. A
Strategy I use; Always build
Walls in front of this guy and
Start Charging as soon as
possible! Now, let's put our new
Wraths to the test! Attack the
Demon next to you, called
Urolox. It's a really simple
battle, way Too easy, if you ask
me. Just do whatever you do,
afterwards when you're done
toying around with these Demon-
kin. Turn in your Bounty and go
to Ludmilla's Keep. Now these
enemies are all NO big Deal.
Trust me; I'll keep it short,
follow the Stairs, Defeat them
all, by blocking Champions
Killing The Rest and Use Your
Sacrife-Wall-Tactic and
Replenish As You Please. The
only hard part is; They'll start
of by having an almost fully
charged Champion. But, we got
WALLS! And Attack Him. This
really works, if you get a Good-
Place Wrath at the start. If
you're still having a hard time;
I reckon to Train some more in
this area. Now walk to the
North. Now, switch the Blood
Ring to Twilight Urn or Spider
Cloak, whichever you prefer.
{<<<Boss Battle: Ludmilla>>>}
Now, this is a basic Boss-
battle. Very Similar to Azexes
or Carlyle. Here are the
attacks; The first round she'll
Charge an attack with '1'
charge. After this; she'll spawn
1 or 2 dragons. They'll be at
Charge-5. So take your time
build an attack. If you can't
lower their attack or kill them,
build walls, be ready to build
walls. Until the Dragon(s)
attacks, she won't move. She'll
keep switching from side to side
after this, with a variety of
attacks; Eye Laser: which will
Charge up at 3. With starting
damage 40; but ending with 80.
Vampire Bat Swarm; She'll summon
Bats at random columns, about 10
Bats, which all do 10 damage
each. It take 3 turns to Charge.
Every hit they make which hits
your Life Counter; will be
transferred to her life.
Preventing this is easy, use
your Sacrifice-Wall-Tactic. So
wait with Blood Ritual, until
the 3 pops up above her head.
After defeating this Incredible
Hard Boss, watch the scenes and
guess who we've unlocked; Yes;
Markal! Next up;

+-/d) Inferno\-+ [015]
Aidan time; so, he's teleported
to Sheogh, the Demon World. He
is scared and wanders off, he
sees a Portal, runs away and
we'll get, after a rather stupid
scene; Three Core Units:
-----Horned Demon-----
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 6
Def. : 1
------------------------
-----Imp-----
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 5
Def.: 1
--------------
-----HellHound-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 4
Def. : 1
--------------------
[If an Imp hits the enemy Hero,
he'll also drain MP from the
enemy Hero] Now, the Demon-Chief
fires his cannons right at you;
It's always in the order from
right to left; if the Cannons
hit you; you're hit, and those
Units are gone. It's the first
battle, so don't expect to be
hard and it won't be. Time it.
Now, when outside, Select Yes;
the minor Experience you get
now, could be the difference
later. Minor, Minor? Your Cores
are level 3. Congratulations.
Next up; First Appearance from
Jezebeth; but wait; isn't she
the one we encountered in the
Necropolis-campaign? And doesn't
Aidan look like the guy with her
in the Necropolis-campaign? Now,
get to the left; take the gold
and Purchase the max units from
this Elite-Dwelling;
-----Nightmare-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 22
Def. : 4
--------------------
You've hated them; now you love
them. If ONLY ONE Nightmare is
Powered-up, all the other
Charging Nightmares will attack
too! Now, this is teamwork. Head
to Jezebeth, who'll be commanded
by you to attack him, but she
doesn't want to; too bad her
legs won't cooperate. Now, this
is an easy fight. Let's give
your new Elites a little
testing. After the Battle Aidan
is really enjoying himself with
his Demon-Mind Control-Power and
he forces Jezebeth to accompany
him to the Screaming Hag Inn;
and free of charge! In the
meantime you'll also get the
Succubi:
-----Succubus-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 25
Def. : 5
------------------
You've hated them; now you love
them. The Succubus hurls 4
fireballs, which have an AoE-
effect on the Units who "touch"
the FireBalled unit. You'll soon
find out. Equip them. Head up
North and grab the Crystals. And
keep walking up; two demons
appear and Jezebeth makes a note
at the dagger, wielded by Aidan.
Attack those little horned
bastards. Basic Battle; he has
more HP than you, but you deal
more damage. Have fun fooling
around with Flint. Now, don't
enter this Inn yet, go to the
left and enter the cave. Grab
all the Resources and the
treasure chest and equip the
artifact, Rage Shield. Now talk
to the BattlePuzzle NPC:
[016]Dillon's Battlepuzzle:
First one; First transfer the
8th Column's White Hellhound to
the 4th Column. Then Remove the
White Hellhound in the 5th
column. Transfer the two Red
Horned Demons from Column 1 to
Column 8, in which you
afterwards remove the white
hellhound. Lastly, transfer the
2 white hellhounds from the 2nd
column to the 1st column. You'll
get the Doubling Cape after the
first one, equip it. Second one;
Stick with me. 6th Column has a
Red Horned Demon, enclosed by an
imp and an hellhound. Remove it.
Next; 1st Column has a Red
Horned Demon, enclosed by a
Nightmare and two Imps, Remove
it. Transfer the 5th Column's
Purple Imp to the 1st column.
Transfer the Nightmare from
Column 1 to Column
5. Transfer the Two Red Horned
   Demons from Columns 1 and 4
   to Column 8.
Then, for the final hit;
Transfer the 2 White Hellhounds
from the 8th Column to the 5th
Column. And you're done. And the
Lion's Mane! Just leave it for
what it is. Now go back to the
Inn. And walk to the boss-
symboled Demon, Lorhish.
{<<<Boss Battle: Lorhish>>>} 50
HP may seem much, but you only
need to hit him 5 times. 5 Times
may seem pretty easy, but it's
not. The battle is really easy.
He spawns 2-3 Hellhounds every
turn. And if he raises his hand,
he'll throw some kind of
Molotov-cocktail and deals
damage to a 2x2 field. If you
hit the counter at the place,
where Lorhish stands, he'll get
10 damage, no matter what. I
can't seem to find a good
explainable logic in his
pattern; so just have timing and
luck. In the chest on the left,
you'll find an useless artifact;
Thorn Whip. Talk to the Bounty
Hunter for these quests; Glut,
Drak, Ra Stavari, Bly and
Phlecher. Now go all the way to
the right and up, you'll enter a
cellar with two chests
containing Resources. Now head
out the Inn. Watch the scene,
like anyone cares. Go back down
to the Demon near the Nightmare-
dwelling. He's a Bounty; Glut.
Kill him and turn in your
bounty. Then, in the Inn, talk
to Demon in the Lower-Left. His
name is Dirge, and he is strong,
but he plays REALLY BAD. You can
block everything with walls, and
still Fireball his Demonic Horns
off with your Succubi; and there
they are; the official Welcoming
of the Nightmare's; now head
outside and Kill the Elf.
Nothing Special. As a reward;
One of the most Powerful, if
well-used, artifacts in the
game; Celerity Ring. Equip it.
Go North to enter the next map
and engage with the demons. Now
go left for the first Champion
Unit; Pit Fiend [which cost 666
gold.]
-----Pit Fiend-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 5
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 65
Def. : 13
-------------------
If a Unit survives a hit from
this guy; it'll lose HP over
time. Now, just buy one, and
ignore it, it's only in your
way, has no special moves and
your Succubi and Nightmares are
way better right now. Now; go
north and talk to the
necromancer you stumble upon;
this is Drak, a bounty. This is
what we call; Piece of Cake. He
is really weak, you can defeat
this one easily. So this is a
good moment to Play Around with
your Pit Fiends and collect your
reward. Now grab the chest for
an Artifact that we're not
using, the Phoenix Feather. Now,
head to the two demons above the
chest; Grut and Moody. You need
to hit them both, not at the
same, but one after the other.
[At the same time isn't
prohibited, of course.] One
starts in the 1st column and the
other in the 8th. They'll move
from 1-8-1. They only move if
there are less than 6 units in
the column. If else, they'll
stay. This is all you need to
know, just Time it right, as for
the reward; Fire Ring. But keep
with the other ring. Walk
further up the path and take the
resources, now go left and
south; there is an Imp standing
here, guarding a cave. Engage
with him; he's level 6 and he
has an Unknown Elite; maybe this
is where we get the Secret Elite
Unit from Inferno! Now, just
battle him, as a normal battle,
use some of your Elites in the
1st turn, with your Celerity
Ring and make Walls for your
Fiery Brimstone; this should be
done in a few seconds. Head in
to the cave, take the resources
and the chest, for the Stone
Claw, which we're ignoring and
go to the Dwelling for these
Units;
-----Sorcerer-----
Secret Elite Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 22
Def. :4
-------------------
If the Sorcerer hits an enemy
Formation; it will be break
apart and turn idle. These are
really Great; buy some and swap
them with your Succubi. Now head
out and head up North. And
follow your way through the
portal and get ready for a deja-
vu. Walk one step down and
you'll be attack by a Mage-Party
first and right after that by a
Demon-party. Both are push-
overs, so have fun. Next is a
dialogue. After the dialogue,
you can get some extra
Nightmares and Succubi. Go and
crush this Wizard. {<<<Boss
Battle: Wizard>>>} You need to
hit the Portal in the 4th and
5th Column to 75 damage. The
Wizard Spawns a combination of
Nightmares and Abyssal Lord [the
2nd Inferno Champion, we've not
discovered yet.]. The only
strategy-tips I can give you are
these; Try Making Nighmares, A
LOT. The occasional Sorcerer on
a Abyssal Lord might make the
difference between Living and
Dying. If you have left-over
Cores, make Walls, especially in
the 4th and 5th Column, for the
Fiery Brimstone. After the
battle, watch the rather Funny,
Lovely and Pretty scenes and
dialogues. And we're back where
we started. Replenish your Units
if you haven't already and head
East. You'll see two Demons
talking, well, take 'em down.
Continue walking until you
stumble upon a Chest and take
the artifact, but don't equip
it; it's the Devil's Tail.
Continue up North, ignoring the
Stupid Pit Fiend. If you're at
the top, the same will happen as
in the Portal-Cave; you're first
attacked by a Wizard-Party and
then by a Demon-party, both are
extraordinary easy. Right and
left are 2 Champion-Dwellings.
They're not really necessary,
since the Nightmares and
Sorcerers are really good, but
for the fun of it;
-----Abyssal Lord-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 75
Def. : 11
-----------------------
One of the most Stronger
Champions; he'll spawn a column
filled with Lava Geysers. Now,
head back to the Very First
Cave; I'm talking about the one
where we did the BattlePuzzle;
there is a bounty over there;
he's quite easy. Nextup; Bly. Go
to the cave where you can buy
Sorcerers; there is a demon in
here, Bly. He's also really
easy; go get your rewards. Now
go to the East Map; and kill the
Pit Fiend first, then the human
in the South of the map, both
are easy at this point. Now; Go
get your Bounty Reward; BUT
WAIT! The Bounty Hunter has
another quest, it's you. Engage
the Bounty Hunter; he'll be a
tough one; he starts with
building lots of walls, but if
you use sorcerers to their full
potential by idling his
Champions, you will win. And get
an artifact which we don't use.
Now go Replenish and head to
Azexes. And wait, what? Ooh,
nice Twist. [I'm not going to
spoil it]. Be ready: {<<<Boss
Battle: Azexes>>>} He basically
is the same as in Sylvan. You'll
see blue sparkly stuff coming
out of the ground, which shows
we're he'll teleport to. One of
his attacks Charge 3 times. To a
maximum 30, you can lower them,
but a Sorcerer won't work
against his Balls of Fire.
Another attack is a White Beam;
which he charges up 4 times. A
very useful tactic that I use is
this; If you see the Blue Sparks
going to the right; Build an
army of Nightmares here, Try
Fusing them. Then on the other
side, this case the left side,
Put ALL your unused Core Units
here, and start Linking Walls,
so that if all the Nightmares
hit him, he'll sooner or later
teleport in front of your Wall
of Walls, and you can finish him
off with Fiery Brimstone. Good
luck [I found this one the
easiest out of all Campaign-
Bosses]. The ending is a little
Shadowy, like; Aidan is the new
leader of Demons or something,
anyway; Congratulations on
beating Inferno and unlocking
Jezebeth in Campaign Mode; next
up the Wizards!

+-/f) Academy\-+ [016]
So, here we are, Silver Cities,
home of Nadia. I want to talk
you through this a little bit;
Anwen, Fiona and Godric are
already reunited with each
other. And I want to talk about
these pictures; Godric's hair is
Silly and Fiona's Wraith looks
like a plush doll. Anwen wants
to find the Blade of Binding,
which is in possession of Aidan,
who is in Sheogh. Godric, wants
to find his siblings; which he
already did for Fiona's cause,
but not Aidan, who has the Blade
of Binding, which Anwen wants to
find, but she can't, because
she's not in Sheogh. Fiona wants
the same as Godric, but Aidan
isn't here, nor is the Blade of
Binding. They are both in
Sheogh. But Anwen wants the
Blade of Binding, she doesn't
care about Aidan at all. Though
all three hope that they find
Aidan (and the Blade of Binding)
in Gemstone Spire, home of
Nadia. And now I'll shut it,
because there are Twists, who
have been chained up on a leash,
and are dying to break loose.
{<<<Boss Battle: Azh Rafir's
Guards>>>} Alright; Here we go.
First up; Fiona. Equip all 3
Core Units; and Use a Wraith and
a Ghost. The battles are
actually really easy. Seeing
that you are level 10 and have
fully maxed Units. Except for
the fact that this Demons
spreads fire in the 3rd and 4th
rows, every so often [2-4
turns]. But, a nice challenge is
a nice challenge. Next: Bulgor
and his Rakshasa's. Equip all 3
Core Units, a Shaman and a
Unicorn. Alright, another
Challenge, He starts off with 3
Rakshasa's Linked at Charge 5.
You need to stay alive until
they're all dead or have
attacked and you're still alive,
after that you're victorious.
No, no battle afterwards. It's
really wise to Time your
Unicorns so that there are
barriers all over the place when
the Rakshasa's attack. And if
you're running out of time, you
can use the Shaman to Lengthen
their Charge. Next: Talsam and
his weird Magic. Equip all 3
Core Units, a Priest and a Sword
Master. These one drains HP from
the enemy, the other one heals
you. Now, this is one is really
hard. He is 2 levels higher than
the other two. He has more
units, he plays better AND he
drains Attack from Units which
are charging. Now, grab yourself
a nice cold beverage, you earned
it! Now, here's something we
didn't expect. What a Twist, how
cliche. Time for Nadia; You're
woken by Cyrus, your father's
assistant. Let me remind you
something; Anwen, Aidan, Fiona
and Godric's Campagin were in
the same timeline; we are a few
weeks in the future from their
campaigns. Anyway your Core
Units:
-----Golem-----
Core Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 5
Def. : 1
---------------
-----Apprentice-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 3
Def. : 1
---------------------
-----Gremlins-----
Core Unit
Charge: 2
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 10
Def. : 1
------------------
Gremlins seem strong, but they
only do a lot of damage to the
first enemy in the row like;
5-3-2 or 4-3-2-1, matter of
speaking. I Love Gremlins; they
were my favorite Unit in HoMM 3.
9 out of 10 plays I choose
Tower, the other 1 was the 1 I
was like; Hey, let's try this
one. Gremlins look like JarJar
Binks here.. Right after the
scene you get a Mana Sheild?
They mean Shield, I do hope so.
Which makes you lose Mana
instead of HP, although your
Spell is really powerful, let's
equip this for now. First, go to
two Wizard, then to the mage, he
will give you; Mages!
-----Mage-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 4
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 18
Def.: 4
---------------
His attack is Skillful, if he
hits an Idle Unit, every other
Idle Unit that it touches will
be shocked too, and the next one
and the next one and so on. Now
go talk again to the Wizard
Guards; you need to hit the
Magical Locks with your Mages
one after the other, in the same
turn. Timing is your key to
victory. Afterwards we get
another artifact, Equip this one
instead. It'll make you gain
Mana in you destroy a wall.
Before heading out; Go to the
Upper-Left cliff in the Begin
Field, there is a chest with an
Artifact in it, take it but
don't equip it. Next up; four
boring battles, easy as Sheogh
[pun intended]. With a chest
containing a Battle Wand. Equip
this; it'll let you start with
full Mana. Easy, when the enemy
has a good starting formation.
Which will be in Your Next
Combat against the Wizard-Party
[the 3rd one when you're
outside]. Ha, go you; there is
no 4th battle, there is an 2nd
Elite Unit, though:
-----Djinn-----
Elite Unit
Charge: 3
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 20
Def.: 4
---------------
If they hit A Charging
formation; it'll be frozen for 2
turns. If you attack a Frozen
Formation, it'll be Shattered in
no time. You'll also get the
Djinn's Shash, don't equip it.
Head up for the 2nd Floor. It'll
start off with a Titan on their
side, but he's silly. Go ahead,
try to freeze him and shatter
him, it's an easy match. And
surprise, surprise:
-----Titan-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 65
Def.: 13
---------------
His attack somewhat is an AoE.
It will most likely kill more
Idle Units than do damage. Just
don't use him. The next Battle
is also a pushover; grab the
chest for a Titan-related
Artifact, so ignore it. Continue
to the 3rd Floor; but wait; it's
a guard with a Rakshasa; you
know, This battle seemed WAY
easier than the 3 previous ones.
Just kill him before the 5
charges, or Freeze the beasts.
It's really easy. And If you're
really lucky, one of your
Lighting Strikes will kill one
of them. Guess what happens
after the battle;
-----Rakshasa-----
Champion Unit
Charge: 5
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 60
Def.: 12
-------------------
It'll deal damage to both your
HP and MP [divided equally, so
fully charged would mean it'd do
30 damage to HP and 30 to MP.].
Swap these with your Djinns. You
also get a Scimitar as artifact,
equip it; it'll make your
Rakshasa's masters of the
Battle. Their Charge is changed
to 4! And their Att. Power is at
125%. This level is pretty
quick, I guess to Programmers
were like; been there, done
that. Now, let's go ALL THE WAY
BACK to the prison. There's a
Guard standing here, just defeat
him, although he's quite
annoying, and somehow, you never
get a starting formation. He'll
keep spawning Djinns and he'll
keep using them on your
Rakshasa's. But he's doable
after a while. Just wait for a
Rakshasa to stay alive, buy
building walls, and attacking
the newly spawned Djinns, as a
reward you'll get the Phoenix
Feather. The other reason why
you needed to go down here, was
to replenish your Mages. Now
head back up to the 3rd floor,
by engaging the red Mage. He's
not too hard, but believe me;
Kill his Champions before he can
Charge them. Once they're
charging, All the Core Units
will be placed in the most
positive way to build Walls for
the enemy. So; While they're
idle, slay his champions. Use
the same tactic on the 3rd floor
with the next Red Mage-Party.
Now, talk to Regular Wizard,
guarding a cage and make sure
you defeat him. Only thing to
it; Kill his champion, quickly.
That is everything, nothing more
or less; You'll get a Phoenix!
-----Phoenix-----
Secret Champion Unit
Charge: 6
Lv. 1
Att. Power: 80
Def.: 16
------------------
It'll spread fire in the 2
Column's right in his path AND
if it's charging and you're
unfortunate enough to die;
You'll resurrect. Switch this
Unit with the Rakshasa. Also,
this guy can summon all your
Elites and Champions for Free!
Now, unequip the Artifact,
Scimitar and equip the Battle
Wand, and attack the Next Red
Mage-party, which is easy, when
you use the same tactic I
explain earlier. Now walk up to
Azh Rafir's Chambre; some
dialogue and scenes start with a
lot of Twist; I'm not saying
anything except the bosses names
[Be Warned For Spoilers] Now the
interesting Part starts.
{<<<Boss Battle: Aidan
controlled by Azh Rafir>>>}
You're Godric, trying to
convince your brother. Equip the
Priest and the Sword Master, and
for the Core, go nuts. Aidan
start the same; with making 2
Abyssal Lords, 2 Nightmares and
2 Core-Formations. Well; This is
a heavy one, fire everything
you've got right at those
monsters, or else, you're dead
meat since he has 150 HP. With a
little bit of luck you can have
your Holy Shield up and ready,
and use it when the Abyssal
Lords are about to attack to
nullify the attack. The Most
Frustrating Part of this battle
is that he keeps Summoning
Demons which will drop just in
the right way so that he can
fuse, link and chain everything
perfectly. But if you destroy
the Elites and Champions before
they're Charging, you should be
cool. And there's always the
ability to build walls or simply
Holy Shield.
-There won't be a Save-moment
 between the bosses-
{<<<Boss Battle: Azh Rafir>>>}
You're Aidan, trying to end this
war, once and for all! Equip the
Succubus and the Nightmare. Now,
Azh Rafir is HARD. He is level
15. And has 2 Champions on level
3. By looking only at the
starting screen; This Is Gonne
Be An Epic Showdown. He starts
with a barricade of walls and
nothing more. He also has 200
HP; so be ready for a lengthy
battle. Best advice: Try
Chaining, Link and Fusing your
Nightmare, try to Activate all
of your NightMares. The
Occasional Succubus to clear a
column is wise, and for the rest
of the Core Units, build Walls
for Fiery Brimstone. Next move
is a HARD ONE. He'll spawn two
Rakshasa's. Be Ready to make a
lot of walls and Nightmares.
Right after that, there's a
Phoenix. Just keep building
those Walls and Nightmares.
Right after these Attacks he'll
use an Attack with his Staff.
Which he shoots in a column for
some Minor Damage, although the
staff sticks in the ground
counting down from 2. And when
the Staff Reaches 0, it'll
explode, leaving an AoE-effect.
From here on, it's a regular
battle. After he hits 100 HP,
he'll spawn another 2 Rakshasa's
and another Phoenix. So don't
try to finish him off in once,
you won't succeed and after your
Attempt, he'll spawn these
monsters again. So take it nice
and slow. It took me 5,5 times;
since in the last Battle, I
killed him while he had a
Charging Phoenix. But it will
only bring back 10%, in case
you're wondering, which is 20%.
Victory! And you thought you
were done, didn't you? SAVE-
POINT! In case you want 100%,
you can go outside the building
and on the 3rd there's a Guard,
which grants you Lion's Mane
upon Victory. The 2nd floor also
has a guard, with the Doubling
Cape. Now, head back up and
confront Lord BloodCrown.
{<<<Boss Battle: Lord
Bloodcrown>>>} Now, this is a
boss-battle which kind of looks
familiar. He has One Head and
Two Hands, he has 400 HP. Start
off with your Spell and get on
with Chaining, Linking and
Fusing. His attacks vary from;
-Shooting two balls out of each
 hand one, charging 3 turns,
 starting at 30.
-His eyes turn blue, charging
 every turn an extra 10 damage,
 which you
can't hit away. Meaning you have
to build up a defense, for when
the attack is fully charged;
doing 100 damage to the 4th +
5th Column. These Eyes will also
charge up when he kills one of
your Units. This is the only
thing he does; Just watch the
hands and attack those. Because
if he fires them, so you think
damage. So his eyes charge up
FASTER. So he will do a Lot of
Damage in mere seconds.

Congratulations, you've beaten
Lord BloodCrown, now watch the
very Awesome Ending Scenes, and
you unlocked Cyrus. Enjoy the
Epilogue and the Credits.

4) Bounty Hunter quests [not yet
   added]
5) Artifacts				[not yet added]
6) Hero/Unit List [not yet
   added]

7) Epilogue
I took the liberty of Copying
the whole Epilogue, for you:
Anwen's skills and fame grew
into those of a legendary Ranger
who traveled far and wide across
the lands of Ashan. Godric
became Lord High Constable of
the Griffin Empire and the right
hand of both King Alexei and his
son, King Nicolai. Fiona married
Prince Alexei, becoming Queen
Fiona and mother of King
Nicolai. Aidan, steadfast in his
hatred of demons, joined the
fabled order of the Dragon
Knights and continued his
personal war against the hordes
of Urgash. Nadia and Cyrus
eventually married and gave
birth to a young mage named
Zehir, who came to rule the
Silver Cities.

8) Credits.
Me [suggestions and tips;
dschuijers@hotmail.com] My
Girlfriend, Eva [for being so
patient] AlvinSpark [Necropolis
X-sidequest]

Thank You.

