********************************

     New Super Mario Bros. FAQ/W
      For the Nintendo DS
     Version 1.55 (Last Updated 
        By Devin Morgan

 This file is Copyright (c)2006 

********************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Story
4. Controls
5. Overview
6. Walkthrough
7. Enemies
8. Items
9. 1-Player Mini-Games
10. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
11. Credits
12. Copyright Notice
13. Contact Information

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.55 (8/22/06): Added
information on Challenge Mode to
the Secrets section of the
guide.

Version 1.5 (6/17/06): Made a
minor correction regarding the
Sort or 'Splode minigame.

Version 1.45 (6/12/06): Yet
another Mini Mushroom location
was added to the mix.

Version 1.4 (6/8/06): I finally
got to adding information on the
Vs. Only mini-games today. See
that section of the guide for
more details.

Version 1.35 (6/5/06): I added a
couple things to the Secrets
section, one thing of importance
being the list of Mini Mushroom
locations outside of Toad
Houses, so check it out. As an
added note to those who read the
FAQ: please do not send me email
saying that you can get such and
such Star Coin, or beat a
certain boss by using a Mega
Mushroom. I know that, but it's
a horribly cheap way to go about
the game, and it wouldn't make
this guide all that useful if I
told people to use an item at
every tough spot!

Version 1.3 (6/2/06): Made a
couple more small
additions/corrections.

Version 1.25 (5/29/06): Of
course, I added some more bits
and pieces here and there thanks
to various submissions I've
received today!

Version 1.2 (5/28/06): Added
another method to get infinite
1-Ups, and added a small bit
about the Blue Shell's ability
to make you move faster when
underwater.

Version 1.15 (5/25/06): Updated
the method for unlocking
background pattern 5 in the
Secrets section. Also, I updated
part of the walkthrough for the
final castle, thanks to Matt K.

Version 1.1 (5/24/06): I added
an enemy list, thanks to Boo
Destroyer!

Version 1.05 (5/23/06):
Added/changed a bunch of things,
including new and different
methods for obtaining certain
Star Coins, as well as a couple
new secrets in that section of
the guide.

Version 1.0 (5/20/06): The main
walkthrough, as well as the
other sections of this guide,
are fully complete! If there is
more to be added, let me know
via email, otherwise thanks for
reading!

Version 0.8 (5/20/06): The
walkthrough is complete up to
the end of the first castle in
World 8. The final stages of the
guide will be added later today,
and the supplementary sections
will be worked on as well.

Version 0.6 (5/19/06): Right
now, the walkthrough is done
through World 6.

Version 0.45 (5/17/06): The main
walkthrough is now complete up
to the start of World 5.

Version 0.3 (5/16/06):
Walkthrough now covers through
World 3.

Version 0.1 (5/15/06): The first
version, which covers all of
World 1. More to come shortly.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

After so many years of having a
successful franchise, Mario
returns to his roots for a brand
new adventure on the Nintendo
DS. It is a wonderfully fun
game, which absolutely delivers,
despite being an old-style
platformer. This title
definitely has plenty of new
tricks, and uses the power of
the DS to bring life and depth
to this platformer. When you
play New Super Mario Bros., you
will be reminiscent of Super
Mario Brothers 3 and Super Mario
World especially, if this were
to be compared with any previous
Mario game. Without a doubt,
Mario is back with another hit
of a game, and this is it!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Story  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

EMERGENCY NEWS FLASH!

Princess Peach has been
kidnapped! While enjoying a nice
walk with Mario, the beloved
ruler of the Mushroom Kingdom
was whisked away by an unknown
assailant. How could this happen
with Mario around?

According to eyewitnesses, the
walk was going swimmingly when
Mario and the princess spotted
smoke billowing out of Peach's
Castle. The mustachioed marvel
immediately jumped into action
and sped off toward the fire.
The moment he left her side, the
princess vanished!

Who's behind Princess Peach's
disappearance?

Who's behind the attack on
Peach's Castle?

Are the two incidents related?

Didn't Bowser Jr. once think
Princess Peach might be his
mother?

Looks like Mario's going to need
all the Mega Mushrooms he can
find to get to the bottom of
this mess!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Control Pad: Move Mario, move
cursor on menu screens

    Down: Go down pipes, slide (

    Up: Climb vines, ropes, etc.
  doors, grab onto fences

Start: Pause game, view menu
screens

A: Jump (press Down while in air
to ground pound; press again
when landing
   and while dashing to perform 
   Control Pad in direction of w
   selection on menu screens

B: Same as A for Mario's
functions, cancel selection on
menu screens

X/Y: Dash (hold while moving to
go faster), pick up an item in
front of you
 (hold to carry it), use current

L/R: Scrolls the map screen to
the left and right

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

================
Main Menu Screen
================

Mario Game: This option will let
you enter the single-player
adventure. You
   can pick one of three save fi
     already existing data.

Mario Vs. Luigi: Here is where
you can connect to another
player with a DS in
    the same room, and play agai
    choose if all players have t
    the host of the match. In th
    5 courses to run around in, 
    can get items and attack eac
    collect 8 coins, you will re
    the coin counter will reset.
    collects the most stars duri

Minigames: Here, you can access
the various mini-games included
with the
  game. You will be able to choo
  enter multiplayer mode, and pl
 room with a DS and this game.

Options: You can change the
audio settings and control
scheme here.


=========
World Map
=========

If you have played Super Mario
Bros. 3 or Super Mario World,
then you will be familiar with
the overhead map view in this
game as well. The map shows the
individual levels, which you can
access by walking along the map
with the Control Pad. There are
many levels in each world, and
not all of them are accessed by
conventional means; that said,
you will have to do some extra
exploring to find all the secret
routes to "hidden" stages.

On the touch screen, you will
see a dotted map of the current
world. It will show your current
position, the world's tower and
castle, and all stages you can
access (they appear as white
dots), secret or otherwise. On
the top screen, you will see a
graphical version of the world
map, which you can move around
on. The next course you have to
beat is designated by a red
circle, completed courses are
blue, and courses you are unable
to reach yet are black.

Also on the world map, you will
find that each time you exit a
stage, either a Winged Block or
a Hammer Bro will move around to
a new location on the map. If
you enter the stage where either
of them is located, you will
find a Winged Block at the start
of the stage which yields a good
item, or a Hammer Bro to fight.
They are optional, but can prove
to be quite helpful as you play
through this game.


================
Saving Your Game
================

As you may have already figured
out, you can't just save your
game at any given time. You will
be given the option to save when
you complete Towers and Castles
(the first time only). Also,
when you pay out Star Coins to
open up a new path on the map,
you will be allowed to save then
as well.


==========
Star Coins
==========

As you may have guessed, there
are two varieties of coins found
in this game. The regular kind
are plentiful, and give you an
extra life if you collect 100,
but these Star Coins are much
larger and rarer. There are
three of them to be found in
each stage (1000 points each).
While they may be optional to
collect, you will need to have
them in order to pay and access
certain areas on the world map.


===========
Toad Houses
===========

Another aspect of Super Mario
Bros. 3 returns to this new
title as well. When you go to
this house, depending on the
color/size of the house, you
will get to do one of three
things, outlined below.

Green House: In this house, you
will play a mini-game of sorts.
There will be
   several blocks lined up: most
   1-Ups, one will have a multip
   the last one will be a Bowser
   more 1-Ups, but if you hit th
   You get to keep what you won 

Item House: In the regular
colored house, there will be a
giant item box in
   the middle of the room, visib
   (Mushroom, Fire Flower, Blue 
   item is displayed when you hi

Mega House: This large-sized
house will give you a Mega
Mushroom when you
   enter, that's all.


==============
Midpoint Flags
==============

As you run through a stage, you
may notice a white flag suddenly
appearing at a certain point in
each stage. When that happens,
you have just passed the stage's
midpoint. If you die or
exit/reenter the stage, you will
be able to start from the
midpoint (as long as you don't
enter another stage before
returning).


============
Progress Bar
============

When you are playing in an
actual level, if you look at the
touch screen there will be a
horizontal bar along the top. It
will show your current position
(as shown with Mario's head),
the level's midpoint (assuming
you passed it already), and the
stage's goal. The Mario icon
will move to the left or right
as you progress through the
level. It is a good way of
judging how far into a given
stage you are, and in some
places, if you're even going the
right way!


=============
Reserve Items
=============

On the touch screen, you will
notice there is a large circle
where an item can be held. When
you get an item from a Toad
House, that item will sit in
that slot. Also, suppose you are
playing a stage and you are Fire
Mario; if you find another Fire
Flower and you don't already
have a stored item, the extra
flower will go there. You can
use the item in reserve anytime
by touching it, obviously. When
you lose a life, you won't lose
that reserve item, which can
really be useful especially in
the later worlds.

Please note that certain items
have higher priority and will
replace a currently stored item
if you get them (if you have a
Fire Flower stored and you are
Shell Mario, when you find a
second Blue Shell it will
replace the Fire Flower). Also,
Mega Mushrooms from the Toad
House will replace any stored
item.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=======
World 1
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle W:
Warp Zone Cannon GT: Green Toad
House IT: Item Toad House MT:
Mega Toad House BT: Background
Toad House (only appears after
you beat the game) X: Path
Intersections/Empty Spots *:
Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

 BT          GT                M
 *           *                 |
 *           *^x5              |
S --- 1 --- 2 --- 3 --- X --- T 
   *           *     *          
   *           *     *          
   ****RT ****       **** W    I

Stage 1-1
---------

In this opening stage, you
should expect nothing out of the
ordinary, aside from the basics
in a Mario game. Go right and
hit the second block to get a
Mushroom, then stomp some
Goombas as you continue onward.
If you jump onto the block
formation ahead and hit the high
block enough times, you will get
a bunch of coins, as well as
another Mushroom (which you'll
most likely be storing right
now).

Up ahead, hit the lone block and
you can take a Mega Mushroom if
you're in the mood for wreaking
havoc in the region, as well as
gaining a 1-Up or so. Hop over a
pit and jump from the pipe to
reach some high blocks, then
jump to grab Star Coin #1. At
the next block formation, hit
the top middle block to make a
beanstalk appear. Climb it to a
secret cloud area, where you can
jump through a Red Ring to make
8 Red Coins appear for a limited
time. Collect them all and you
will receive a 1-Up, then drop
down to the area below once
more.

On the ground again, backtrack
to the left a little and go down
the pipe into an underground
area. Collect some coins and
crush some Goombas, and collect
Star Coin #2 at the far right
before going through the exit
pipe. Above ground once more, go
back left and ground pound
through some blocks to reach
Star Coin #3. With your
obligations done here, simply
head right to the steps. Jump up
them and hop over to the
flagpole to exit the first
stage!


Stage 1-2
---------

You start this underground stage
in a ground pound, dropping
through some blocks to collect
coins below (assuming you're
Super Mario). Hit the first
block to the right to get an
item (Mushroom or Fire Flower),
and ground pound some more to
collect coins if you desire. For
added coinage, you can ground
pound into a hidden area below
and grab 24 coins before
springing/jumping back to the
upper path.

Run and jump onto the blocks in
the air so you can reach Star
Coin #1 in the upper alcove,
then go down and continue right.
Get through some Goombas and a
Koopa Troopa, and you will reach
a block formation with Star Coin
#2 in the middle. Jump on the
Koopa Troopa and kick its shell
to break through the blocks,
netting you the coin in the
process.

Go right some more and run/jump
across the giant tilting
platforms. When you reach the
second tilting ledge, first
thing you should do is get rid
of the Koopa Troopa walking on
it. Then, stand on the left side
and run to the right, causing it
to sharply tilt upward to the
right.

Run up the hill and jump onto
the ceiling, and run right above
the first pipe to a hidden room
(don't do this and go into the
pipe only to access the regular
exit leading to Stage 1-3). In
the hidden room, pick up Star
Coin #3 and go through the pipe
to reach the secret goal, which
opens up a shortcut to the Tower
on the world map.


Stage 1-3
---------

Here, you will be faced with a
whole load of tall mushroom
platforms. Head right and jump
across some platforms,
collecting coins and crushing
Goombas along the way. When you
reach the Spin Block, jump onto
it and fly upward to the next
ledge. If you want to land
quickly, simply press Down on
the Control Pad to perform a
spinning drill stomp.

Jump onto the second Spin Block
and float upward while spinning.
Bounce on the mushroom platform
to reach Star Coin #1 above you.
Then, glide to the right while
following a coin trail through
the air. If you choose to fall,
there are platforms below, so
don't worry about that. You can
jump to an upper mushroom
platform to receive Star Coin #2
at the end of said coin trail.

Further along, there are a
series of tilted platforms that
move up and down, so jump across
them to reach Star Coin #3. Up
ahead is a Red Ring which you
can jump through to collect 8
Red Coins and gain an extra
life. Either way, continue right
across a few more wobbling
platforms to reach the flagpole.


Tower
-----

In the very first tower you'll
face, there are Dry Bones
enemies, which are impervious to
fireballs and will just come
back to life after a few moments
if you jump on them. Anyway,
jump up the ledges and through
the openings when the gray
blocks move apart. Be careful
that you don't get crushed
between the gray blocks when
jumping between them to reach an
upper ledge, though! For the
next part, wait for the entire
formation of gray blocks to move
down, then run left/right across
the area when the opening
appears. Then, jump up to the
ledge above you and run back
across at the next opening.

At the top of this formation, go
right and collect Star Coin #1.
Get to the left side and jump up
a couple ledges to reach a pipe.
Go down the pipe and you will be
launched straight up to a small
ledge. A line of coins will also
appear below you. Slide down the
left wall, collecting all the
coins, then wall jump to the
ledge with the door. Go inside
and jump to get Star Coin #2,
then exit through the lower
door.

NOTE: If you are Shell Mario and
you go into this room, jump to
the northeast
 opening and walk into a hidden 
 break through the blocks leadin
 jump to the flagpole and you wi

You will be to the right of the
pipe now. Jump upward into the
room ahead and wait for the gray
blocks to recede, then jump up
the blocks one at a time to
reach the top. Be careful of the
spikes to the left, though. At
the top, you will find Star Coin
#3. Above you are a series of
gray blocks that will come
together before withdrawing.
When there are openings, jump to
avoid being crushed. For the
final part, hop into the pipe
when the area above opens, and
you will be shot up to the top
section. Then, enter the door to
face off with Bowser Jr.

The fights with Bowser Jr. are
reminiscent of Koopaling/Boom-
Boom fights in Super Mario 3.
Bowser Jr. will run back and
forth trying to hit you, and all
you have to do is jump on his
head 3 times to win. You can
also shoot fireballs to defeat
him from a distance. Regardless
of how you do it, once he is
defeated, the stage is over.


Stage 1-4
---------

Here, slide down the hills and
defeat some enemies along the
way. You will see a really
skinny pipe below and a low
passage leading to it, as you
pass above them. Drop to the
right and hit the blocks to get
a Mini Mushroom to shrink down
to Mini Mario. Then, go left and
through that passage, and head
down that pipe. Run across the
water and collect the coins,
then wall jump at the other end
to reach Star Coin #1.

Go back across the water and
jump up to reach the exit pipe
on the ledge. Above ground
again, go down the hill with the
constant stream of Goombas
flowing from a pipe at the top.
To the right, hit the center ?
block to get a Mushroom to
become regular-sized again. Jump
on the Koopa Troopa and carry
its shell to the top of the
block formation to the right,
and let go. Let the shell break
all the blocks, giving you
access to the pipe below.

Go into the pipe and head all
the way right (do NOT collect
the coins in the air!). Hit the
right block at the end to reveal
a P switch. Hit it to make the
coins turn into blocks; jump
onto the temporary ledges and go
left to collect Star Coin #2. Go
right to exit the room, and you
will be outside once more.

Now, backtrack to the left a
bit, to the large block
formation. Wall jump to get past
it, then jump on the Koopa
Troopa and pick up its shell.
Now, head back right past the
Goomba pipe and you will come to
a downhill slope. Run down the
hill and go right to a low
passage which you cannot fit
through because of a low ceiling
and a pit. Throw the shell down
that hill and it'll cross the
pit, and then it will go up the
other side to collect Star Coin
#3 for you.

With that settled, go back left
and jump to the higher ledge,
and continue to the right. Go up
another hill, watching out for
the constant supply of Goombas
coming at you, then jump to the
flagpole for the finish.


Stage 1-5
---------

Here in this mushroom platform
stage, much of the area will be
dominated by the bouncy
platforms. Bounce to the right,
and double jump to reach Star
Coin #1 high in the air. Then,
continue to the right, past a
bunch of Koopa Troopas on the
platforms below (you can kick
the first one's shell to the
right and follow it to gain lots
of points, and eventually an
extra life).

Up ahead, jump onto the hanging
platforms (the ones where if you
stand on one, it will sink and
the other one rises). From
there, jump onto the higher
ledge with Star Coin #2 atop it.
You will now encounter some
normal mushroom ledges that you
can walk on. Go right until you
reach the next set of hanging
platforms, and use them to jump
into the upside-down pipe above.
Ride the wobbling mushroom
platform to the right in this
area, while jumping to collect
coins along the way. Near the
end, you can jump to get Star
Coin #3 in the middle of a coin
formation.

At the end of the ride, drop
down to the main stage below.
Defeat a couple of Koopa Troopas
before continuing right onto the
trampoline platforms once more.
Jump through a Red Ring and
collect the coins for a 1-Up if
you want, otherwise keep
bouncing to the right until you
reach the flagpole.


Stage 1-A
---------

When you enter this area, go
right and down the pipe to go
underwater to the main segment
of the stage. Down here, swim to
the right as the stage
automatically scrolls with you.
Hit the ? block to get an item
(if you are Fire Mario, you can
shoot fireballs at the fish
enemies to kill them; don't ask
me why fire works here, it's a
video game!). Collect some coins
that are floating in bubbles,
and hit the upside-down P switch
to make some coins appear in the
area ahead.

Swim between the bubbles and
grab a bunch of coins if you
want, as you head to the right.
You will spot Star Coin #1 above
you, but if you try to swim
upward at it, invisible blocks
will appear. A block does not
exist below and to the right of
the coin, so quickly find the
opening and grab your coin.
Continue to the right, and swim
into the upside-down pipe to
reach an above ground area. Jump
to collect Star Coin #2, then go
down the right pipe to submerge
once more.

Continue swimming to the right,
being cautious of the increasing
onslaught of sharks coming from
behind. Swim through the Red
Ring and collect the Red Coins
if you want, while avoiding the
sharks. Farther to the right,
swim toward the middle area to
avoid the sharks and you will
spot Star Coin #3 on a ledge
above you. You will have to swim
right and then to the left in
order to access it, though.
There will be another upside-
down P switch for more coin
collecting if you wish. If not,
then just keep going right to
the final pipe leading to the
flagpole.


Castle
------

The final stage in this and
every world is the castle, where
you will have to face a world
boss. Anyway, start off by
jumping to the right and walking
across a tightrope of sorts.
Avoid the fireball coming out of
the lava at the other end, and
jump to the next ledge. Go
across another rope, then
continue right across some
rising and falling platforms.
Further ahead is a rather
lengthy segment of spiky
ceilings which will slowly move
downward to the floor before
rising up again. If you are
Shell Mario, you can get through
this rather quickly.

Halfway through the area with
the spiked ceilings, you will
reach a safe spot between
ceilings with Star Coin #1 above
you. When the spiked ceilings
around you are down, wall jump
to reach the coin. When the
ceiling goes up, run to the
right and you will have reached
the halfway point. Go across a
rope and hit the block above you
to get an item. Up ahead is a
Dry Bones on a low platform that
moves up and down. If you wait a
few moments, a much smaller
block will rise to the right;
jump to it and you will claim
Star Coin #2.

From here, jump to the rope
above and continue right. Jump
to the second rope and avoid the
fireballs, then bounce upward to
reach a hidden upside-down pipe
(be careful as you run back and
forth trying to double jump). In
the hidden room above, collect
Star Coin #3 before going back
down again. From here, go right
to the red door.

In the final room, go right and
you will face off with Bowser at
the end. The battlefield is
quite familiar as well, for
those of you who have played the
original Super Mario Bros.
Bowser will slowly move towards
you, jumping every now and then
to spit a fireball in your
direction. You can defeat Bowser
in a few different ways here.
You can run under him when he
jumps, and hit the red switch to
the right. Secondly, you can
jump onto the platform above you
and dash jump right over Bowser
to hit the switch. If you want a
more traditional fight, you can
always use fireballs as Fire
Mario.

Regardless of how you do it,
when you win the fight, you will
go on to the second world,
having completed World 1!


=======
World 2
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle P:
Pipe W: Warp Zone Cannon GT:
Green Toad House IT: Item Toad
House MT: Mega Toad House X:
Path Intersections/Empty Spots
*: Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

  IT                      MT    
   |                       |    
   |^x5                    |^x5 
S --- 1 --- 2 --------- 3 ------
      *           *             
      *           *             
    W *** A --- P      *********


Stage 2-1
---------

In the first area in this desert
world, hit the second block to
get an item, then head up the
hill and jump over Pokey (the
segmented cactus). Go down and
avoid the Spiny, and hit the
yellow block a few times, then
jump from it to get over the
next Pokey. To the right,
collect Star Coin #1 in the air,
then wait for the Pokey to come
down the hill before jumping
over it. Continue along the
path, jumping over the Pokeys as
the platforms they sit on sink.

Further ahead, wait for the
platform with the Pokey on it to
move upward, then jump over the
gap to receive Star Coin #2.
Keep going to the right and hop
over some more Pokeys, then hit
a ? block to get another item.
Jump across a series of solid
platforms while making it over
the Pokeys (if you are Fire
Mario, you can shoot them down).
Collect Star Coin #3 on one of
the lower platforms, then
continue right into the pipe.
(Just before the exit pipe,
there are smaller pipes you can
enter if you are Mini Mario,
which lead to a secret coin
room.)

When you emerge, go right and
hit the center block to find a P
switch. Hit it to make the coins
above the final Pokey turn into
blocks. Jump onto them and make
a running leap to the flagpole
to finish off the level.


Stage 2-2
---------

Here, head to the right and you
will soon see Lakitu floating
overhead, dropping Spiny enemies
on you periodically. Since he is
so high up, it may be hard to
defeat Lakitu, but it is
possible. Head to the right and
jump to the higher blocks (hit
the ? blocks to get items), then
shoot a fireball at Lakitu to
knock him out of the cloud. You
can then ride in the cloud until
it disappears, so take full
advantage of this. Fly to the
right until you see a bunch of
coins surrounded by blocks on
the ground, then from that point
fly directly upward to find Star
Coin #1 high above.

Continue to the right and jump
over a couple gaps, as well as a
Piranha Plant. Past the first
plant, ground pound through the
blocks in the ground, and go
right to grab Star Coin #2. Keep
going to the right while
avoiding the Lakitu onslaught,
and you will reach yellow and
green pipes. Go into the green
one and it will shoot you high
into the air. Hold Up as you
rocket upward, and you will
enter an upside-down pipe.

In this bonus room, hop into
either of the green pipes to
rocket upward, collecting a
whole lot of coins on the way.
At the peak of your jump, move
to the side to collect Star Coin
#3. Go down the red pipe to exit
here, then jump to the right
onto the tilting mushroom
platform. Run up the hill it
forms and jump to grab the
flagpole at the end.


Stage 2-3
---------

From the start, go right and
down the pipe into the sewer
maze below. Slide down the long
hill, defeating numerous Koopa
Troopas, then drop down at the
end. Go right and wall jump to
the hill above the manhole, and
run up to get Star Coin #1. Go
back down and ground pound on
the manhole to drop down some
more. Head to the left and hit
the block to get an item, then
defeat the bat as it swoops down
from the ceiling. Go all the way
left and ground pound through 3
manholes, then continue right
along the lower area.

In the next room with the arrow
flippers, defeat the Piranha
Plant with a fireball if you
can, otherwise jump to the
higher ledges to avoid it. Make
your way around to collect Star
Coin #2, then go down and right
to a new area. There, go right
past the midpoint and slide down
another hill. At the bottom, go
down and to the right (if you go
up and left, you can hit a coin
block and jump to a hidden block
containing a 1-Up).

When you can jump onto a ledge
above you, do so and head left
to a ? switch. Step on it to
make the water rise in the room.
So, head right and jump to the
top ledge, and swim all the way
right through to the following
room.

NOTE: If you are up for
exploring and swim into the
opening in the ceiling,
 you will reach a coin room and 
 that switch to raise the water 
 ledge. Note that if you don't d
 first switch again and the seco
 pressed, saving you some time. 
 reach a secret exit leading to 

In the next area, go right and
jump over the giant plant (or
kill it with fire), then go up
the hill. At the top, jump to
the left ledge. Hop onto a ledge
to the left, then jump to the
right ledge above. Run to the
right, dropping off the ledge
onto another one, and collect
Star Coin #3.

From here, drop down to the
lower area and head right. Go up
another hill and jump up through
the thin ledges and out of a
manhole above. Go right and jump
through the ledge to the top
area, and hit the ! switch to
the right. This will create a
red walkway above the Piranha
Plant below, allowing for safe
passage to the exit. As soon as
you hit the switch, drop through
the flippers to the bottom area,
then quickly jump up the ledges
to the left and run across the
walkway before it vanishes.

When you exit to the outside,
jump onto the springboard if you
want added points on the
flagpole in front of you.
Otherwise, jump at the pole to
exit this stage.


Stage 2-A
---------

In this tropical oasis stage,
head right and defeat some Koopa
Troopas. You will notice the
infamous giant fish in the
waters below, which will try to
jump and devour you whole. If
you are Fire Mario, you can
shoot it down temporarily, which
majorly helps. Go right and when
you reach the chance to take a
lower path, do so and you will
find Star Coin #1.

Jump to the upper ledges and go
right some more to find some
Spin Blocks. Use them to fly
high up in the air and collect a
whole lot of coins. Farther to
the right you will see Star Coin
#2 in the air, so glide downward
and to the right to claim it.
While spin gliding still, float
to the right and land on the
Koopa Troopa to launch up into
the air once more. Land on the
upper ledge and go through the
yellow pipe (if you want to get
the regular exit leading to the
pipe, take the green pipe
below).

If you took the yellow pipe,
jump to claim Star Coin #3 in
the next room. After you take
the red pipe, go right and jump
onto the secret exit flagpole,
and you will gain access to the
Cannon.


Stage 2-4
---------

In this stage, start by going
right and hitting the ? block to
make a hill form, allowing you
to hit the blocks above.
Continue to the right, stomping
the Goombas and Koopa Troopas
along the way. Hop over a gap
and take the low path at the
other side. Wait for the Piranha
Plant to recede into the pipe,
then jump to collect Star Coin
#1.

Drop back down when the plant
retreats, then jump to the upper
ledge and continue to the right.
Go down the hill when it's safe,
while avoiding the Piranha
Plants along the way. When you
hit the water, swim to the right
until you can jump onto dry land
again (if you are Mini Mario,
run across the water to the left
and go into the skinny pipe,
which will lead to a hidden
exit, forming a shortcut on the
world map).

Instead of going up the dry
hill, sink into the water a
little and swim to the right
underneath the wall. Go down the
red pipe in the hidden area, and
swim through the room with the
Cheep Cheeps. Head up the pipe
at the other end, and run left
to find Star Coin #2.

Next, hit the upside-down ?
block to make a hill form
leading out of this area. Jump
up the hill to the upper ledge
and continue to the right. Drop
down and hit the blocks to
reveal yet another ? block; hit
that and a couple of hills will
form on the landscape ahead.
Jump over or defeat the Piranha
Plants along the way, then jump
from the second hill onto the
upper ledge to the right. Evade
or defeat the Hammer Bros here,
and collect Star Coin #3 on the
middle ledge.

After that, go right and defeat
a couple more Koopa Troopas.
Then, jump up the steps and leap
towards the flagpole to exit the
stage.


Tower
-----

In here, go right and jump onto
the rotating ledges. Ride them
to the right, then hop onto the
next side. At the top, jump atop
the blue blocks and then onto
another set of rotating ledges.
Head to the left ledge and
defeat a Dry Bones, then grab
onto and climb to the left via
the rope. Hop up to the upper
area, and ride yet another
rotating ledge.

Up here, ride the platforms to
the upper area, then jump to the
rope above. Climb to the right,
then drop onto the next set of
rotating ledges. Use the Red
Ring if you want to try for a
1-Up, then go down and right to
collect Star Coin #1. Ride the
platforms back up to the rope,
then go back left and ride the
first set of ledges to the
upper-left corner. Jump to the
small ledge over there to the
left. Wall jump to a door high
above, and enter that room.

You will see a couple of yellow
walls hanging from a track
above. Constantly wall jump
inside this contraption as it
rides all along the track. When
you reach the upper-right area,
drop down and hop up the side
ledges, then when the yellow
encasement drops down, ride it
to the left and jump to receive
Star Coin #2.

From here, jump to the upper
ledge and wall jump in the next
yellow encasement above. At the
top, drop down and go through
the door to exit this room. Drop
into the room below and hit the
red block to make rotating red
blocks appear. Start by jumping
across the two rotating blocks
you formed, and wall jump upward
in the space between the wall
and the pipe, hitting the red
block in the air. This will make
a new block form to the left.

Drop down to the ground below
and defeat the Dry Bones, then
head left. Jump from the far
left red block onto the upper
triangular rotating platform.
From it, jump upward to the
newly formed rectangular block,
then simply jump into the air to
reach Star Coin #3. After this,
go back to the right and hop
from the red block to reach the
rotating blocks.

Jump across the blocks, then go
into the upside-down red pipe
above. In the small room you
emerge in, go through the door
to meet Bowser Jr. The battle
platform will be smaller, so you
can fall off and die, so be
careful. After the fight, you
will clear the tower and move
on.


Stage 2-5
---------

Over here, head to the right and
ground pound the blocks if you
want some coins. You will start
to encounter block monster
enemies, disguised as blocks
with a ? block at the bottom.
Ground pound through the stack
to defeat those. Anyway, go
right to the first bunch of them
and you will see some coins in
the air above a pile of blocks.
Wait for the block monster to
jump upward, then dash jump
toward the coins and with luck
you will grab Star Coin #1 in
the air above.

Further ahead, you will reach
several gray blocks with fire
snake enemies jumping along
them, as well as more of those
block monsters. Go to the third
set of gray blocks and lure the
fire enemy into the pit, then
jump onto the block enemy. Face
the left to make it run in that
direction, then when it jumps,
hop up as well to collect Star
Coin #2 (this may take some
time). Alternatively, there are
3 blocks to the right; hit one
to find a P switch, then jump
onto the newly formed blocks to
reach the star coin.

Keep going to the right and you
will have to defeat a Boomerang
Bro. There will be some
quicksand below that platform;
sink into it and move to the
right. You will see a gray block
under the regular exit pipe;
jump to that block and go right
to enter a hidden room. Drop
down all the ledges and go right
to a block monster. When it
jumps, do a jump as well to
reach Star Coin #3.

Finally, go back left and jump
up the gray blocks to exit this
underground room. Then, go right
to the flagpole, using the block
monster for added height if you
so desire.


Stage 2-6
---------

In the opening area, jump across
the ledges and jump into the
upside-down pipe to reach the
main area of the level. When you
emerge, you will be on a large
moving platform for much of the
stage. Jump to collect coins,
and hit the blocks to get an
item. Up ahead you will see
Piranha Plants moving on their
own platforms. Stay toward the
middle of your platform, since
two of the plants will end up
occupying the edges.

When the plant to the right
leaves your platform, jump in
the air as you pass to get Star
Coin #1. Continue along and you
will see a second large platform
above you; jump onto it to get
it moving. Be careful of the
up/down moving platforms since
the Piranha Plants may sit on
them and move around, so try not
to run/jump into them if you can
help it. Stay on the upper
platform and you will soon come
to Star Coin #2.

Below you will be a giant
Piranha Plant, but it won't
reach you, so don't worry. Up
ahead, the two large platforms
will disappear, leaving you on a
bunch of smaller ledges. Jump
across them, being careful of
the plants above you, and jump
in the air to collect Star Coin
#3. After jumping across several
more moving platforms, you will
reach the end ledge. There is a
Piranha Plant sitting on a cork,
which blocks access to the pipe.
Jump on the air pump below a few
times to remove the cork and
plant. Then, go down the pipe
and head right to the flagpole.


Castle
------

When you start, wait for the
giant spiked ball to roll
downward and into the pit, then
head to the right. Jump over
some smaller spiked balls along
the way. Grab onto a rope
hanging from the ceiling, and
swing/jump from it to avoid the
spiked ball below, while
collecting coins in the air. Go
right through the narrow
hallway, ducking into the small
pits to avoid the spiked balls
as they pass.

When you reach the split in the
path, wall jump to the upper
area and grab Star Coin #1 in
the alcove. Go back down and
continue to the right from here,
then go through the door to
reach an outside area. Out
there, go right and avoid the
Bullet Bills being shot at you.
When you reach the inner
segment, wait for the Bullet
Bills to be shot, then jump from
them to the upper ledge where
Star Coin #2 is waiting.

After that, go right and duck
when the Bullet Bills are coming
at you. At the end, jump onto
the ? switch to form a pit
below. Jump over the spiked ball
and get across that pit, then go
up the other side and continue
right. Hit a block on the next
ledge to get a Mini Mushroom,
then head right some more. Avoid
the spiked balls as they come
down the steps, and run through
the tiny passage in between the
steps to reach Star Coin #3.

Hit the right block to get a
Mushroom, then jump out of there
and go right. Stomp on the ?
switch and a pit will form.
Avoid the spiked ball and enter
the door at the bottom of the
pit. In the next room, go right
across the sand and you will
reach the boss's chamber.

The Mummipokey boss will come
out of the sand, will sometimes
shoot a sand ball at you, then
retreats into the sand before
popping up again elsewhere. You
will know where the boss is
going to appear next by looking
at the dust that kicks up in a
certain spot. To defeat it, you
have to jump on its head 3 times
(or use fireballs). You won't
always be able to jump and
attack, since the boss can
either re-emerge very small, or
very tall.

After you beat the boss, grab
the golden key to complete this
world. You will then
automatically run to the next
room, with a sign leading to
World 3 pointing to the right.
If you beat this boss as Mini
Mario, you will drop into the
crack in the floor, and the sign
will flip around to say World 4
instead. Try beating the boss in
both forms and you will unlock
both of these worlds!


=======
World 3
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle W:
Warp Zone Cannon GH: Ghost House
GT: Green Toad House IT: Item
Toad House MT: Mega Toad House
X: Path Intersections/Empty
Spots *: Secret path unlocked by
findi x#: Pay the designated
amount of Star Coins to open the
path.

 /--- 1 ---------\           MT 
 |                 |            
 |                 |            
S --- X          IT     X --- 2 
 |vx5        *     |     *      
 |           *     |     *      
 \--------- A ---/       **** B 


Stage 3-1
---------

In the opening stage of this
watery world, go right and down
the pipe. When you reach the
underwater area, swim to the
right and avoid the large and
small Cheep Cheeps you
encounter. If you hit the first
couple of blocks, you can get an
item (if you are Fire Mario
here, this level will be a
breeze).

You can swim through a Red Ring
in the upper area and collect
some Red Coins for a 1-Up.
Further ahead, when you pass the
midpoint, you will find a mixed
item box; hit it when the item
you want appears and you will
get it. Continue right past some
more fish enemies, and you will
see some pipes blowing air
upward. When you reach the
formation of 3 pipes, the middle
one will not be blowing air, so
drop onto it and go into the
room below. Swim to the right in
this coin bubble room, and
collect Star Coin #1.

Go up the pipe to exit this
room, then continue to the
right. You will spot Star Coin
#2 up above, so swim up to it
from below, being careful not to
get pushed away by the air
coming from the pipes. Try your
best to avoid the blue fish
which will home in on you and
try to eat you; fireballs are
your best bet here.

Keep going right and you will
find an upside-down P switch;
hit it to turn the blocks into
coins. Then, quickly swim to the
right and up to get Star Coin #3
before the coins revert back to
blocks. Ahead is a more
difficult Red Ring/Coin layout,
followed by the exit pipe. Go up
the pipe to reach dry land, then
all that's left is for you to
jump to the flagpole and exit.


Stage 3-A
---------

Here, you will be able to swim
around in the water as well as
jump along dry land. Head to the
right, stomping on the water
spiders along the way. There is
a Red Ring under the water if
you want to check it out. Keep
going right for a while until
you reach an area where there
are outlines of blocks in the
air, and a ! switch underwater.
Hit the switch, then jump out of
the water and onto the red
blocks so you can reach the
upper-right area.

From there, go right and defeat
a Koopa Troopa on the platform.
Drop into the water to the right
and you will see a bunch of
blocks, and a water spider
dropping bombs to clear said
blocks. Move around to clear the
entire area while you avoid
getting hit yourself, then
collect Star Coin #1 when you
are able to.

Swim to the right and hit the
underwater block to get a Mini
Mushroom. Go back up to the
surface and jump onto the
barrels. Bounce off the back of
one of the Koopa Troopas to
obtain Star Coin #2 high above.
Run across the water to the
right until you reach the pipe.
Go through the pipe to reach the
next area of the stage.

In this next area, go right
across the water and go into the
first upside- down pipe you see.
There, run across the water and
jump to get Star Coin #3 above
you. Go down the pipe at the
other end, then continue to the
right while avoiding the water
spiders. Jump across the
spinning ledges to the exit
pipe, then go into the pipe and
head right to the flagpole.


Stage 3-2
---------

In this fairly simple area, make
your way to the right by going
across the wobbling mushroom
platforms and stomping Goombas
along the way. When you reach
the elevator platforms, jump
from them to collect coins, then
continue right to the midpoint.
Go down the yellow pipe and head
right to collect Star Coin #1
when the platform tilts high
enough for you to jump.

Go up the pipe at the far right
to exit this room. In the main
area again, go right and jump
across a series of elevator
platforms. At the end, jump to
the high ledge to receive Star
Coin #2. Continue to the right
and you will reach a giant
wobbling mushroom platform that
moves to the right as you stand
on it. You will spot red,
yellow, and green pipes
overhead.

If you want to go for the secret
exit, go up the green pipe, then
down the right pipe. In the
following room, jump across a
series of wobbling mushroom
platforms to reach the secret
flagpole leading to Stage 3-B.

If you aren't going for the
secret exit though, simply
ignore the colored pipes
overhead. When you reach the
regular platforms again, jump
onto them. Go through a Red Ring
if you want, otherwise continue
to the right and onto another
wobbling mushroom platform.

Head to the right while on this
platform, and you will see a
Paratroopa in the air. Try not
to kill it early on; instead
wait until you see Star Coin #3
above, then bounce off the
enemy's head to reach it (make
sure your platform is in reach
though). You can probably jump
to reach it from the platform if
the tilt is sharp enough.
Continue to the right and jump
onto the solid ground, and the
flagpole will be up ahead.


Stage 3-B
---------

In this pipe-filled stage, you
will have to deal with plenty of
Piranha Plants as you progress.
If you are Fire Mario, you will
once again have an easy time
getting through this. Anyway,
make your way to the right while
hopping from pipe to pipe,
evading the plants if you have
to. Up ahead you will find a
star coin in an enclosed area
below your feet.

To reach it, continue to the
right and you will find a whole
series of pipes. Go down the low
red pipe, then head left through
the room you turn up in. Avoid
the plants and go up the other
red pipe to emerge, collecting
Star Coin #1 in the process. Go
back down and hit the mix item
box, then go right and up the
first red pipe once again.

Back in the pipe maze of sorts,
go right and jump onto a yellow
pipe. When the coast is clear,
jump to the next green pipe.
Wall jump between the pipes
above you to reach the alcove to
the right, where Star Coin #2 is
located. Jump back around to
reach the lower area, then
continue to the right in the
same fashion, being cautious of
the Piranha Plants.

Towards the end, you will find
Star Coin #3 below one of the
pipes, which you can easily
access. From there, simply go
right to the flagpole.


Stage 3-C
---------

Here, you will have to deal with
that giant fish that jumps out
of the water again. If you are
Fire Mario, you can shoot it
down each time it appears to
help yourself out. Either way,
head to the right by jumping
from platform to platform. Be
careful because some of the
smaller platforms (you'll know
them when you see them) will
fall when you step on them). Go
right and sink with the smaller
platforms to collect Star Coin
#1.

Continue to the right and you
will have to deal with flying
Cheep Cheeps. At least there
will be plenty of coins in the
air to collect. Pass the
midpoint and you will reach a
structure with Star Coin #2
under it. If you can kill off
the big fish, it will make
things much easier for you right
now. Go into the water and swim
under the coin, then jump up to
get it before swimming back out
from under this structure.

Go right and hit the upside-down
P switch to turn the coins into
blocks, and to make some blue
coins appear in the air. Go
right quickly and hit the ?
block to receive a Starman, then
quickly dash/jump your way to
the right. When you reach the
platform of blocks (hopefully
before they turn back into
coins), jump into the red
upside-down pipe. When you
emerge, fall with the platform
below you to get Star Coin #3,
then go right to the flagpole.


Tower
-----

When you enter, you will see 3
pipes on the floor in front of
you. The middle one is the only
working one, and it will shoot
you upward to the fences. Don't
grab onto the upper fence yet
though; wait until you fall to
the second one, then grab onto
it by pressing Up. Climb to the
left, then jump to the upper-
left fence. Defeat some Koopa
Troopas by hitting them from
above or punching through the
fences when they are at the
other side. When you get to the
top, jump to the upper ledge and
jump again to get Star Coin #1.

Drop back down to the ground and
use the middle pipe to launch a
second time. This time, grab
onto the fence at the peak of
your shot. Make your way to the
top fence, then punch through to
flip around to the opposite
side. Take note that until you
hit another flip panel on the
fences, you will be behind the
fences.

Jump onto the regular platforms
above and go left, then climb
the fence and get to the ledge
above. Go left and jump on the
Koopa Troopa, then jump and toss
its shell to the block wall to
the right. Slide under the
opening and jump to break the
left half of that wall. Wall
jump to the room above where
another flip panel is located.
Go to the right side and climb
onto the fence, and punch it to
flip back to the front side.
Drop down to the left and
collect Star Coin #2 now that
you are able to do so.

Next, go back right and wall
jump to the fence you can flip
around. Go right and jump to hit
the blocks above you, then enter
the door there. In this tall
room, hit the ! switch to make
red blocks appear in the room,
but get ready to move fast! Hold
B and jump, then quickly
climb/jump your way through this
room, while avoiding the Koopa
Troopas on the fences. If you
make it to the top on time, grab
Star Coin #3 and enter the next
room.

In the final room, jump up and
left, and go through the door to
meet Bowser Jr. There is water
below the battle platform that
you can fall into, but you
shouldn't really worry about
that. Pounce on Bowser Jr. 3
times to win, as usual.


Stage 3-3
---------

Here, go right and down the
green pipe to enter this
underwater stage. Down here, you
not only have to outmaneuver
Cheep Cheeps, but the Bloopers
as well. They can get annoying,
so hopefully you have a Fire
Flower in store for this stage.
Swim to the right, collecting
coins and hitting the blocks
along the way, while avoiding
the enemies. Up ahead, you will
reach a green pipe followed by
what appears to be a pit. Sink
all the way down that pit and
you will find a hidden room with
Star Coin #1 to the left.

Also in this deep pit is a ?
switch. Hit it and all the pipes
to the right will stop shooting
air bubbles for a limited time.
So, swim back up and go right,
and downward. Swim through the
Red Ring if you want, otherwise
keep going to the right. You
will see a series of pipes
forming steps; go down the third
pipe and you will enter a large
coin room. Swim to the bottom-
right corner of the room to find
Star Coin #2.

To exit this room, get to the
upper-right area. Swim your way
upward through the currents, and
continue to the right. You will
see an arrow sign pointing at
the upside-down pipe above you.
Before you go there though, sink
to the bottom area through the
currents, and collect Star Coin
#3. Be quick to swim back up
since 4 Bloopers will appear as
soon as you grab the coin.

Go back up to the top and
through the upside-down pipe.
Once outside on dry land, simply
jump up the pipes and leap
towards the flagpole to exit.


Ghost House
-----------

In this house full of Boos, head
to the right. When you reach the
steep hill, take the lower path
and hit the ? switch to make
steps appear. Jump up the hill
and slide down the other side.
As a note when dealing with
ghosts: if you turn your back to
them, they will approach you;
face them and they will turn
away. With that said, continue
right. Go into the door you see
and hit the blocks inside to
find a Boo and an item
(Mushroom/Fire Flower).

Leave the room and continue
going right until you reach the
platform that moves up and down.
Enter the door to the right of
it for now, and bounce on the
pumpkin enemies to grab Star
Coin #1 in the air. Exit the
room and wait for the platform
to come down. At that point, hit
the ? switch and ride the
platform upward. Quickly jump to
the steps to the right, then go
up them and jump to the upper-
left steps. If you reach the top
before the steps retract, you
will be able to claim Star Coin
#2.

Go back down and hit the switch
again, but this time, continue
to the right from the first set
of stairs. Go right and down the
hill, then turn left at the
bottom. Hit the block to reveal
a ? switch; hit it to make a
door appear above you. Go back
right and up the steps, then
drop down and head through that
door.

NOTE: If you want to reach the
secret exit that leads to the
Cannon, follow
 these instructions. Hit the las
 right and wall jump against the
 quicker. Jump up the steps and 
 set of steps fast. Once at the 
 doors. Go into the left door an
 flagpole.

In the new room, first jump up
the ledges to the left and you
will come to a mixed item box.
You will need to be Shell Mario
for the next part, so try and
stop it on the Blue Shell (if
you are unsuccessful, come back
later to do this). Drop down to
the lower area and head right to
the ? switch. Hit it and jump up
all the stairs to the very top.
Once there, if you are Shell
Mario, run and slide in shell
form through the blocks to the
right, then continue through the
opening to get Star Coin #3.

When you're done here, go
through the door. Now that you
are outside of the ghost house,
jump up the blocks to the right
and leap towards the flagpole to
exit this stage.


Castle
------

In the first area, there will be
a series of giant spiked columns
that come crashing down from the
ceiling before retracting. Stay
back and wait for the first
column to go up, then jump
across to the next safe ledge.
Up ahead you will see Star Coin
#1 in a small alcove below; when
the spiked columns go up, drop
down to get the coin, then stand
there and wait for the column to
come down and go up again.

Continue to the right as you
have been, then hit the block at
the midpoint to get an item. Go
right, being careful of the
Whomps (when they fall, ground
pound to defeat them). Climb the
rope and keep going to the right
for now. Hop across the donut
blocks in the water, then jump
onto the rope hanging from the
ceiling. Swing to the left ledge
and wall jump through the hole
in the ceiling. Up there, go
left and drop down to get Star
Coin #2, which you passed up
earlier.

Now, go back to the right and
swing from the second rope once
again. Jump over the giant Whomp
and jump across the donut blocks
when the spiked column goes back
into the water. On the next
platform, hit the block to get
an item, then wait for the
passage ahead to clear up before
dashing/jumping through it. It
is possible to clear the entire
path if you run and jump
straight through without making
mistakes.

When you make it to the end, you
will see the red boss door.
Don't enter it at first, instead
wait for the spiked column to
the right to go back upward.
Then, slide under the wall and
swim against the left wall until
the column goes down and up
again. As it goes up, jump to
the upper ledge and then onto
the high ledge with Star Coin #3
on it. When it's safe to leave,
go back down and left, and enter
the boss's door.

In here, jump over the water pit
and go right to face the giant
Cheep Cheep boss, Cheepskipper.
The large fish, as well as 3
regular-sized Cheep Cheeps will
be swimming around below,
periodically jumping out to hit
you. The battle plan here is to
move around and wait for the
giant Cheep Cheep to jump out,
then you have to jump on its
head to cause damage. Do this 3
times to win the fight.

With the fight over, collect the
golden boss key and you will be
on your way to World 5 (or you
can select World 4 on the touch
screen if you unlocked it)!


=======
World 4
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle W:
Warp Zone Cannon GH: Ghost House
GT: Green Toad House IT: Item
Toad House MT: Mega Toad House
X: Path Intersections/Empty
Spots *: Secret path unlocked by
findi x#: Pay the designated
amount of Star Coins to open the
path.

  IT                      IT ---
   |                         <-x
   |^x5                         
S --- 1 --- 2 --------- 3 --- T 
 *                       *      
 *                       *      
 **********GT **********        


Stage 4-1
---------

Starting off this new world,
make your way to the right,
while stomping Koopa Troopas and
hanging spiders along the way.
There will be some blocks you
can hit, which will give you
items. You can also rack up the
points rather quickly by
bouncing from enemy to enemy.
Along the way you will have to
bounce from the enemies to reach
Star Coin #1 in the air.

Continue to the right and you
will find Nessie, the friendly
sea monster, in the water. When
you jump on her back, she will
start to move to the right. Be
careful of the enemies along the
way. When you see Star Coin #2
in the air, jump and bounce off
a hanging spider to retrieve it.
Continue riding along Nessie
until you reach the dry land
again, then jump onto the next
ledge.

NOTE: While riding Nessie, you
can reach a secret exit. When
you come to the
 part with 5 blocks you can stan
 reveal a hidden block containin
 pipe, then hop across the spide
 This path will lead to a Green 
 shortcut to the Tower.

Assuming you didn't take the
shortcut, continue riding Nessie
until you reach dry land, then
jump off her back. Continue to
the right by jumping across
donut blocks and defeating some
spider enemies. Towards the end,
drop to the lower donut blocks
and hop over the poisonous water
to grab Star Coin #3. Then,
continue to the right and jump
to the flagpole to finish the
stage.


Stage 4-2
---------

In this area full of mushroom
platforms, head to the right by
jumping from ledge to ledge.
There are purple and orange
platforms here as you will see;
those are the ones that will
tilt sharply as you stand/walk
on them, so be very careful. To
safely travel across them, keep
hopping. When you reach the area
with several blocks, hit the
first one to get a 1-Up, then
continue to the right. When you
spot Star Coin #1 in the air,
stand on the mushroom platform
to tilt it slightly, then wall
jump from the high ledge above
to reach the coin.

From here, hop across a few more
purple mushroom platforms and
you will come across Star Coin
#2 below one of them. Defeat the
Koopa Troopa on that platform,
then stand at the right edge so
it tilts enough, allowing you to
get the coin. Make sure you
quickly jump up to avoid falling
to your death, though.

As you continue to the right,
you will see some steps and a
single block in the ground. Go
right and drop onto the mushroom
platform, then jump to the left
ledge and hit that block from
below to reveal a beanstalk.
Climb it to reach a hidden cloud
area. Jump from the pipe to the
upper clouds, then hit the next
block to reveal another
beanstalk. Climb to the very top
of the area to find Star Coin
#3, then drop to the bottom
cloud and go down the pipe.

When you land, simply continue
to the right by hopping from
platform to platform, until you
reach the flagpole. Then, jump
onto the pole and the level will
be over.


Stage 4-3
---------

In here, go down the steps and
into the pipe to submerge into
the watery area below. There,
swim to the right and the screen
will start to automatically
scroll along with you. Stay
along the lower area of the
screen, since a giant eel (from
Super Mario 64) will pass
through the area above you. Up
ahead, collect the coins and hit
some blocks as you swim along.
You will see Star Coin #1 under
an alcove ahead, so swim around
from the right side to grab it.

Swim upward to avoid the eel as
it crashes through some blocks.
Go through the Red Ring ahead if
you want to do the red coin
challenge, otherwise move around
to avoid the smaller eels
popping out of the walls, as
well as the giant eel when it
makes another pass above you.
Near the bottom of the screen is
Star Coin #2, so swim down to
get it while avoiding the small
eels on both sides.

Further ahead, you will spot a ?
switch on the ceiling. If you
hit it, the pipes ahead of you
will stop shooting air bubbles
for a limited time. Stay low to
avoid the eel, but try to get as
far to the right as possible.
Before the timer for that switch
goes off, go down the green pipe
into a hidden room. Swim
counter-clockwise through here
to get Star Coin #3, then exit
through the same pipe you came
down through.

From here, continue to the right
until you reach another
structure in the way. Avoid the
Cheep Cheep and stay toward the
ceiling to avoid the eel's final
pass through the area. Then,
swim right to the final upside-
down pipe and enter it to reach
dry land. After that, simply hop
up the steps and defeat the
Goomba, and jump to the flagpole
to exit here.


Tower
-----

In the starting room, defeat the
Dry Bones and wall jump your way
up to the top area (be careful
not to get crushed by the walls
though). At the top, hit the
block to get an item, then go
into the next room. In there,
you will notice that the lava is
rising from below, and you must
hurry up to avoid being killed.
Jump and climb your way up the
fences, as you head towards the
top of this room. When you reach
the part where a gray block
moves up and down in the center
area, go left. Jump to the upper
fence and punch the flip panel
to appear on the back side, then
drop down to get Star Coin #1.

Continue jumping and climbing
your way upward on a few more
fences. When you reach the wide,
long fence with the electrical
ball enemies above it, climb to
the right and jump to collect
Star Coin #2. Climb to the left
and jump onto an upper ledge
from there. Hop up the steps
when the spiked blocks move up,
then continue climbing the
fences.

Defeat the Dry Bones as you
cross the room, then go directly
upward by jumping from fence to
fence when the gray blocks move
away. When you reach the ledge
with an opening and a long gray
block moving back and forth,
jump onto the block and squat
down as you pass under the wall.
At the other side, jump up to
get Star Coin #3. Then, stand on
the left edge of that gray block
and duck down to get back under
the wall.

From here, climb up the left
fence and jump through the Red
Ring if you want. Then,
climb/jump up along the
remaining fences to the top
area. Once there, go through the
door to meet Bowser Jr.

The battle plan here is slightly
different than what you're used
to. If you try to jump at him,
Bowser Jr. will go into his
shell, causing you to take
damage upon impact. The key here
is to jump over him when he
charges at you, and wait until
he throws a green shell at you.
At that point, jump onto the
shell and grab it, then toss it
back at him to flip him over.
Then, jump on Bowser Jr's belly
to cause damage. Do this three
times to win the fight.


Stage 4-4
---------

In this stage, go right and you
will meet the caterpillar known
as Wiggler, from Super Mario
World. You cannot destroy them
normally, unless you were Shell
Mario, but if you jump on them
they will become mad, as you
will see. You can also bounce on
their backs to reach areas high
above. Anyway, go right through
the first part of the area by
jumping across platforms and
defeating various enemies.

When you reach a formation of
steps, followed by a pit, take a
Koopa Troopa and throw it at the
walls of the pit. It will land
on the lower platform and kill
the Wiggler for you. Next, drop
down onto that ledge and go
right to obtain Star Coin #1.
Wall jump out of that pit and
continue right a bit. Cross the
donut block bridge, collecting
coins along the way. Hit the
regular block ahead to sprout a
beanstalk, then hit the mixed
item box to get what you want
(hopefully).

Climb the beanstalk and go left
to another couple of blocks.
Jump to the left of the
formation to hit a hidden block,
which causes another beanstalk
to grow. Climb it, then jump
from it to reach Star Coin #2 in
the upper corner. Head to the
right from here and stomp on a
Koopa Troopa to get its shell,
then carry it up the hills
ahead. Try not to hit another
enemy with the shell since you
will need it soon.

When you reach the edge, drop
down to the skinny pipes and
throw the shell to the left,
giving you Star Coin #3 in the
process. Now, jump across a
couple more pipes via the
Wigglers. Stomp a bunch of
Paratroopas, including a
vertical formation of them at
the end to get a 1-Up, then go
through the yellow pipe. When
you emerge, go right and jump to
the flagpole to finish up.


Stage 4-A
---------

Starting off here, go right and
jump to the next platform where
you can hit an item block. Then,
jump and swing from the vine to
reach the following platform. Do
this for the next several
platforms, and then you will
come to a wheel-like device in
the water with several ledges
around it. Jump on the side
ledges to move the wheel across
the poisonous water, making sure
to jump to avoid dying. You'll
have to use those wheels to get
across the next several
stretches of water, so you will
have lots of practice using
them.

After the level's midpoint, use
the wheel and jump from the
Paratroopa to reach the upper
ledge. Move to the right with
the next wheel, then jump onto
the Paratroopas to reach Star
Coin #1 in the air. Continue to
the dry platform on the right,
and bounce from the green
Paratroopa to a vine high above.
Swing from it to reach the pipe
to the right.

In the room the pipe leads you
to, jump on the blocks to reach
the top of the structure and go
right. Step on the P switch to
turn the blocks into coins. Kick
the shells around to get lots of
points and even an extra life or
so. Also, make sure to collect
Star Coin #2 in the middle of
the room. Go down the pipe at
the right side to exit here.

When you land, go right and jump
onto the pipes when the Piranha
Plants go back inside. Up ahead
you will see 3 pipes with 3
Piranha Plants inside them; wait
for them to go down, then jump
over and go down the lowest
pipe. In the room below, wall
jump to get Star Coin #3. Go
back up through the rightmost
pipe. When you're above ground
again, go right into the exit
pipe. Swing on the vine to reach
the upper platform if you want,
then jump to the flagpole.


Ghost House
-----------

In here, start by jumping to the
upper ledge and hitting the ?
block to get an item. Head to
the right by jumping from
platform to platform while
avoiding the Boos. When you
reach a doorway on the low
ledge, enter that room. Hit the
? switch to make 4 hanging boxes
fall from the ceiling. Hit them
if you want, but make sure to
stand atop one before the timer
goes off, and you will be
whisked away to a new area.

Now that you are on top of the
previous room, go right and jump
onto the upper ledges to find
Star Coin #1. Jump into the cup
platform to spin around the
wall. Jump out at the other side
and you will be faced with a
giant Boo. When you face away,
it will get smaller, but if you
are facing it, it'll suck in air
and become larger. You can't
kill it, so your best bet is to
keep it small while staying far
enough away.

At any rate, head right and jump
up the ledges to the top area.
Go left to a ! switch and hit it
to make red blocks appear. Jump
across the red ledges to the
door, then enter that room. In
there, go left and pound the !
switch again. The first thing
you should do here is wall jump
between the red walls above,
then jump from the platform you
land on to get Star Coin #2.

Drop back down to the lower area
by falling into a hole on the
left side. Then, hit the switch
again and go right. Jump from
the regular ledge onto the red
platform, then go into the pipe.

NOTE: If you are Mini Mario,
wall jump from the side of the
pipe to a high
 ledge in the upper-right corner
 Star Coin #3. Go through the do
 the secret exit leading to the 

When you emerge from the pipe
(assuming you didn't take the
secret exit), go left and jump
up the ledges to the top area,
then go right to the door. Go
through the door to reach the
flagpole.


Stage 4-5
---------

In the first area, go forward
and through the pipe to reach
the underground segment. Down
here, go right and you will see
a Bob-omb walking around in a
block formation above; hit the
blocks below it to stop the
bomb, causing those cracked blue
blocks to be destroyed (this
will apply everywhere in this
level, so keep an eye out for
the rugged-looking blocks). Go
right some more to some steps,
then jump on a Bob-omb to clear
the way onward.

Continue to the right by jumping
from platform to platform, and
you will soon reach the
midpoint. Pass that and you will
see a couple of Bob-ombs walking
along. You will also see one in
a small room below you. Ground
pound through the blocks to
reach it, then place the bomb
next to the cracked blocks to
the left, so you can grab Star
Coin #1.

Go right across a drawbridge,
making sure to jump to avoid
falling into the pit. When you
reach the second drawbridge,
stand towards the middle so you
move upward as the bridge goes
up. You will see a Bob-omb
walking on the platform above
you; wait for it to reach the
middle area, then hit the block
below it to destroy those
blocks. Then, when the bridge
goes up, jump onto the now-
accessible ledge to reach Star
Coin #2.

Further ahead in the level, you
will come across an upside-down
pipe with Bob-ombs falling from
it onto the drawbridge below.
Jump on a Bob-omb when it comes
down, then drop through the
opening when the bridge goes up
and leave the bomb there to
clear the blocks covering the
pipe. Then, go down the pipe
into a new room. Use the Bob-
ombs in here to reach Star Coin
#3 in the middle of the block
formation, then go up the pipe
on the right side of the room.

When you emerge, go right and
into the pipe to get back above
ground. Once there, go up the
steps and leap to the flagpole
to complete the stage.


Stage 4-6
---------

In this area, start by heading
to the right and stomping the
enemies you see. When you reach
Nessie, jump onto her head and
begin the ride across the
poisonous waters. When Nessie's
head goes down, do not worry, as
you will not touch the water as
long as you are somewhere on
Nessie. Jump in the air to
collect coins along the way.
When you reach the Red Ring,
ignore it and jump to the dry
ledge so you can collect Star
Coin #1.

Hop back onto Nessie and
continue to ride until you reach
the platform with Piranha Plants
hanging from the pipes above.
Cross this platform and drop
onto Nessie at the other end,
then continue right. When you
reach the next ledge, jump onto
it and hit the P switch to make
the blocks ahead turn into
coins. Drop onto Nessie and jump
in the air to collect those
coins, but make sure you jump
onto the ledge and collect Star
Coin #2 as you pass.

The next part of the ride with
Nessie will send you through
Piranha Plant territory. Squat
down on Nessie's body to avoid
the plants, then when you reach
the Paratroopas, stomp on the
lower one to avoid getting hit.
When you pass the final pipe,
jump onto Nessie's head and look
up to see the ! switch on the
ceiling. When Nessie raises her
head, quickly dash and jump to
hit the switch, then hop onto
the red blocks that appear to
enter the pipe.

In the new room, go right and
slide down the hill, defeating
several Goombas on the way. At
the bottom, run and jump to
collect some coins, as well as
Star Coin #3. Continue right and
hit the block at the end to get
a 1-Up, then go down the pipe.
When you land in the main area,
go right and defeat the Koopa
Troopa and Goombas, then head
through the final pipe. When you
pop up, go right and you will
reach the flagpole to exit.


Castle
------

For the first part of this
stage, you will have to jump
between swinging platforms to
avoid the lava below. When you
reach the third platform, hit
the Dry Bones and wait for the
platform to swing to the right.
At its peak, run and jump to a
high ledge to the right, where
you will find Star Coin #1. Drop
to the lower ledge and continue
right past the Thwomps (you can
make it past them in one pass if
you run without stopping).

When you reach the giant Thwomp,
you will see 3 rows of cracked
blocks below it. Trigger the
Thwomp to fall, breaking a row
of blocks each time. When all of
the blocks are clear, drop down
when it's safe to grab Star Coin
#2. As the giant Thwomp rises,
hop back out and continue to the
right. Drop down some steps and
stomp on a couple of Dry Bones,
being careful of some more
Thwomps ahead.

Keep going to the right past the
midpoint, and you will reach the
swinging platforms above the
lava again. Jump onto the first
one, then wait until it is far
to the left or right. At that
point, drop to the small ledge
below to collect Star Coin #3.
Jump across the next several
swinging platforms, stomping the
Dry Bones you encounter along
the way. Fireballs can jump out
of the lava, so watch out for
those as well.

When you reach the end of the
swinging platforms, go into the
boss door and head right. You
will reach a room with a ?
switch on the floor, and a
Goomba will walk in. It will
suddenly become giant-sized, and
the battle will commence. As you
can obviously see, jumping on it
normally will not be effective.
If you have trouble getting over
the boss, hit the ? switch to
make elevating platforms
temporarily appear at the sides.
If you get above the Mega
Goomba, ground pound it to cause
damage. The boss will get faster
with each hit, but that
shouldn't be a concern.

After you ground pound the boss
three times, the battle will
end. So, pick up the golden key
and head on out to World 5!


=======
World 5
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle P:
Pipe W: Warp Zone Cannon GH:
Ghost House GT: Green Toad House
IT: Item Toad House MT: Mega
Toad House X: Path
Intersections/Empty Spots *:
Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

  /--- 2 ---\     P1 --- 3 -----
  |     *    |            |     
  |     *    |            |     
S -- 1 -- X    P1    X --- T ---
  |vx5       |     |vx5   |vx5  
  |          |     |      |     
  \--- A ---/      \-IT   \--- B


Stage 5-1
---------

Starting off in this icy world,
wait for the snowball-throwing
enemy above you to clear the
Goombas, then head right. Make
your way through the area,
defeating enemies and avoiding
falling snow, as well as snowy
patches on the ground (your
movement will be greatly
hindered in the snow). When you
reach a tall tree in the
background with Star Coin #1
floating above it, jump onto the
block ahead of it, then jump to
the left to claim the coin.

Further ahead, you will see Star
Coin #2 in the air above you.
Jump from the Paratroopa's back
to reach it, or wait for the
winged block to appear (hit the
block, then jump onto it to
reach). Keep going to the right
from here and defeat another
snowball thrower on the way.
When you reach a high cliff with
a snowball thrower on its edge,
hit the yellow block a few times
to make 4 blocks appear, forming
a wall. Then, jump onto the
stack to be able to reach Star
Coin #3 above you.

From here, go right and defeat
more snow-throwing enemies while
avoiding the falling snow from
the trees, which can get rather
annoying fast. Up ahead is the
flagpole, and then the level
will be over.


Stage 5-2
---------

Here, go directly right and into
the pipe to reach an underground
area. Below you will see there
are plenty of single-spiked
Spiny enemies to be faced, as
well as swooping blue bats. When
you land, go right along the icy
path, but be careful not to
slide off the ledge to your
death. Hop to the next ledge and
hit the block to get an item,
then continue right. Defeat a
series of bats as you go up the
icy hill, then get past a couple
of Piranha Plants ahead. If you
are Super Mario, you can break
the blocks overhead to gain
access to Star Coin #1.

Onward to the right, you will
see yellow and red pipes above
you. Pass them for now and you
will reach a springboard on a
ledge. Use it to reach Star Coin
#3 directly above you (yes, the
third one). Then, pick up the
springboard and jump across the
left pit with it. Use it to
bounce into the yellow pipe
above you.

In that outside area, chase the
bandit enemy to the right, then
when you reach the end, bounce
on its head to reach Star Coin
#2. Go down the green pipe to
head back underground at the
end. Head right along the icy
floors, while avoiding the
Spinys and swooping bats. You
will reach a large block
formation up ahead that you can
break through if you want.

NOTE: If you want to reach the
secret exit to the pipe, you
need to be Super
 Mario or better here. Break thr
 platform that the Spiny enemies
 Plant goes back into the pipe, 
 right to the secret flagpole.

If you didn't take the secret
exit, continue right across a
couple of icy platforms. At the
very end, go through the upside-
down pipe. Once outside, jump up
the traditional steps and leap
to the flagpole to exit.


Stage 5-A
---------

Head to the right here, and jump
across the expanding and
contracting mushroom platforms
(keep in mind that the larger
platforms will extend wider, but
will retract the same distance,
so be quick in jumping across
them; if you want to be safe,
stand on the middle of any of
these platforms). After several
of these platforms, you'll reach
a Red Ring in the air. Hop
across the next several mushroom
platforms, then hit the block on
the ledge to receive an item.

Pass the midpoint, then hop onto
the upper mushroom platform.
When it expands, jump downward
to the lower one as it expands.
Then, go right when it expands
again to get Star Coin #1. Hit
the ! switch on the ceiling to
make red blocks appear to the
left; when the current platform
expands, go left and jump across
the blocks to get back onto the
safe ledge.

From here, head to the right
some more via the upper path. At
the next set of platforms, run
and jump to hit the lone block,
and a beanstalk will grow. Climb
it to reach a hidden cloud area.
Hit the P switch, then use the
spin block to launch into the
air. At the apex of your jump,
land on the blocks up there
before they turn back into
coins, and jump to reach Star
Coin #2. When you're done up
here, drop down to the main area
again.

After you land, head to the
right and you will reach some
mushroom platforms with a line
of coins that will appear when
you run past their outlines.
When the platforms retract, drop
to the one below to nab Star
Coin #3. Then, jump to the right
and touch the flagpole to
complete the stage.


Tower
-----

This particular tower stage is
very straightforward, as you are
on a single screen that scrolls
upward. Along the way, you will
have to deal with spiked balls
moving back and forth before
rolling off your platform
altogether. They will clear the
Dry Bones in the way, but you
need to jump over the balls to
avoid getting hit. If you don't
touch any of the Dry Bones, the
spiked balls will clear them on
their own.

On the way up, hop along the
thin ledges and hit blocks to
get coins and items. You will
also see Star Coins #1 and #2 in
plain sight on the way up. Soon
after, you will have to deal
with 2 spiked balls at once (try
wall jumping to avoid getting
hit by them), and then a giant
spiked ball will bust through
the wall. When that appears, hop
along the ledges and stay to the
right side of the room. Grab
Star Coin #3 on a block ledge,
then stay to the right when you
reach the center wall which will
divide the area.

Continue evading the giant
spiked ball and it will
eventually roll away, leaving
you to progress to the top in
peace. Once there, go through
the door to meet Bowser Jr. yet
again. The fight plan here is
the same as the previous
battles: Bowser Jr. will run
back and forth, jumping every
now and then, without any added
tricks. All you have to do is
jump on him three times to win.
The icy platform that you CAN
fall from will make it annoying
enough, so be warned.


Stage 5-3
---------

In this stage, you will spend a
great deal of time sliding down
icy hills. Begin by hitting the
nearby block to get an item,
then slide down the first
several hills, knocking out the
enemies along the way. When you
start going uphill and reaching
plateaus, jump to the upper
ledge to the right. Defeat the
Koopa Troopa there and jump to
grab Star Coin #1, then drop
down and continue right along
the hills. (If you are Mini
Mario, you can drop into the pit
directly below to find a skinny
pipe. Go down it and hit the
block to get a Starman, then
move around the room to make
coins appear as long as you have
star power. It's an optional
room, but a fun bonus
nonetheless.)

When you pass the midpoint, you
will reach another steep
downhill portion. Follow the
hill all the way down and head
right, sliding under the low
walls. At the other side, break
the blocks to get Star Coin #2.
Get through the shell-headed
enemies ahead, then wall jump
when you see the coins above you
to reach Star Coin #3.

Next, defeat the Koopa Troopa
and continue to the upper-right
ledge. Go down the hill ahead
and jump at the bottom to reach
the flagpole, ending this stage.


Stage 5-B
---------

In this stage, run to the right,
defeating the enemies and
avoiding the shelled ones when
you come across them. Ahead you
will see some hills, and Star
Coin #1 beneath an overhang. To
reach it, walk down the hill to
the right of it and jump to
collect the coin.

Continue to the right and you
will see a row of Koopa Troopas
on ledges below you, as you
cross overhead. At the other
end, jump to the upper ledge,
then back to the left ledge
where you will find a P switch.
Hit it, then run to the left
(jump over the larger gaps) to
reach Star Coin #2. Go back to
the right, and continue up a
couple of hills. When you reach
a downhill portion, go down it
and avoid the shelled enemy to
reach Star Coin #3.

With all 3 coins now, take the
upper path to the right. Defeat
the Paratroopa and wall jump to
the upper ledge at the far
right. If you want to reach the
secret exit here, wall jump into
the opening in the ceiling just
before the final platform, and
head left. As Shell Mario, break
through the low blocks and go
through the pipe. When you
emerge, go right to the secret
flagpole. If you aren't here for
the secret exit however, simply
continue right to the regular
flagpole.


Stage 5-C
---------

Starting off here, go down the
pipe in front of you to go
underground. Head right when you
land, and you will soon see the
ghost boxer enemy below, who can
punch through blocks. Pass over
it and hit the ? block to get an
item, then hop over the pit and
continue until you reach a
roadblock. Wait for the boxer to
punch through the blocks,
allowing you access, but do not
kill it yet. Let it pass you,
then head to the right of it.
That will cause the enemy to
turn around and punch the blocks
to the right away, giving you
access to Star Coin #1.

Continue to the right, stomping
the Shelled Beetles you come
across. When you reach the
constant stream of platforms
moving up and down, jump across
to the down-moving ones and land
on the lower ledge to the right.
Stomp on the Shelled Beetle when
it falls from the ceiling, then
go right and toss it into the
pit to retrieve Star Coin #2.

Go back left and jump to the
upper ledge, then continue to
the right. You will see a ledge
comprised of 4 blocks in the
air, with a row of blocks above
that. Jump up the steps,
avoiding the boxer enemy, then
jump onto that ledge. Break the
blocks above it (you need to be
at least Super Mario for this
part), then hit the rightmost
block on the ledge to sprout a
beanstalk. Climb it to reach a
secret room.

In the snowy area above, go
right and you will reach a P
switch. Hit it to make the coins
and blocks switch forms, then go
down to the boxer enemy. Lure it
to the left before time is up,
and let the enemy break the
solid blocks at the end. After
it falls, drop into the newly
opened compartment to claim Star
Coin #3. Now, go right and drop
through the coin-filled opening
to some steps below. Then, jump
to the flagpole ahead to end
this stage.


Ghost House
-----------

In this ghost house, head up the
steps until you reach the first
dead end. Stand on the lower
ledge and wait for the boxer
enemy to break through the
blocks on the upper ledge. After
it does that, wait for it to
turn around before jumping to
the upper ledge, allowing the
enemy to clear the blocks on the
lower one. When that's done,
defeat the enemy and go right
along the lower path. Wall jump
at the end to reach Star Coin #1
on a high ledge.

Head back to the left and
continue up the steps. At the
top, go left and up a larger set
of stairs. When the boxing enemy
comes down the steps after you,
bounce on its head to reach the
door on the upper-left ledge,
and enter it. Be quick since as
soon as the door shuts behind
you, all the boxer enemies will
start cutting through the blocks
on their respective ledges. Wall
jump to the top area to grab
Star Coin #2, then stomp the
enemy on the top ledge and wait
for the area below to become
safe. Then, drop back down and
exit the room.

Head up the steps and go left at
the top, and you will reach a
ledge made of 3 blocks. Jump
onto it, then hop around to
reveal 3 more hidden blocks.
Jump onto the middle hidden
block, then squat down and jump
to reveal a lower block which
will sprout a beanstalk (you
need to squat down, or be
regular Mario to trigger it).
Please note that if you want to
reach the normal exit, missing a
coin in the process, ignore the
stalk and continue right up the
stairs. Then, ride the moving
platform upward to the top, and
go through the door to reach the
end.

Now, if you want to reach the
secret exit, climb up the
beanstalk and wait for the
boxing enemy on the ledge to cut
through the blocks. When it
falls, drop onto the ledge and
enter the room there. Defeat the
two enemies and ride the moving
platform as it goes upward. Be
careful since it will start to
tilt sharply on both sides
before reverting back to normal.

Collect the coins on the way up,
and wait for the platform to
freefall. Once it stops, stay
against the right wall and hold
Right on the Control Pad. When
you start to rise, keep moving
to the right and you will drop
onto a ledge on the way up (this
is the only way to reach it,
otherwise you'll miss it). If
you make it onto the ledge, go
right and collect Star Coin #3.

After you get the coin, hit the
nearby block to make another
beanstalk grow. Climb it to the
top, then jump through the ledge
and head through the door to the
left. Outside, go right and jump
to the secret flagpole, which
will lead you to the Cannon.


Stage 5-4
---------

Here in this automatically-
scrolling stage, there will be
mushroom platforms that move up
or down when you stand on them.
The darker ones will move up,
and the lighter ones will sink,
so remember this as you progress
through the stage. There will
also be a slow but steady stream
of Bullet Bills being shot at
you from the right side, so be
prepared to crush them if they
come near.

Go through the Red Ring up
ahead, but be careful of the
Bullet Bills as you collect the
coins. When you reach the last
mushroom platform, hop on it to
keep it from sinking, then dash
jump to the upper-right ledge.
If you get up there, go right to
collect Star Coin #1. If you
have a Mini Mushroom, use it
here to pass under the low wall
to reach Star Coin #2. If not,
you have to stand on the donut
block and take the lower path to
avoid being crushed
(alternatively, if you're quick
enough, go all the way right and
up the rising mushroom, then go
left to collect the second
coin).

Anyway, continue through the
stage and you will reach a
rising mushroom platform. If you
hop along that platform, it will
stay down, allowing you to grab
Star Coin #3 on the middle
ledge. Drop to the ground from
there, and continue right,
hopping across several more
mushroom platforms. At the end,
jump from the final platform to
the flagpole to finish the
stage.


Castle
------

Here, head to the right across a
bunch of fast-moving conveyor
belts, evading the Piranha
Plants and Dry Bones along the
way. You will reach two conveyor
belts and a ledge below them
with Star Coin #1 on it; run to
the right on the lower belt to
reach the ledge and the coin,
then quickly jump to the right
to avoid the plant that will
fall on you.

Hop across a bunch of regular
platforms with Dry Bones on
them, then hit the blocks on the
last one to get an item. The
next part of the stage will put
you against fireball-spitting
Piranha Plants on the conveyor
belts. Avoid then like you would
the regular versions (if you are
Fire Mario, it would greatly
help here). Go right and you
will notice a high ledge above
you. Jump onto the next belt and
bounce on the springboard when
it approaches you to reach that
ledge, claiming Star Coin #2 in
the process.

Jump back down to the conveyor
belts and keep moving to the
right through this castle. Hit
the mixed item box, and
hopefully you will get the Fire
Flower or Starman, as both will
help immensely. Up ahead there
will be more Piranha Plants, as
well as a giant-sized one which
can take a few hits. When you
are on solid ground, go right
and you will see a lone block in
the air, and a gap in the
ceiling above it.

Go right to the upper ledge and
stomp the Dry Bones, then get a
running start on the ice and
jump to the ? block in the air
to the left (this may take a few
tries to get right). When you
successfully land on the block,
wall jump through the gap in the
ceiling and run all the way
right atop the ceiling. When you
reach the far right, drop to the
lower ledge and go left on the
conveyor belt to find Star Coin
#3. An alternate method would be
to carry the springboard from
earlier to the lone ? block,
then bounce onto the block and
wall jump through the ceiling
hole, and run to the right.

Run back across the belt and hit
the block to get an item, then
jump to the ledge above and
enter the boss room. There, you
will meet Petey Piranha for a
boss fight. The giant plant will
hover in the air and move back
and forth before crashing into
the ground in an attempt to hit
you. The impact will cause Petey
to temporarily become dizzy.
This is when you should jump on
the head to cause damage. Petey
will also bounce around the room
before hovering, so keep your
distance and run underneath when
he passes overhead.

After you hit the boss 3 times,
the battle will end. So, grab
the golden key and head onward
to World 6. Just like in World
2, if you were to beat this boss
as Mini Mario, you will fall
into the gap in the floor in the
following room. Then, when you
run to the right, the sign will
be flipped, allowing you access
to World 7 instead. You will
have to beat the boss in both
forms to reach both worlds
(unless you used the Cannons in
earlier worlds).


=======
World 6
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle W:
Warp Zone Cannon GT: Green Toad
House IT: Item Toad House MT:
Mega Toad House X: Path
Intersections/Empty Spots *:
Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

 1 ---------\     GT          MT
 |           |     |           |
 |           |     |^x5        |
S --- X    IT     X --- 2 ---T1 
   vx5|     |     |             
 |     |     |                  
 \--- A ---/                    



Stage 6-1
---------

The opening stage of this cliff-
oriented world will be littered
with Bullet Bill shooters, so be
prepared for many projectiles
floating around. Head to the
right and you will partake in a
new feature of this game: being
able to shimmy alongside the
cliff when crossing certain
areas. You can press Down to
hang from the ledge, which is
good for collecting coins and
dodging bullets above. Keep in
mind you can also jump when
shimmying across.

With that said, continue to the
right until you reach an upper
ledge you can jump to. Wall jump
from there to reach Star Coin #1
overhead. Then, take the lower
path and continue to the right
(if you want, wall jump upward
when you get the chance to reach
some coins and an item box). Up
ahead, wall jump up the ledges,
then leap to the left ledge to
find Star Coin #2.

Hit the ? block to get another
item, then continue onward. Wall
jump while avoiding the
Paratroopa to reach the upper
ledge. Shimmy along the cliff
ahead, while jumping and hanging
to dodge or defeat the
Paratroopas. When you reach the
tall stack of Bullet Bill
cannons, drop to the very bottom
area and head right.

When you reach the second
shimmying section, hang from the
cliff to grab Star Coin #3 below
you. Then, continue to the right
and you will spot the flagpole.
If you wait for a bunch of
Bullet Bills to be on the screen
before tagging the pole, you can
get lots of points as well!


Stage 6-A
---------

Here in this sandy stage, you
will have to deal with Lakitu
flying overhead once again. Hit
the first block you encounter to
get an item, then continue right
while avoiding the Spiny enemies
that Lakitu rains on you. You
will come across a giant
whirlwind up ahead; jump into it
and it'll send you flying in the
air. Glide to the right and you
will reach Star Coin #1.

Drop to the ground and head
right through various block
formations, ground pounding them
to collect the coins below if
you want. Up ahead, you will see
a column of quicksand between
two solid blocks. Sink into that
column to enter a hidden room.
Down there, wall jump to reach
Star Coin #2 on the way down. At
the bottom, go right and up the
other side, while jumping to
avoid the Spiny enemies. Then,
go through the pipe at the top
to get back outside.

Out here, go right and you will
notice that there are now
multiple Lakitus in the air to
torment you. Continue right and
you will reach an alcove that
can only be reached by treading
through the quicksand, but the
lone block there contains a
Starman, which may be helpful.
Further ahead you will spot a
bunch of pipes. Submerge into
the middle yellow one to enter
the room below.

There, go left and you will see
a giant Piranha Plant. If you
are Fire Mario, destroy it with
some fireballs and jump to claim
Star Coin #3. If you are daring,
you can try jumping over it if
you can afford to sacrifice.
Despite your actual method, exit
through the red pipe to the
left. Once outside again,
continue right across some more
platforms until you reach the
final pipe. Go through it and
head right to the flagpole, thus
ending the stage.


Stage 6-2
---------

Out here, head to the right
across the Spiny-filled
platforms, hitting blocks and
collecting coins along the way.
You will notice that the tide
will cause the water to rise and
fall every now and then.
Continue right to the red pipe,
then go through to reach the
second part of the stage.

In this area, go right and you
will see a palm tree. Wait for
the tide to rise, then jump
directly above the tree to
reveal a hidden block which will
sprout a beanstalk. Climb it to
reach a high cloud ledge. Hit
the block to reveal a P switch
(use the first winged block to
reach it). Hit the switch, then
jump across the winged blocks to
the right. On the last platform,
grab Star Coin #1 before the
blocks disappear, then drop down
and continue right like you have
been.

Head all the way right until you
reach the pipes. Jump into the
second green pipe to launch over
the wall to the right (the first
pipe leads to a bonus room in
the clouds with lots of winged
boxes). After you land at the
other side of the wall, go right
past the underhang and wait for
the tide to rise. When it does,
swim upward to grab Star Coin
#2.

Continue to the right and use
the next pipe to get over the
wall ahead. Go right and drop
into an opening where you will
find a mixed item box. Hit it if
you want, otherwise keep going
to the right across a long
platform filled with Spinys.
When you drop off the far end of
that platform, run back to the
left and collect Star Coin #3.

From here, head right and up a
hill, jumping over the Spinys
along the way. At the top, go
into the pipe to reach the final
area. There, head right and jump
onto the platforms, then leap to
the flagpole at the end.


Tower #1
--------

In here, jump up the platforms
as you make your way upward, but
be careful of the giant spiked
walls that will jut out from the
sides. When the coast is clear,
jump up to the next platform,
and so on. Once you pass the
first three of them, go left and
jump to the ledge above you.
Wait for the next spiked wall to
shoot out and move back right,
then run onto that ledge to grab
Star Coin #1. Duck into the
small opening until the spiked
wall retreats again, then
continue upward.

For the next part, go right and
hop up a few ledges, then wait
for the spiked walls above to
retract. At that point, bounce
on the springboard to reach the
upper ledges. Once you make it
to the top, go into the door
leading to a new room. In there,
wait for it to be safe above
you, then jump up the ledges to
the very top. Wait for the
spiked walls to come out and
then retract before dropping
down to collect Star Coin #2.
Once you have it, jump to the
top and go through the door.

When you reappear, jump to the
upper ledge and stomp the Dry
Bones. To reach the higher
ledge, you will need to wall
jump as Mini Mario to gain the
leverage needed to reach it (you
can also bounce off the Dry
Bones and wall jump as regular
Mario, and succeed). If you get
up there, go up the pipe to a
well-covered room in terms of
those spiked walls. When it's
safe, quickly jump to grab Star
Coin #3 and drop back to the
door to avoid dying (if you duck
on the middle platform, you will
be safe as well). Exit the room
and go down to the boss door.

In here, you will meet up with
Bowser Jr. yet again. This time,
the battle takes place atop a
tilting platform which is above
a bed of spikes (you can fall
off the platform and into them,
so be careful). Bowser Jr. has
no tricks here either, so all
you have to do is stomp him
three times (wait for him to
emerge from the shell after each
hit) and the battle will end.


Stage 6-3
---------

When you enter this stage, you
will notice a new feature: red ?
blocks with spikes on one side.
Be careful not to hit the spikes
on them, though. Anyway, head
right and avoid a couple Piranha
Plants, and you will see a block
swinging from a rope above. hit
the block to stop it, then jump
from it to obtain Star Coin #1
in the air. Continue right and
go down the red pipe to reach an
underground room.

Down here, go right across the
cylinder platforms that roll
when you move (jump to avoid
falling into the poisonous
water). Jump through the Red
Ring halfway through and collect
the coins, then go up the pipe
at the end. You will emerge in a
pipe maze of sorts, with several
Piranha Plants popping out of
them. Go down the second green
pipe and collect Star Coin #2
below, then exit the same way
you came in.

Next, go down the very last pipe
to the right. Run across the
rolling platforms and the pipes
when the Piranha Plants aren't
out, to avoid getting hit
needlessly. At the other end, go
up the pipe to exit this room.
Back outside, hit the red block,
then dash jump to the left, over
the green pipe wall. Collect
Star Coin #3 in the middle area,
then wall jump back over to the
right side.

Chase the bandit to the right
while hopping between platforms.
Up ahead, hop across some blocks
and avoid the Piranha Plants in
the pipes. Then, jump to the
flagpole ahead to exit.


Stage 6-4
---------

Here, start by going right and
passing under the fire sticks
when it's safe. Wall jump to the
upper ledges to find Star Coin
#1, then continue to the right.
It will take some fancy footwork
to shimmy along the cliffs
ahead, all while avoiding the
rotating fire sticks. When you
pass that part, continue onto a
ledge and go right to a !
switch.

Hit the switch, then go left and
jump onto the red blocks. Wall
jump from them to reach the
ledge above, then go right and
wall jump some more when it's
safe. Jump to the ledges on the
left side to reach Star Coin #2.
From there, continue right and
enter the red pipe. In the next
area, drop down to begin
shimmying along the cliff. Head
to the right, jumping from ledge
to ledge along the way.

You will reach a section with
many ledges to stand on. Make
your way up them to the top,
then go right into a green pipe.
Shimmy to the right, jumping to
avoid the fire sticks along the
way, then collect Star Coin #3
at the other end. Then, jump to
the lower ledge and head back to
the left, and through the yellow
pipe. When you land, go left and
up the green upside-down pipe,
then jump to the flagpole to end
this stage.


Tower #2
--------

In here, go right and make your
way upward by jumping on the
fast-moving conveyor belts.
There are spikes along the sides
of the tower, so be careful not
to slip on the belts and hit
them. You will come to a long
belt with a couple of small
spikes along it; jump to the
right on that belt to reach Star
Coin #1 against the wall.

Quickly run to the left and jump
up to avoid the spikes, then go
up and across some more ledges
to the far left side. After you
trigger the midpoint, make your
way up the next set of belts,
stomping the Dry Bones (and
ground pounding the giant ones)
along the way up. When you reach
the pipes, go down the right one
to be shot upward to the next
platform.

Land on the lower regular ledge,
and wait for all the spiked
beetles to crawl to the left.
Then, squat down and ride the
conveyor belt to the left. Jump
up to break the blocks towards
the end, and claim Star Coin #2
in the process. Jump out and
continue upward along the
conveyor belts. Go up the steps
and you will reach a point where
you can jump to a rope hanging
above.

Jump to the rope and climb to
the right while hanging to reach
Star Coin #3. After that, you
can either drop to the belt
below and grab the coins, or go
back left and drop down the
pipe. Regardless of the way you
take, you will make it to the
final ledge at the top. Up
there, go through the door to
meet up with Bowser Jr. yet
again.

The fight with Bowser Jr. here
is just like the previous one,
but the one difference this time
is the way you can attack him.
You will not be able to land
direct hits, so keep your
distance and avoid contact, all
while staying on the tilting
platform. When Bowser Jr. throws
a green shell at you, jump on
it, then pick it up and throw it
right back at him. This will
stun him, so now is your chance
to jump on Bowser Jr's belly to
cause damage. Do this three
times to win the fight here.


Stage 6-5
---------

Here, go right and down the pipe
to enter another underwater
level. Below, swim to the right
while avoiding contact with the
fish. The green ones will try to
swim directly at you if you get
close, so be careful. Head to
the right and stay towards the
top half of the screen. Grab
Star Coin #1, but be ready to
swim away from the green Cheep
Cheeps ahead of you.

Continue to the right and hit
the lone ? block you see to get
a Starman (the next several
blocks will also yield Starmen
if the power is still active
when you hit them). Swim to the
right, hitting the blocks to
renew your star power, then when
you reach a yellow pipe in an
alcove above, swim around and go
up the pipe. In that coin room
littered with green Cheep
Cheeps, swim to the middle and
collect Star Coin #2.

Exit the coin room when you are
done, and keep going to the
right. Be extremely careful of
the whirlwinds in the water, as
they can suck you in, causing
you to lose a life. Swim quickly
to avoid getting sucked in,
though. Head to the right and
you will find a whirlwind
surrounded by blocks at its
base. Let that one suck you in
and you will enter a hidden room
below. Down there, swim around
to get Star Coin #3, then exit
via the pipe.

From where you emerge, simply
avoid the giant Cheep Cheeps,
then go up the next pipe to
reach dry land. Up there, jump
across the platforms that drop
when you step on them, then leap
to the flagpole.


Stage 6-B
---------

Start here by going right and
dropping into the rightmost pipe
to launch upward. At the peak of
your shot, go right and land on
the ledge. Head right and swing
from the pole to reach the next
ledge. Jump onto the next pole
as it moves along its track,
then swing to the following
ledge and defeat the enemies
there. When you reach the hill,
jump on the Koopa Troopa and
grab its shell, then go down the
hill (avoid the Goomba) and
throw the shell right to receive
Star Coin #1.

Go back up and jump from the
Paratroopa to reach the pole in
the air, then swing and jump to
the next platform. Go right and
hit the blocks to get an item
and a coin. Jump across the
tilting mushroom platforms
ahead, then go down the pipe to
the far right, and you will be
launched upward. At the peak,
bounce from the Paratroopa to
obtain Star Coin #2 in the air.
Get launched by the pipe again,
then land on the right ledge
this time.

Go right and jump over a couple
of Piranha Plants, then slide
down the hill. Drop down along
several tilting mushroom
platforms on the way, then go
right some more. Take the upper
path and hit the mixed item box,
and hopefully you will get
something good. Up ahead you
will see three pipes; go down
the left one as it will be the
most profitable one.

When you land, go right and jump
to the first rotating pole.
Swing from it and jump to reach
the second one, then keep
swinging on that one. When you
reach the upper-right part of
its track, jump to the right
ledge and slide under the wall
to grab Star Coin #3. The blocks
in front of you will break, so
go down the steps ahead.

Up ahead, slide down the hill
and jump at the bottom, then hop
across the tops of a few pipes
(if you are regular Mario, you
can run along the ground to get
coins). At the far end, go right
and jump to the flagpole to
finish this stage.


Stage 6-6
---------

From the start, go right and
launch from the Spin Block,
hitting the ? block above to get
an item. Launch a second time
and glide to the right, totally
clearing the Chain Chomp on the
ledge. Launch from the second
Spin Block, and land on the
upper-right ledge (if you want,
drill through the blocks to the
right and nab another item at
the bottom). Up there, jump onto
the next Spin Block and glide to
the left. Bounce off one of the
red Paratroopas to reach the
left ledge where the next Spin
Block is located.

Launch from the next Spin Block
and drill through the column of
blocks to the left. At the
bottom, hit the P switch to turn
the remaining blocks into coins.
With that done, jump to the left
ledge and collect Star Coin #1.
Get back onto that Spin Block
and launch/glide to the upper-
right ledges. Jump across them
and launch once more to the
upper-left ledge. There, jump
over the Chain Chomp and collect
Star Coin #2 from atop its
wooden stake (ground pound it to
get 3 coins if you want).

Go right and jump to the other
ledges, then continue right and
downward for a bit. Stay to the
right side, dropping downward
one platform at a time. When you
are able to go right again, do
so. You will see a ? block
containing an item, and a tall
column of blocks. Ground pound
through the blocks to access the
Spin Block below, then shoot up
to the ledge above.

Now, wall jump to the right and
hit the upside-down P switch,
then bounce from the Paratroopa
to reach the right ledge (this
works if you are Mini Mario). If
you are not Mini Mario, use that
Spin Block you just opened up
and hold Right to land on that
high ledge before the switch's
timer ends. If you are not
interested or don't need this
coin, take the pipe at the
bottom of this room to the next
part. Alternatively, you can use
the Spin Block right from the
start and bounce off the
Paratroopa's head to hit the P
switch, then hold Right while
still gliding to land on the
high ledge.

Assuming you got onto that upper
ledge, go into the pipe there.
In the secret room, use the Spin
Block and land on the high
ledge, then drop down the right
side of the room. Slide along
the left wall to acquire Star
Coin #3 on the way down. At the
bottom, go down the yellow pipe
to reach the next area. There,
go in the first pipe to be shot
onto the next ledge. Go into the
next several pipes to reach the
very top area.

Once there, jump to the right
and you will find several more
pipes. Depending on which one
you go into, you may reach a
certain spot on the flagpole, or
get shot back to the left where
you just came. If you want the
extra life, go down the third
pipe to reach the flagpole.


Castle
------

Starting off here, head to the
right by jumping on the gray
platforms when they move into
range. When you reach the small
platform with a Koopa Troopa on
it, stomp it to get its shell,
then stand at the right edge of
the platform and throw the shell
to the left, allowing you to get
Star Coin #1 below. Go right by
jumping between platforms a
little more, avoiding the
fireballs jumping from the lava,
and you will see 2 gray
platforms moving back and forth.
Jump onto the top one, then drop
to the lower one so you can grab
Star Coin #2.

From here, continue to the right
and pass through the midpoint on
solid ground. Hit the block up
ahead to get an item, then wall
jump to the upper platform. Go
right and wait for the gray
blocks to come together, then
bounce from the Koopa Troopa
onto the ceiling to the right.
Up there, run all the way right
and collect Star Coin #3 at the
end.

Now that you have all three
coins in here, go back left and
drop to the ledge, then go right
between the gray blocks when
they move apart. Run across the
platform when the gray blocks
move down, so that you don't get
crushed by the spikes above. At
the end, go into the door to
reach the next room.

In here, jump up the gray
ledges, one at a time, as they
stick out of the right wall.
When you reach the top, go into
the boss door to meet this
world's boss. Outside, run to
the right and you will be
confronted by Monty Mole in a
tank. The boss battle will then
commence out here in the
courtyard.

Monty Mole pilots a tank, as you
can see, which shoots Bullet
Bills from its large turret. You
can jump on them to eliminate
them, which is not a problem.
The boss itself will pop its
head out of the top of the tank,
and will toss a Bob-omb in your
direction (jump to avoid it). To
attack this boss, simply jump on
its head when it pokes it out.
When you hit him, the tank will
go haywire, spinning around and
randomly shooting Bullet Bills
in random directions. When it
calms down, a second (and then
third) turret will be added to
the tank. Repeat the same battle
plan again, and hit Monty Mole 3
times to destroy the Monty Tank.

Once you win this fight, run
over to collect the golden key
and you will be done here.
Unless you select otherwise on
the touch screen, you will now
be headed to World 8 (unless of
course you used a Cannon in a
previous world, or beat the
World 5 boss as Mini Mario to
reach World 7).


=======
World 7
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle GH:
Ghost House GT: Green Toad House
IT: Item Toad House MT: Mega
Toad House X: Path
Intersections/Empty Spots *:
Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

 MT          IT    GT           
 |           |     |            
 |^x5        |^x5  |^x5         
S --- 1 ---GH --- 2 --- 3 ------
   *                       *    
   *                       *    
   ****************GT ****      


Stage 7-1
---------

Here, start by going up the
ledges before dropping down to
the platform on a track. As soon
as you step on the platform, it
will begin to move along its
track. Jump to the second
platform when you get to it, and
ride to the right above some
Paratroopas. The trick is to
stay on the platform even when
it appears that it's about to
fall off the track. There is a
hidden segment of track below
that you will ride to the left
on, giving you access to Star
Coin #1 if you wait. Then, take
the platform back to the right
and continue on.

(NOTE: If you want the second
coin, read this paragraph;
otherwise continue along the
platforms as normal to reach the
next part of the stage. You will
need to return to this stage
again to get the coin you
missed.) You will see a winged
block floating overhead; hop
onto it and ride it all the way
to the right. At the end, drop
down to a small ledge and go up
the upside-down pipe. In that
coin-filled room, swing/jump
from the hanging poles to the
top area. Then, jump to grab
Star Coin #2 and exit via the
pipe at the bottom.

When you emerge in the next
area, go right and the midpoint
will trigger. Jump onto the
blocks, then onto the platform
on the upper-right track. Ride
it to the right, stomping the
fire-spitting Chomps in the air,
and jump to collect Star Coin
#3. Then, ride the platform as
it drops below and continue
right at the end. Keep going to
the right, and jump through the
Red Ring if you want, and
continue onward. Hop across some
more platforms and go up the
pipe at the end, then jump to
the flagpole to exit this stage
when you emerge.


Ghost House
-----------

This ghost house can definitely
be tricky, especially if you
don't know what you're doing and
can't move quickly enough. In
the room where you start, hit
the left block to make a ?
switch pop out; hit it and 5
doors will appear around the
middle area. Start by going into
the left door. Jump across the
wobbly floor, bouncing on the
pumpkin enemies if needed, and
you will find Star Coin #1 in
the air. Exit via the door at
the right side of this room.

Go into the top room next.
There, stay to the left side and
ground pound through the yellow
ooze to sink through it. Pound
your way down to get Star Coin
#2, then move to the right and
ground pound to the ? switch.
Hit it, then jump out to reach
the door that appears. Back in
the center room, go into the
bottom-right door (the other two
doors are optional).

In this room, you will see a
whole row of ghostly hands above
you, and they appear to be
moving something back and forth.
Jump below the ones that are
moving and you will reveal a
hidden block with a ? switch on
it. Use the springboard to hit
the switch, then go right and
ride the moving platforms
upward. Then, jump up the ledges
and enter the door to the left.

When you arrive in the next
room, hit the P switch above
you, then run to the right.
Here, you must be quick to jump
across the platforms (try your
best to dodge the Boo on the
second ledge), then hop up the
small steps leading to the
ceiling before the time runs
out. If you do this
successfully, run all the way
right along the ceiling and you
will find Star Coin #3 at the
end. Then, go back left and drop
down to the ground, and enter
the door to the right. Now that
you are outside, simply go right
and the flagpole is there.

NOTE: If you want to reach the
secret exit instead, run left
from the P
 switch and you will find a bloc
 Hit that block to make a beanst
 ledges to reach the stalk befor
 the hidden door at the top of t
 flagpole. This will open up the
provide a shortcut to the Tower.


Stage 7-2
---------

When you enter, jump across the
ledges in the air and go up the
upside-down pipe to reach the
next area. Here, you will see a
large platform with arrows
pointing to the sides and
upward. When you step on it,
it'll begin to move. To change
direction, walk to one of the
sides to tilt slightly,
otherwise it will just move
straight up (this is how you
will progress through this
stage, so get used to it).
Another fun aspect of this stage
is how the sides of the screen
wrap around, so if you go off
the right side, you will
reappear on the left side (this
will also come in handy).

Make your way upward, defeating
Paratroopas along the way. After
you pass through the area with
walls on both sides, get to the
right side and hit the blocks
surrounding Star Coin #1, so you
can collect it. Keep going
upward as that's the only way
you can go, and pass through the
Red Ring for a red coin
challenge if you so desire.
Continue going upward past the
midpoint, and stomp some more
Koopa Troopas.

You will soon come to a ledge on
the right side with 2 blocks on
it and a ? block floating
overhead. Around this point,
stomp a Koopa Troopa and take
its shell upward. You will pass
between platforms with blocks on
them, as well as Star Coin #2 to
the right. To obtain it, throw
the shell to the left and it'll
break the blocks on the right
side, nabbing the coin for you
in the process.

Hit the blocks in the air as you
continue upward, then stay
toward the middle area, since
there will be plenty of
Paratroopas above you. When the
wave of them flies downward,
bounce on their heads to reach
Star Coin #3 to the left. Then,
get back onto your platform and
continue to the upper-right
ledge. Go through the pipe
there, then when you emerge,
bounce on the Paratroopas to
reach the flagpole.


Stage 7-3
---------

From the start, go right and
bounce on the second Wiggler to
hit the ? block for an item.
Then, go down the green pipe to
reach the next area. Here, you
will see a giant Wiggler start
walking to the right. It has
MANY segments, but they do end,
so try not to get too far behind
as you make your way through the
stage. Drop onto its back and
run to the right, while jumping
to collect a ton of coins in the
air.

After you pass the upside-down
pipe which spits out Goombas,
there will be a ledge with a
Boomerang Bro on it. Hit the
block below the Boomerang Bro to
defeat it, then jump onto the
remaining blocks to grab Star
Coin #1. Continue onward while
stomping Goombas and Paratroopas
along the way. Up ahead, there
will be a high ledge you need to
bounce from a Paratroopa to
reach. When you get up there,
you will be able to claim Star
Coin #2.

Head right through the rest of
the area, and when you reach the
end, be careful of the Boomerang
Bro. Go up the upside-down pipe
to reach the final area by the
flagpole. You will notice some
blocks in a step formation below
you. Ground pound the top one to
make a beanstalk grow upside-
down, then ground pound the
lower blocks to gain access to
it (you need to be at least
Super Mario for this). Climb
down the stalk a little bit,
then jump to the right to reach
Star Coin #3.

Now that you have the third
coin, jump back to the beanstalk
and climb upward again. At the
top, go right and jump to the
flagpole to exit this stage.


Tower
-----

In here, go right and jump up
the ledges, then go up the
upside-down pipe while avoiding
the moving spiked walls. In the
second room, go up some more
ledges when the spiked blocks
move up and down. When you reach
the right side of the room, you
will see moving blocks below
you, the top one moving fast
while the bottom is moving slow.
Drop down when the blocks move
to the right and collect Star
Coin #1.

When it's safe, jump back out of
here and continue going upward.
When you reach the three moving
platforms in the air, jump to
the first one and squat down to
avoid the spikes overhead. When
it's safe, jump up to the second
block and wait until it moves to
the right. Squat to avoid the
spikes, then walk to the right
edge and squat down again. When
you move back to the left, jump
onto the top platform and then
onto the upper-right ledge.

Wait for the gray platform above
you to move to the left, then
wall jump upward to the next set
of ledges. Head to the left and
jump up to reach a series of
steps with spikes on the sides
of each. Wait for the steps to
move left, then quickly but
carefully jump up them to the
top. Once there, go up and left
to a door, and enter that room.
In there, hit the blocks to get
an item, then continue on to the
following room.

Jump onto the block above you
when it comes down, and ride it
upward. Then, head across to the
left between the spiked blocks
moving up and down (be careful
of course). At the left side,
jump onto the ledge and then hop
across the gray blocks to reach
the right side, one block at a
time. When you reach the far
right, go up the get Star Coin
#2.

Next, go back to the left side
and hop up the thin ledges.
There will be several large
spiked blocks that will move
around in close proximity. Hop
your way between them when it's
safe, and get to the ledge above
them. When you reach the very
top area, jump to the ledge
where the door is. Before you go
in however, wait for all the
blocks around you to move away,
then jump to reach Star Coin #3
to the left. Now, go into the
room and meet Bowser Jr.

You cannot attack this version
of Bowser Jr. directly, as you
may be used to; you have to wait
for him to throw a green shell
at you, and then you throw it
back at him. After you throw the
shell, jump on Bowser Jr's belly
to cause damage. The platforms
below you will move back and
forth, so things can get
slightly tricky, but it's still
not too hard. As always, 3 hits
will beat Bowser Jr.


Stage 7-4
---------

In this stage, you will have to
make your way all the way
upward, by means of Spin Blocks
and mushroom platforms. Begin by
running all the way right along
the ground. When you reach the
rightmost area, jump onto the
Spin Block there and glide
upward and to the left to grab
Star Coin #1. Land on the
platform below, then use the
Spin Blocks and bounce upward
via the trampoline mushroom
platforms. Glide to the left
when you reach the highest
platform and you will reach Star
Coin #2 as well.

Once you grab the second coin,
go left and use the Spin Blocks
to continue upward. After you
pass the midpoint above,
continue bouncing upward and
using the Spin Blocks to gain
even more height. At the top,
you can bounce from the platform
to reach Star Coin #3, then
glide in the air to collect the
rest of the coins. If you are
high enough as you glide to the
right, you should reach the
upside-down pipe above the
trampoline platform (if not,
then use the Spin Blocks and
bounce/glide your way upward to
try again).

NOTE: If you want to reach the
secret exit, you need to be Mini
Mario. From
 where you get Star Coin #3, use
 block above. Jump into the wall
 ledge, and go up the skinny pip
 secret exit's flagpole. This wi

In the next area, use the Spin
Blocks to make your way upward
to the top of the cliff. If you
want to reach a secret coin
area, break the 3 blocks to the
right, then hit the block at the
bottom of the area to sprout a
beanstalk; climb it and go up a
pipe to reach the bonus coin
area. Either way, at the top,
head right to the flagpole and
this stage will be completed.


Stage 7-5
---------

Here, make your way to the right
across the landscape littered
with Bullet Bill cannons and
Bob-ombs. After you cross the
first pit, jump on the Bob-omb
at the other side. Pick up the
bomb and bounce from a Bullet
Bill to reach the upper ledge to
the right. Have the bomb clear
those blocks, then go right to
receive Star Coin #1.

Continue to the right along a
straight flat path, and you will
see a skinny pipe covered with a
block. Use a Bob-omb to clear
the block, then if you are Mini
Mario or have a Mini Mushroom in
reserve, use it now and go down
that pipe. In the room below,
jump across the platforms to the
right side of the room and hit
the ? block there to get a Mega
Mushroom. Charge to the left
side of the room, and push the
pipe above Star Coin #2 to the
right, so you can drop down and
collect it when the power wears
out.

After you get the second coin,
make your way to the right side
of the room and go up the pipe
to exit the room. Outside again,
make your way to the right some
more, being careful not to get
hit by Bullet Bills. Between two
of the cannons ahead, you will
spot Star Coin #3 in plain
sight, so pick it up while being
careful not to get hit.

Farther ahead to the right, you
will see a pipe covered with
blocks. If you want to reach the
secret exit leading to Stage
7-A, clear the blocks with 2
Bob-ombs, then continue to the
secret flagpole. Here is a
diagram showing where you should
place the Bob-omb (shown with an
X) in both instances to clear
the way to the pipe:

First Bob-omb: Second Bob-omb:

  _ _                           
  _|_|_|_                       
 _ X|_|_|_|_|_ _                
 _ _|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_ _        
|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|_|       
  PIPE                          

If you're not interested in the
secret though, stomp the giant
Bullet Bills being shot from a
huge cannon to the right, and
continue to the flagpole behind
it.


Stage 7-6
---------

In this stage, make your way
through the first part by
jumping across mushroom
platforms and defeating numerous
Paratroopas. When you reach the
large tilting mushroom platform,
bounce off a Paratroopa's head
to reach the upper ledge to the
right. When you pass the
midpoint, you will come to 2
rows of blocks.

NOTE: If you want to get the
first star coin, as well as the
secret exit
 (you'll have to return to this 
 follow these instructions. Brea
 Super Mario), then hit the midd
 beanstalk. Climb it to reach a 
 to the right, and jump to colle
 go up the pipe and head right t
 lead to the hidden Stage 7-7 on

If you don't want the secret
exit (or will return later to
get the first star coin, go
right past the 2 rows of blocks,
then drop down to the lower area
past the wall. Go right and jump
up to grab Star Coin #2 when the
Paratroopas don't present a
danger. Jump up to the top ledge
and continue right, avoiding the
Piranha Plant as it emerges from
the pipes. Go down the yellow
pipe when it is clear to reach a
new area.

There, bounce across the
Paratroopas to reach the red
pipe to the right. Go up it and
you will receive Star Coin #3 as
you emerge. Then, jump up and
avoid the Paratroopas as you
continue onward to the right.
Get past the large block
formation infested with Koopa
Troopas, then go up the hills
and jump from the final
Paratroopa to reach the
flagpole.


Stage 7-A
---------

From the start, go right and
into the pipe to head into a
pipe-filled area. In here, go
right and jump below the
horizontal pipe to reveal 3
hidden blocks. Go left and jump
onto the upper ledge, then go
right into that pipe to get Star
Coin #1. Head back through the
pipe and go through the upside-
down pipe to reach the next
part. Be careful, as Baby
Wigglers may fall out of certain
pipes.

In the room above, head right
and avoid the Piranha Plant, and
go into the rightmost pipe. When
you launch up, collect the coins
on the way up and down. You will
notice a pipe acting as the left
wall; as you fall back down,
slide along the right wall, then
wall jump and go up that pipe.
You will reach a hidden room to
the right, where you can obtain
Star Coin #2. Then, go back
through the pipe and drop to the
area below.

When you land, jump to the upper
blue ledge and then go up the
left pipe. Up there, head to the
right and up a couple ledges to
the yellow platform. From there,
go right and up, being careful
to avoid the Piranha Plant, then
jump across the pipe steps
leading to the left. At the end,
jump into the upside- down pipe
directly above you when the
Piranha Plant recedes into its
pipe. Head to the right and hit
the ? block to receive a Mini
Mushroom.

As Mini Mario, head back to the
left and wall jump between the
left wall and the upside-down
pipe. Then, go up the skinny
pipe and collect Star Coin #3
when you appear at the other
end. Grab the coins overhead,
then exit via the pipe to the
right. From here, be careful of
the Piranha Plants since you're
particularly vulnerable right
now, and jump to the far right.
Hit the yellow face block a few
times to form a stack, then jump
onto it and go through the right
pipe.

Once you're outside, go right
and hop over to the flagpole to
exit.


Stage 7-7
---------

Starting off in this
automatically-scrolling stage,
go right and hit the ? block to
get an item. When you reach the
wheel with ledges around it,
stand on the ledges farthest to
the side to make the wheel move.
Go right with it, making sure to
grab Star Coin #1 as you pass.
Hop along the donut blocks so
they don't sink, then jump to
the next ledge with the Koopa
Troopa. Make your way right by
jumping across platforms that
move back and forth, then jump
onto the platform on a track
going upward.

Head upward atop the platform on
the track, jumping through the
Red Ring on the way if you want.
At the end of the track, jump to
the left platform and stand on
the first set of donut blocks.
Sink with them to obtain Star
Coin #2 then jump onto the ledge
above to avoid dying. Go left
onto another series of donut
blocks, hopping along them to
keep them from sinking. When the
screen scrolls upward again,
jump up to the higher tiers of
donut blocks. At the top, jump
to grab Star Coin #3 in the air,
then get onto the moving
platform to the right.

Hop across the next bunch of
donut blocks (or sink with some
to grab the coins under the
platforms). When you reach the
next track, hop onto the wheel
of ledges, but this time, you
have to manually turn it to
progress up the track. Simply
stand on the rightmost ledge of
the wheel and keep jumping
upward as it turns to keep a
constant pace, so you don't get
caught by the scrolling screen.
At the top of the track, bounce
on the Paratroopas to reach the
final flagpole to the right.


Castle
------

In here, go right and hop onto
the line of green blocks, and
they will begin to move (another
element from Super Mario World
here). The blocks will act as
your means of transport
throughout this castle, so stay
towards the front of it and be
ready to jump to avoid any
obstacles in the way. Go right
and up the steps, then jump over
the first electrical ball enemy.
When the line of blocks turns
downward, jump in the air to
grab Star Coin #1.

Follow the line of blocks to the
left, jumping over the second
electrical ball below you.
Continue to the right with the
blocks, as they pass over the
spiked floors. Hit the ? block
along the way to get an item.
When you reach the Thwomps,
trigger them to fall by getting
close, then jump over them so
you don't end up falling off
back end of the blocks. Up
ahead, you will hit the end of
the line, so jump onto the
regular platforms to reach the
midpoint.

Hit the next ? block to get
another item, then hop onto the
next set of green blocks. Follow
them to the right, this time
moving to avoid the spiked balls
that rotate around the blocks
they're connected to. When you
are above Star Coin #2, drop
down from above to grab it, then
squat down on the block until
the green blocks come back to
the right. At that point, jump
back onto the blocks and
continue onward.

Up ahead, watch out for the
fire-shooting blocks (you can
move around on the blocks to
avoid them, but a couple of them
you'll have to jump over). When
you reach the far right, the
blocks will stop moving before
they fall into the pit below.
Stand to the right and wait
until the block you're on starts
to fall. When that happens, jump
to the right, grabbing Star Coin
#3 on the way up. Then, land on
the ledge and enter the boss's
room.

Out here, jump up the ledges and
go right (if you want a hidden
item, jump to the left ledge and
hop around to find a hidden
block). On the bridge, you will
meet up with Lakithunder, who
appears to be this world's boss.
Lakithunder will float around
high above, throwing Spiny balls
at you, and every now and then
will try and hit you from above
with a lightning bolt. There are
gaps at each end of the
platform, so be careful not to
fall into them as you avoid the
attacks. Lakithunder will swoop
down every now and then; when he
does, jump on his head to score
a hit. Do this three times to
win the fight.

Once the fight is over, grab the
golden key and head on out to
World 8!


=======
World 8
=======

S: Start Point #: Stage
Locations T: Tower C: Castle GT:
Green Toad House IT: Item Toad
House MT: Mega Toad House *:
Secret path unlocked by findi
x#: Pay the designated amount of
Star Coins to open the path.

   /---MT    IT
   |           |
   |^x5        |^x5
S --- 1 --- 2 ---T1 --- 3 ---- 4
       |vx5                     
       |                        
      GT ---/                   


Stage 8-1
---------

When you arrive in this opener
stage, you will notice that
things are much darker. Also,
there will be crows hovering
overhead and swooping down at
you every now and then, so watch
out. Anyway, head to the right
and defeat the numerous enemies
you come across. Eventually you
will come to a point where there
is a single ? block in the air
and two blocks below it. Hit
that block to get a springboard.

Pick up the springboard and
carry it to the right, then jump
to the ledge comprised of 2
blocks and drop it there. Bounce
on the springboard to reach a
hidden area in the sky, where
you will be able to grab Star
Coin #1. When you land, hop over
the pits as you continue to the
right. Hit the block past the
midpoint to get an item, while
stomping the various Bullet
Bills you'll encounter as you
head right. When you reach a
bunch of step platforms with
Bullet Bill cannons on them,
bounce from a Bullet Bill to
reach Star Coin #2 high in the
air.

Next, jump to the upper-right
ledge and go right. Jump on the
giant Bullet Bill when it gets
shot at you, then drop to the
ledge below to retrieve Star
Coin #3. Jump back up and bounce
on the next giant bullet to land
on the cannon itself. From
there, jump to the small ledge
to the right, then onward to the
flagpole.


Stage 8-2
---------

Start off this level by entering
the pipe directly in front of
you. In the watery room, swim to
the right and hit the ? switch
to raise the water level
temporarily. Quickly swim upward
to the surface, then jump to the
ledge and head through the left
pipe. In that room, hop across
the barrels floating on the
surface and hit the ? switch on
the far ledge to raise the water
some more. Get back across the
room by hopping on the barrels,
then go through the pipe on the
upper ledge (the skinny pipe you
can access as Mini Mario only
leads to a coin room).

In the next room full of blocks,
stand about 3/4 of the way to
the right side of the blocks,
then ground pound straight down
through all the rows. If you
were in the proper position, you
will grab Star Coin #1 in the
air on the way down. When you
hit the ground, the midpoint
flag will pop up, so go into the
right pipe.

When you appear in the next
room, go right and hit the ?
switch to raise the water level
again. Swim to the very top and
the two spider enemies will be
at the surface. Get to the right
side and bounce on one, then
wall jump at the peak of your
jump to grab Star Coin #2 in the
air high above. After that, go
into the water and enter the
lower of the two pipes on the
right side of the room.

In the next room, hit the ?
switch on the ceiling and swim
upward in the right side of the
room. At the top, jump to the
ledge and grab Star Coin #3.
Then, sink back to the bottom
area and hit the ? switch again.
This time, swim up the left side
and go up the upside-down pipe
there. When you get outside,
jump across the small ledges to
reach the flagpole.


Tower #1
--------

Starting off, wait for the first
gray platform to move over the
spike pit so you can safely
cross. Then, jump to the next
ledge and stomp the Dry Bones
there. Go left and walk along
the second gray platform when it
moves left, then jump to the
ledge where Star Coin #1 can be
recovered. Go back right and
jump onto the extremely long
gray platform above you, then
hop onto the ? block to the
right. From there, jump to the
next couple of gray platforms
above.

When you reach the plateau,
stomp on the Dry Bones and jump
to the upper-left ledge when the
gray platform below moves to the
left, allowing you to reach it.
Jump upward onto the upper ledge
when the large gray block moves
away, then hop up to a small
ledge and squat down. Allow the
gray ledge to push you to the
right, below all the spikes,
then jump onto the upper ledge
at the end.

Go left and onto the ledge where
the gray block is moving back
and forth on. When it moves to
the left, follow it, then squat
down and hop through the opening
between the block and the left
side of the room. Once there,
jump up the ledges while
avoiding the Spiked Beetles, and
collect Star Coin #2 at the top.
Squat down on the top ledge to
get pushed out of this alcove,
then continue to the right. Ride
the block upward and head left
through the midpoint.

Keep on heading upward by
jumping upon the gray blocks
when you have room to do so. Get
to the right side, and use the
springboard to reach the top
area. Once there, stomp on the
Dry Bones enemies and wait for
the winged block to fly
overhead. Hit it and jump onto
it, then leap in the air to grab
Star Coin #3 (there are some
hidden blocks, so be careful).
With that done, go into the boss
door to meet Bowser Jr.

This tower fight with Bowser Jr.
will be a bit tricky, with the
moving blocks on the sides that
can crush you if you fall, and
the fire-shooting blocks.
Additionally, you cannot stomp
on Bowser Jr. normally; you have
to avoid him and wait until he
throws a green shell to send it
back at him. Throw the shell and
stomp on his belly to cause
damage. Do this three times and
Bowser Jr. will run off to the
castle, leaving you with a
victory.


Stage 8-3
---------

When you enter this stage, go
into the pipe ahead of you to
reach the underwater portion.
Hit the ? block between the
bubbles to get an item, then
start heading upward through the
area. As you swim towards the
top, try to stay away from the
holes in the sides, since small
eels will try to come out and
hit you if you're not careful.
When you finally reach the top,
a giant eel will bust through
the blocks to the left and give
chase to you through the rest of
the stage.

You must keep swimming to the
right as quickly as you can to
avoid getting hit, since the
giant eel WILL keep up with you
rather well. There will be
plenty of pipes blowing air to
the right, which can assist in
pushing you along. There are
Cheep Cheeps swimming around
every now and then, so try your
best to avoid them as well. Stay
towards the bottom half of the
room as you go, and you will
eventually come across Star Coin
#1 below a row of blocks.

From where you get the first
coin, swim to the upper half of
the room and continue to the
right. You will soon see Star
Coin #2 in an alcove by the
ceiling; break the blocks below
it to reach it (you'll have to
be quick to avoid the eel here,
it can be tough). Continue
onward and you will reach a wall
with Star Coin #3 at the other
side of it, in an underhang of
sorts. Swim around to get it
quickly, but then you have to
keep moving to stay ahead of the
eel.

After this, swim along the top
of the area and you will reach
the end very shortly. Go through
the red pipe to get outside, and
away from that eel once and for
all. Out here, go right and
bounce on the Paratroopa to
reach the flagpole and get some
points!


Stage 8-4
---------

In this final regular stage
before the castle, you will have
to be careful since spiders will
constantly fall from the sky as
you move to the right. Head
right from the start and hit the
? block to get an item, then hop
across a bunch of gray moving
platforms. When you reach the
ledge with the Koopa Troopa,
bounce from a falling spider to
the right in order to reach the
upper-right ledge (or you can
get a good running start from
the lower blocks and dash jump,
but that's more dangerous).
Either way, when you get to that
ledge, grab Star Coin #1 there.

Pass the midpoint to the right,
then hit the next ? block to get
an item. Jump over the pit and
continue to the right, and you
will reach a series of platforms
that move up and down. Above the
last one is Star Coin #2, so
dash jump from the second-to-
last platform to reach it. On
the next platform, hit the left
? block to get a Starman if you
want it. Up ahead, get onto the
moving gray platforms and you
will see a skinny pipe below
(you will need to be Mini Mario
for this; if you aren't, either
come back to this level later,
or continue right to the
flagpole).

As Mini Mario, go down the
skinny pipe into a hidden room.
Hit the first ? block to get a
Starman, then go across to the
right side of the room, killing
the Mini Goombas along the way.
At the other side, hit the other
? block to get another Starman.
This time, jump to the upper
ledge and run all the way left.
At the end, grab Star Coin #3
and go through the pipe to exit.
When you emerge, simply go right
and jump to the flagpole
(hopefully your Starman power
will still be active to make
this easy).


Castle #1
---------

Here you are at last, in the
final castle of the final world
(so you think). So you are
aware, on every dry platform
there is a red block that will
switch the platforms on the
surrounding tracks. Anyway, hit
the block above where you begin
and ride the platform on the low
track. Ignore the second block
and continue right. On the third
ledge, hit the block, then ride
the upper platform back to the
left so you can nab Star Coin
#1.

Ride the platform back across,
then ignore the block and
continue to the right. At the
next stop, hit the block and use
the platform above the one
you're currently on to reach the
upper track. Ride that platform
to the right, but stay aboard
when it falls and you will reach
Star Coin #2 below. On the next
safe ledge, do not hit the block
and ride the lower platform
onward (make sure to jump over
the wall as you pass and avoid
the fireballs).

At the end of the ride, swing
from the rope to reach the next
platform. There, hit the second
block to get an item. For the
next part, jump across the
rotating triangular blocks,
followed by some rectangular
blocks. Swing from another rope,
then jump to the final ledge.
Drop to the platform on the
track, and squat down as it
passes to the right. Over there,
jump across the rotating
platforms to reach Star Coin #3
(there is a hidden third
platform above the lava, which
you can stand on when they're
vertically aligned).

When you're done, wait for the
platform to return, then ride it
back to the left. Then, jump to
the upper ledge and go through
the door to reach the boss's
room. Inside, head to the right
and you will run into Bowser Jr.
once again. He will run off,
leaving you to face Skeletal
Bowser. This version of Bowser
will move towards you, stopping
periodically to throw bones or
spit fire at you. Every so often
he will jump in the air
(sometimes high, other times
just a slight bit). When that
happens, quickly run/slide
underneath and step on the red
switch to end the fight.

Just when you thought that was
it, Bowser Jr. will escape with
the Princess. The view will
shift to the world map, where a
bridge forms leading to an
entirely new area of the world.
Guess it's not over yet, so you
might as well continue onward.


Stage 8-5
---------

In this lava-filled stage, head
to the right, jumping from
platform to platform while
avoiding the fireballs and lava.
Head right and hit the ? block
above the large wobbling
platform to get an item. There
will be brown platforms
balancing on tiny bases, and
they will fall over shortly
after you step on them, so be
quick to avoid sinking with it.
Continue right and drop to a
lower ledge to get Star Coin #1
on the way (it's below the
platform with two ? blocks).

Up ahead, hit the ? block on the
next large platform to get
another item. Hop along a series
of platforms, then jump onto the
wobbling platform at the top of
those steps. Jump to the lower
platform to the right, then
stomp a Koopa Troopa and kick
its shell to the left to receive
Star Coin #2. Go right and jump
along the coin arc, then
continue by jumping across a
bunch of low-lying platforms,
defeating the Koopa Troopas
along the way.

At the end of this stretch, you
will reach a slightly raised
platform. On that one, dash and
jump to the higher ledge, then
jump from that to reach Star
Coin #3. Now, go into the pipe
ahead to reach the final area.
When you emerge, go right to the
flagpole and exit this stage.


Stage 8-6
---------

In here, you will have another
of those stages where both sides
of the screen are connected (you
run off the right side and
appear on the left, and vice
versa). Start by going left and
up the path to the first ?
block, which will contain an
item. Jump through the thin
ledge above, and then jump
upward through the opening in
the center. Go down the pipe to
launch over the left wall, then
go down those steps to reach
Star Coin #1.

From here, go up the steps and
jump through the thin ledge
above, then go up the hills
while defeating the Goombas on
the way up. Hit the next ? block
for an item, and you will now
see some Spin Blocks. Use the
first two to reach the upper
ledges. Avoid the Paratroopa and
use the third Spin Block to
reach the upper-left ledge, then
ground pound through the blocks
to obtain Star Coin #2.

Hop up the small ledges and go
left to the other side of the
screen, then drop onto the Spin
Block and use it to reach the
upper section. Move to the left
as you jump up the red
platforms, avoiding the Spiny
enemies (if you are Fire Mario,
kill them). When you reach the
fourth red platform, jump
through the right opening to
reach Star Coin #3.

After that, hop up the final
couple of ledges and drop into
the pipe to launch out of here.
Out there, you can simply go
right to the flagpole (if you
want some coins and possibly the
1-Up, go left and use the Spin
Block, then glide to the
flagpole).


Stage 8-7
---------

Starting off, go right and jump
across the Paratroopas to reach
the upper ledge. Hit the ? block
to get an item, then go right
and defeat some more enemies.
When you reach the high wall,
jump to reveal a hidden block,
and use it to jump over. Ahead,
you will meet the Sledge Bro,
who will throw hammers and
periodically jump up and down,
causing the ground to shake
(jump when he lands to avoid
being stunned). Defeat it or use
the platform above to avoid it,
then drop to the lower area at
the other side, and run across
the blocks below to reach Star
Coin #1. As soon as you grab the
coin, jump to the ledge above to
avoid falling into the pit.

Continue to the right, shimmying
along the cliffs while jumping
to collect coins. Up ahead,
stomp the Paratroopas you
encounter and continue right to
reach a couple of Fire Bros.
Jump to avoid their fireballs,
then jump on the first one and
hit the second one from below by
utilizing the blocks. Hit the ?
block to get a Starman, then go
right and kill the Koopa Troopas
to accumulate points quickly.

Jump onto the moving platforms
and defeat the Boomerang Bro,
then collect Star Coin #2 on the
platform where the enemy was.
Hop across a couple more
platforms to the next part,
where you will see another
Sledge Bro. You will need to be
Super Mario to ground pound
through the blocks below, so you
can reach Star Coin #3. If not,
then come back later. Continue
right and defeat another
Boomerang Bro, and jump through
the Red Ring. Collect the first
two coins, then launch through
the pipe to cross the pit. Then,
go right to the flagpole to exit
this stage.


Stage 8-8
---------

Here, you will have to worry
about falling chunks of molten
rock, which can get VERY
annoying. If those rocks hit the
Fireworks Bob-ombs, it will
ignite them to explode, but they
won't damage you, instead
shooting off fireworks in the
air. Also, the molten rocks can
break through the cracked yellow
blocks throughout the stage. The
falling rocks have a pattern
though: after they fall, there
will be a brief pause before the
volcanoes in the background
erupt again, so take advantage
of this pause when you can. Go
right and jump up to the higher
ledge, then head back to the
left to retrieve Star Coin #1.

Head to the right some more
while avoiding the falling
rocks, and you will see a skinny
pipe below a thin ledge. Ignore
it for now, and continue to the
right. When you reach a long
flat path with cracked blocks
occupying every couple of
spaces, stand over the second
set of cracked blocks (they're a
lighter gray than the
surrounding blocks). You will
need to be Mini Mario for this,
so hopefully you brought along a
Mini Mushroom; if not, you will
have to return later. Wait for
the falling rocks above to clear
those blocks, then go down the
skinny pipe.

In the maze below, make your way
through it, collecting Star Coin
#2 at the bottom center area.
Exit via the upper-left pipe.
When you emerge, jump to the
ledge directly above, then jump
again to hit a hidden block
containing a Starman. Run all
the way right along that flat
path, and you will see Star Coin
#3 surrounded by blocks. Wait
for the falling rocks to clear
some of those blocks away,
giving you access to the coin.

With all three coins in your
possession, continue to the
right through the rest of the
level. There will be another
long platform comprised entirely
of cracked blocks. Run across
it, hopping over the Fireworks
Bob-ombs and avoiding the rocks.
At the very end, jump to the
flagpole to end this stage.


Tower #2
--------

In this final tower of the game,
go right and you will get to
ride on another of those long
green block platforms. Move
along with the platform as it
moves upward and to the right,
avoiding the rotating fire
sticks along the way. When you
start moving to the left again,
watch out for the spikes as you
go left with the platform. Jump
to collect Star Coin #1 in a
niche between the spikes.

Keep riding the green platform
as it snakes around the open
area above. When the platform
starts moving upward and to the
right amongst the rotating fire
sticks, jump to the ledge above
the green blocks, and head right
to collect Star Coin #2. Reunite
with the green blocks at the
end, and continue riding it
upward and to the left. For this
next part, you will have to deal
with spiked balls plowing
through the walls and falling in
your direction. As you reach the
left side of the room, one of
the spiked balls will land on
your platform and will roll
along, so jump to avoid it.

As you reach the upper-left area
of the room, you will see
another spiked ball blasting
through the wall, but there will
also be a ledge above that
point. Jump to the ledge and you
will find Star Coin #3. Now,
ride the platform as it makes
its final ascent in the center
area, while avoiding the spikes
on the walls. At the top, go
right and into the door to face
up against Bowser Jr.

For this matchup, you cannot
jump on Bowser Jr. directly, but
there are no other hazards in
the room, so long as you stay on
the battle platform. Anyway,
Bowser Jr. will jump and charge
at you before throwing a green
shell rather quickly at you.
Jump on the shell and toss it
back at Bowser Jr. to flip him
over, then stomp his belly to
cause damage. Do this three
times and the battle will end.


Final Castle
------------

At last, you are at the final
castle of the game, but don't
expect things to be too easy! In
this first room, go right across
all the platforms while being
careful of the fireballs jumping
out of the lava. At the end, go
through the door to reach the
next room. In here, hit the
middle block to reveal a ?
switch; hit it to flip the room,
then enter the newly accessible
door.

In this room, make your way
upward and to the right while
avoiding the fire- shooting
blocks. When you reach the
rightmost point by the door, go
into the room there. Trigger the
giant Thwomp to fall, then jump
over the platform as it rises
again. Hit the third block above
to reveal a ? switch, then
continue right.

Hit the ? block above to get an
item, and hop over the left wall
to hit the switch. After the
room flips, drop to the lower
area and go left. Wait for the
giant Thwomp to fall and rise
before crossing underneath, then
enter the next room. Make your
way all the way to the far left
side of the room, while jumping
over the fire-shooting blocks
when it's safe to do so. Jump
over the spike pit and you will
see a lone block; hit it to
reveal a ? switch. Jump on the
switch to make a moving platform
appear in the adjacent room to
the left.

Next, go back to the right side
of the room again. After you
pass the platform with the two
fire-shooting blocks, you will
see an upper ledge above the
path with the Dry Bones. Jump to
that ledge and slide under the
upside- down fire-shooter to
reach the door. In that next
room, go up the steps after you
trigger the Thwomps. At the top,
jump to the upper ledge and head
left to find Star Coin #1.

Now, go back to the right and
make your way downward. Avoid
the spikes as you go down and to
the left. When you are going
down the steps, hit the blocks
overhead and one will yield a ?
switch. Hit it to flip the room,
then jump back up the steps.
Avoid the Thwomps as you reach
the top area, then trigger the
Thwomp to the right. When it
rises, quickly slip under it and
go right. Jump over the spike
pit and defeat the Dry Bones,
then enter the room below.

Here, you will see a spike pit
to the left and a platform
moving up and down above it (the
one you made appear before).
Jump to the platform and enter
the upper-left door it leads you
to. In that room, go right to
find Star Coin #2, then jump to
the upper ledge and go through
the door there. Go right in that
room to pass the midpoint
finally, then hit the ? block
ahead to get an item.

Go right and you will see three
levels of platforms you can
travel on. If you remember the
original Super Mario Bros., you
will know that you have to get
through this next section by
traveling the different levels
in a certain order, or else
it'll loop infinitely. If you
took the right path, you will
hear a ding; if you took the
wrong path, you will hear a
heavier sound, and you will have
to start from the beginning.

Anyway, for this next part, take
the bottom path, then the top
path, and finally the middle
path. If you did it right, you
will be able to continue onward.
Below you will see Star Coin #3
in the corner. Ground pound the
blocks to the right of it, then
go into the corner and grab the
coin. Jump through the thin
ledge and continue right to the
boss door. Go inside and head
right to meet up with Bowser and
Bowser Jr.

The fight will now commence
against both father and son,
together. Your first priority
will have to be Bowser Jr. He
will jump and charge at you, and
you are not allowed to jump on
him normally because of the
spiked shell. Wait for Bowser
Jr. to throw a green shell, then
toss it back at him, and jump on
his belly to cause damage. Do
this three times and Bowser Jr.
is done for. While you're
dealing with Bowser Jr. though,
regular-sized Bowser will slowly
move towards you while spitting
fireballs.

After you beat Bowser Jr, the
Resurrected Bowser will start
shooting several fireballs at
once in various directions. Stay
back, then jump to avoid the
lower-flying ones. He will
sometimes shoot three blue
fireballs at you: one straight
ahead, and the other two will go
in each of the diagonal
directions. All you need to do
is wait for Bowser to jump in
the air. When he does, quickly
dash under him and step on the
red switch to remove the bridge,
finishing him off in such a
traditional fashion.

Following the fight, you will be
reunited with Princess Peach,
and the credits will begin to
roll. Congratulations on playing
through and beating the New
Super Mario Bros. game!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Enemies  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Amp: These decent-sized black
balls of electricity are found
in certain Tower
 and Castle stages. They are usu
 you if you touch them. You cann
 to try your best to avoid it.

Balloon Boo: This ghost is the
same as the regular Boo, but it
has balloon
   properties as well. If you tu
   will start to increase in siz
   its air.

Banzai Bill: This is a extremely
giant-sized Bullet Bill, shot
out of a huge
   cannon, and is a rare sight. 
   size, but you can still jump 

Blockhopper: This enemy is
disguised as a stack of blocks,
and when you get
   close enough, it'll start hop
   pile of blocks, the only way 
   through the stack. Usually if
an item out of the bottom block.

Blooper: These are the famous
squid enemies that swim upward
and to the side
  in the water. If you get close
  be careful and swim around the
  areas where you will find Bloo
  versions of itself. It will se
  directions to attack you, so w

Bob-omb: The black bombs that
walk around aimlessly. If you
jump on one, its
  fuse will light and it'll be a
  clearing blocks and other enem
  and place it where you want be

Boo: These shy round ghosts are
back in this game, and are
mainly found in
 the Ghost Houses, of course. If
 to hover towards you. However, 
 stay where it is. Use this to y
 away from a certain ledge and s

Boomerang Bro: This turtle enemy
stands still and tosses a slow-
moving
   boomerang in your direction t
   jump on this enemy's head dir

Broozer: These are the ghosts
that walk around on certain
platforms and punch
  through blocks in their path. 
  but are quite useful when tryi
  obstructed by blocks.

Bullet Bill: Also from the
original Super Mario Bros., this
bullet with a
   face flies straight ahead in 
   it to destroy it without taki
   Bills are usually shot out of
   ones). If you stand directly 
   shoot, which is useful to kee

Buzzy Beetle: These hard-shelled
beetles can be found crawling on
ceilings in
   underground levels. If you pa
   from the ceiling and spin tow
   on its shell and then pick it

Chain Chomp: This black ball
with its teeth showing is
chained to a post on
   certain platforms. If you get
   quick to jump and avoid it. I
   pound the stake it's chained 
   Chomp, receiving several coin

Cheep-Cheep: A simple non-
aggressive fish that swims
around in the water
   levels. It keeps to itself, s
it, or use fireballs to kill it.

Cheep-Chomp: This large blue-
colored fish will not only
follow you around if
   you get too close, but it wil
   Keep your distance or use fir
   before you get caught and end

Crowber: These black birds are
only found in the final areas of
the game.
  They circle high above the sky
  they will swoop down to attack
  a lot of them rather quickly, 
  them.

Deep-Cheep: This version of the
Cheep-Cheep is green, and will
swim towards
   you if you get close enough. 
 being attacked by these fish.

Dry Bones: A skeletal
incarnation of the infamous
Koopa Troopa. If you jump
  on this enemy, its bones will 
  seconds before coming back tog
  kick around.

Fire Bro: These red turtle
enemies, usually in pairs, will
spit fireballs at
  you, much like your Fire Flowe
  tricky to avoid since they bou
  easy to jump on their heads an

Fire Snake: Found mainly in the
desert stages, this is a small
snake made up
   entirely of fireballs. It hop
   slightly higher blocks and le
   by normal means, so it may be
   avoid it.

Flame Chomp: This odd creature
floating in the sky is comprised
of a black
   head, trailed by several fire
   towards you, periodically spi
   on its black head when it's s
   reappears after several momen

Giant Spiked Ball: It's a much
larger spiked ball, which also
rolls along the
    path. It is indestructible, 
      by jumping over it.

Goomba: The trademark mushroom
enemies are back yet again,
which is no
  surprise. They are among the m
  straight ahead and nothing mor

Green Koopa: The generic Koopa
Troopa with a green shell. This
version simply
   walks straight ahead, and wil
   it's into a pit. You can jump
   it will temporarily retract i
   shell and carry/throw it to b
   etc.

Green Paratroopa: Here is the
regular Koopa Troopa enemy, but
with wings. The
    green-shelled ones will fly 
    can jump from them to reach 
    you jump on a Paratroopa, it
    a regular Koopa Troopa.

Hammer Bro: This turtle enemy
stands on a ledge and throws
several hammers in
   the air at you. It pauses aft
   that time to stomp atop its h
   up/down block ledges if it's 
   when passing it.

Kab-omb: They are the same as
regular Bob-ombs, but if you
stomp on one, it
  will run around aimlessly befo
  will not damage you; instead i
 as a sign of peace or whatnot.

Lakitu: Another famous enemy
from the original Super Mario
Bros., this turtle
  floats in a cloud high above y
  It is rather hard to jump on i
  levels with Lakitu, but if you
  its cloud for several moments,
  above. If you kill a Lakitu, a
  several moments, so beware.

Mega Cheep-Cheep: These are a
larger version of the regular
Cheep-Cheeps.
    Swim around to avoid it, or 
      you're so inclined.

Mega Deep-Cheep: A much larger
version of the Deep-Cheep enemy,
obviously.
    Try to avoid them when they 
    fireballs to kill it off qui

Mega Unagi: A giant-sized eel,
as the name implies. There are a
couple of
   underwater stages where it wi
   the screen and you either hav
   by it. Another stage late in 
   having it eat you. You cannot
     most you can do here.

Mini Goomba: These are the tiny
Goombas you will find in a few
secret pipe
   rooms, usually accessible as 
   harder to see them, jumping w

Moneybag: This thief disguises
himself as a coin, and will hop
across
  platforms to get away. If you 
  its head a bunch of times, you
  extra life!

Paragoomba: A winged version of
the regular Goomba enemy. It
flies around in
   the air, sometimes swooping d

Piranha Plant: The classic plant
that pops out of pipes for brief
intervals.
   This version does not attack 
   for a couple moments before r
   if you are standing directly 
   plant inside will not come ou
   be sometimes found on the gro
 bite you as you jump over it.

Pokey: The segmented cactus
enemy, as seen in Super Mario
Brothers 3. It is
 primarily found in the desert s
 sizes. It moves rather slowly t
 jump over. Jump on its head or 
 segments until you defeat it en

Red Koopa: This Koopa Troopa is
the same as its green-shelled
counterpart.
  The difference is that this on
  its platform without falling o

Red Paratroopa: This flying
enemy is just like the green-
shelled version, but
    this one will fly horizontal

Scuttlebug: These giant spiders
hang from the ceiling, and may
fall on you if
   you pass underneath. If you a
   can hop across them to reach 
   such.

Skeeter: These are the spiders
from Super Mario 64, which glide
along the
  surface of the water. If you a
  will try to drop a bomb on you
  difficult surfacing with them 
  try to block you from jumping 
  their heads will be enough to 

Snailicorn: Found in a few snowy
stages, this snail/unicorn mix
will charge
   at you when it spots you on i
   shell if you try jumping on i
   jump over it when it charges 

Snow Spike: This robot-like
enemy stands on a ledge (in
snowy stages) and
   throws snowballs at you. Avoi
   jumping, then jump on this en

Spike Bass: This large spiked
fish will periodically jump out
of the water
   and attempt to swallow you wh
   platform. It only appears in 
   water along the bottom. To ma
   with a fireball, but a new on
   so watch out.

Spike Top: This enemy is
essentially the same as Buzzy
Beetle, but it has a
  single spike on its shell, whi
  They are primarily found in gr
  of a block structure or other 

Spiked Ball: Rolling along in a
couple of Towers/Castles, these
small spiked
   balls break through balls and
   towards you. All you can real

Spiny: These are the spiky-
shelled enemies that Lakitu
throws down at you
 from above. When on the ground,
 path. You cannot jump on it, so
 to defeat it, otherwise jump to

Splunkin: It's a walking pumpkin
enemy, found mainly in the Ghost
Houses as
  well. If you jump on one, it w
  much faster.

Squiggler: These are the much
smaller offspring of the
Wiggler. They crawl
  out of pipes in one of the lat
  defeated with ease by jumping 

Sumo Bro: These extremely large
and heavy turtles will throw
hammers at you
  before jumping in the air, cau
  are on the ground when they la
  so be prepared to jump when yo

Super Dry Bones: This is the
giant-sized version of the
regular Dry Bones. It
    will take several jumps and/
    fall apart.

Super Piranha Plant: This is the
giant-sized version of the
Piranha Plant, as
     you may have guessed. It ca
     its size, and it will actua
     kill it. Other than that, y
  jump to get past it safely.

Super Thwomp: A giant-sized
version of the original Thwomps.
It's just a much
   larger block you have to avoi
   indestructible blocks floatin
     stay clear to be safe!

Sushi: In the watery stages, you
have to worry about this shark
enemy
 attacking you as well. As with 
distance and you should be fine.

Swoop: These are the small blue
bats found in certain
underground levels.
 They can be quite annoying when
 at the right time, especially i
 the head will defeat them, thou

Thwomp Trap: The gray blocks
with mean faces, which come
crashing down if you
   get too close or try passing 
   it's moving back up to its in
   safely below.

Unagi: The Japanese word for
eel, these small eel enemies can
be found
 lurking in holes in the walls i
 too close to the hole, the eel 
 far enough away and you may avo

Venus Fire Trap: This pipe-
dwelling plant will emerge and
spit a couple
    fireballs diagonally in your
    into its pipe. The fireballs
    want to fight back, use your

Whomp: Found in very few areas,
these are the walking gray
blocks as seen in
 Super Mario 64. If you try to p
 collapse onto you. When it does
 it instantly.

Wiggler: Here is the famous
yellow caterpillar enemy first
seen in Super
  Mario World. It calmly walks a
  it, it'll turn red and start c
  really kill it by jumping on i
  defeat it if necessary.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Items  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

? Switch: When this yellow
switch is triggered, it causes
some special event
  to take place within the area.
  or will only last for a limite

! Switch: In some stages, you
may see outlines of blocks in
certain areas. If
  you hit the usually nearby red
  outlines with solid red blocks

1-Up Mushroom: This classic
green mushroom will give you an
extra life.

Blue Shell: When you get this
item, you will become Shell
Mario. You will
   have a shell on your back; if
   will retreat into the shell a
   can break through blocks and 
   defeat any enemies you hit. I
   through underwater levels! To
   around in shell form, simply 

Coin: These are the yellow coins
you find everywhere in the game.
If you
 collect 100 of them, you will g

Fire Flower: Turns you into Fire
Mario, and gives you the ability
to shoot
   fireballs from your hands. If
   it will turn into a coin you 

Mega Mushroom: When you use
this, Mario becomes giant-sized
for a limited
   time. During this time, you c
   anything in the stage, includ
   meter will appear at the top 
   colors after a certain amount
   and objects you go through, t
   When the power runs out, depe
      you will gain 1-Ups.

Mini Mushroom: When used, you
will shrink down to a miniature
form. In this
   form, you are highly vulnerab
   killed on impact. However, be
   able to fit through very smal
   can walk on water and your ju
   your size.

Mushroom: This ordinary
mushroom, when grabbed, will
turn you into Super
  Mario. You will simply be larg
  take a hit from an enemy (you 

P Switch: This blue switch with
the letter P on it will make all
the coins in
  the area turn into blocks, and
  few moments, so move quickly i

Red Ring/Coins: When you spot a
red ring in the air, if you were
to jump
    through it, 8 Red Coins will
    8 coins quickly before they 
     item or an extra life.

Spin Block: When you jump onto
this blue spinning platform,
then jump off it,
   you will launch upward into t
   be able to glide in the air, 
   you press Down while spinning
   diving drill attack which can
   bounce even higher if you hit

Starman: This yellow star will
make you invincible to all
attacks for several
  moments. You can run through e
  will not be damaged by other a

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Mini-Games -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=================
Action Mini-Games
=================

Snowball Slalom
---------------

You will be on a straightforward
course, with a small snowball on
the touch screen to push along.
Both screens display the course,
with the top screen showing you
what's coming up, so you can
steer to avoid obstacles on the
way. Rub the stylus upward
repeatedly to move the snowball,
which will get larger as you
move along. Make it across the
finish line in 15 seconds to
win. Be careful though since if
you run into a rock, you'll stop
and lose time, so be sure to
steer clear of those when
possible.


Lakitu Launch
-------------

Floating on the top screen will
be 2 giant tubs, and the touch
screen will have a slingshot set
up again. You are to launch
Spinies upward so they fall into
the tubs as they hover around.
You have 30 seconds to launch as
many Spinies as you can, making
sure as many fall into the tubs
as possible. After the time is
up, the total amount will be
tallied and your score will
reflect how many Spinies you've
bagged.


Danger, Bob-omb! Danger!
------------------------

On the touch screen, you will
use the stylus to move a Bob-omb
around the area. Moving back and
forth on the top screen is a
giant Bowser statue which will
shoot streams of fire downward.
The objective here is to move
the bomb around and stay alive
as long as possible. If the Bob-
omb is hit by the fire blast
from the statue, or any of the
small fireballs moving around
the touch screen, it will ignite
and explode, ending your game.


Whack-a-Monty
-------------

On the touch screen, there will
be 20 holes from which Monty
Moles can pop out. Luigi will
also pop out of the holes every
now and then. You will be given
30 seconds, in which you must
"whack" as many Monty Moles as
possible by using your stylus to
tap them as they appear. You
will gain 1 point for each mole
you hit. Be careful though,
since if you hit Luigi, you will
lose 3 points!


Balloon Racing
--------------

You will have control of Yoshi
on the bottom screen, who has 3
balloons attached to his back.
To make him fly, you have to
blow into the DS's microphone
(blowing at the screen tends to
work as well). Blow harder to
fly higher more quickly. The top
screen will show you what's
above, so you can judge when a
safe time to fly is. Be careful
of the Shy Guys floating back
and forth on the way up; if you
get hit, you will lose a
balloon. If you lose all three
balloons before reaching the
floating ship at the top, you
lose. You also have 20 seconds
to reach the ship, so you can't
waste too much time waiting,
either.


Snowball Slam (Vs. Only)
------------------------

Here, you can have a classic
snowball fight across both
screens. Your character will be
on the bottom screen and the
opponent will appear on your top
screen. On the touch screen, the
area is split in half as well.
You move your character around
by tapping and holding the
stylus down on a specific
location, and to attack, you tap
the upper half of the screen to
toss a snowball in that
direction. There are 3 snowmen
on your platform; break one by
tapping it, then move over to
the snow pile to replenish your
snowball collection (can carry
10 total). Once you clean up the
piles, new snowmen will appear
soon after. It can be a tricky
albeit fun game, since you have
to coordinate your attacks by
where your opponent is on the
screen above.


=================
Puzzle Mini-Games
=================

Wanted!
-------

You are shown a picture of the
wanted character on the top
screen, then a grid of faces
appears on the touch screen. You
must point out the wanted
character from the crowd within
the time limit to add more
seconds to your time for the
next level. The size and
movements of the crowd will
become more complex as you go
on, making it quite difficult to
find who you're looking for
after a while.


Which Wiggler?
--------------

On the top screen, you will be
shown the top view of a Wiggler.
Take note of its pattern since
you'll have to pick it out of a
crowd on the touch screen below
within the time limit. Guess
wrong and you'll lose 10
seconds; get it right and gain 5
seconds. At first it's easy to
pick them out in time, but it
really ramps up in difficulty as
the levels progress, so beware!


Hide and Boo Seek
-----------------

You are shown a room in a
haunted mansion, where Boos
float around. 1-4 Boos will
float in the room shown on your
touch screen, then the room will
go to black and you'll have 3
seconds to rub the screen to
reveal the hidden Boo or Boos.
Succeed and you go to the next
level. After 15 levels, you will
only have 2 seconds to find the
Boos.


Puzzle Panel
------------

You are shown a grid on the top
screen, then a mixed up version
of the same board on the touch
screen. You then have a certain
amount of turns, or times you
can flip panels around to
rearrange them, to make the
bottom match the top. When you
point at a given tile, it flips
all surrounding tiles, so keep
that in mind and good luck with
this one. If you can't make it
work within the amount of turns
you have, you'll lose a heart
and get to try again; lose all 3
and it'll be game over.


Coincentration
--------------

Wario will toss an enemy in the
air, and many coins will fall on
the touch screen area, which
consists of 3 rows of blocks.
The coins will fall into the
different blocks. After the
coins have all vanished from
sight, you can tap any of the
blocks you want. The idea is to
tap the blocks with coins
inside. You can keep picking
blocks until you tap one with
nothing inside, which at that
point the game ends and the
coins you did get are tallied
up.


Loves Me... (Vs. Only)
----------------------

In this short and simple game,
the touch screen displays a
flower with many petals attached
to it. Each player takes turns
plucking petals off the flower,
up to 3 per turn (a player can
pass their turn by tapping the
Pass button if they don't want
to pull 3). The game ends when
there are no petals left. Each
time you pull a petal, it will
alternate between "Loves Me" and
"Loves Me Not". To win, you need
to be the player who pulls the
final petal so the screen says
"Loves Me". If you pick the
final petal and it says "Loves
Me Not", you lose. The pass
feature comes in handy towards
the end of these rounds for that
reason alone.


================
Table Mini-Games
================

Memory Match
------------

This memory game can be a bit
annoying because of how quickly
you can lose. There will be an
even amount of cards placed face
down, and the idea is to pick 2
cards that match. Each time you
play, 3 coins are bet, so each
time you pick a wrong match, you
lose a coin. If you lose all 3,
you lose that game and can
continue until you run out of
coins. The more flawless you are
in guessing the pairs, the more
coins you will win in the end.
For each coin you have left of
the original 3, multiply that by
6 and that's your prize.


Picture Poker
-------------

This is a version of poker using
Mario-esque symbols instead of a
traditional deck of cards. You
are dealt 5 cards, then given an
option to either hold all your
cards, or get rid of some. Tap
the one(s) you don't want and
tap the Hit button to discard
them and bring in however many
new cards you wanted. Before you
hit/hold though, you can
increase your bet up to 5 coins
by tapping the bet button on the
upper left corner of the touch
screen. After being dealt your
new cards, your hand is compared
to the dealer's, and whomever
has the better hand wins (see
the chart on the top screen for
the different combos you can
get, and how much you win; on
the touch screen will be a chart
showing a card's weight versus
another (a pair of stars is
worth more than a pair of
flowers, for example). If you
actually win, the amount you bet
is multiplied by the amount next
to the combination you had
(consult the chart).


Pair-a-Gone
-----------

There will be 20 cards dealt
face up randomly, and you must
form pairs that connect to each
other in any direction,
including diagonal. You must be
able to make connecting pairs
from all the cards, including
the added 16 Luigi deals you at
the bottom after a successful
pair, to win. If you get stuck
at the end, the amount of coins
lost is equal to cards you have
left. Each time you win a round
though, you get 5 coins.


Speed (Vs. Only)
----------------

In this game, each player starts
off with their own pile of 21
cards, face down. Each player
will also receive 4 cards face
up in the middle of the touch
screen. On the top part of the
touch screen are 2 cards; the
idea of the game is to move all
your cards onto those two piles
before your opponent. To do this
however, you need to place cards
that are one rank higher or
lower than the top cards in
those two piles (say one of the
piles has a 2; you need to place
either an Ace or a 3). The key
is to be quick in moving your
cards, so that your opponent
doesn't even have a chance to
get rid of their deck! If one or
both sides has no playable cards
to move onto the decks, a timer
will display. Then, the next
card from both player's decks
will be drawn onto the piles to
continue gameplay.


Luigi's Thrilling Cards (Vs.
Only)
--------------------------------

In this rather interesting game,
each player is dealt one card,
but here's the catch: you cannot
view your own card, but you can
see your opponent's on the top
screen. You will then have the
option to raise your bet (up to
5 coins), or pass the turn. The
idea here is to bet that your
card (which you don't know the
value of) can beat the other
player's card that you can see.
After the first player bets or
passes, the second player will
be able to call the bet. The
first player will then be able
to call the raised bet, if they
desire. After that, both sides
will see their cards, and
whoever had the higher card wins
the pot.


Luigi-Jack (Vs. Only)
---------------------

This game is just like playing
Blackjack, if you are familiar
with card games. Each player is
dealt two cards, and the idea is
to come the closest to 21
without going over by adding up
your card's values. Each player
will have the option to hit,
which means you will get another
card, or to stand, which means
you are happy with your hand.
The value of face cards are 10,
and Ace can be 1 or 11 (whatever
side benefits you). If you
decide to hit and happen to go
over 21, you automatically lose.
After the hitting/standing is
done, both player's hands are
shown. Whoever has the higher
total, without going over 21,
wins.


=========================
Variety/1 On 1 Mini-Games
=========================

Mario's Slides
--------------

There are 4 poles extending down
both screens, which Mario's head
slides down. There are bars on
the top half which causes Mario
to move to an adjacent bar. When
the head gets to the lower half,
you have to draw lines between
the bars to lead the head to the
star below. Be conservative with
your line drawing though, since
they do NOT disappear after each
star! If you make it to 5 stars,
you'll go to a new stage,
meaning a clearer board. Also,
the more stars you get, the
faster Mario descends, so be
careful! In the Vs. Battle
version of this game, both
opponents will be able to draw
lines between the bars to move
Mario back and forth while
trying to collect stars.


Sort or 'Splode
---------------

On the touch screen, there is a
room with two "camps": red and
black. Slowly but with
increasing speed, black and red
Bob-ombs will be sent into the
room. You have to drag each one
to their appropriately colored
pen. Be careful though since
they come out much faster as you
go on. If you put the wrong
colored bomb into a pen, it will
explode, destroying any others
already in that pen, and the
game will be over. If a Bob-omb
explodes outside of the pen, the
ones that you put into pens up
until that point will be
counted, and the game will end.
The idea is to have as many Bob-
ombs as possible, as that's how
you score.


Bounce and Trounce
------------------

You will have control of 3
Marios bouncing around in the
air. There are 3 Fly Guys
situated on the touch screen,
and you must stomp on them all
to get a star and move to the
next stage. The Marios are in
free-fall though, so you have to
tap them to make them bounce.
Where you actually tap them will
determine the direction they
jump, so keep this in mind. If
you miss and let a Mario fall
off the screen 3 times, you
lose.


Bob-omb Squad
-------------

On the bottom of your screen,
there are 4 patches of flowers
you must defend from the Bob-
ombs parachuting in from above.
You have a slingshot which you
can pull back using the stylus,
to launch cannonballs at the
bombs to destroy them. If you
hit multiple bombs in a row with
the same ball, your points will
double with each additional hit.
If you hit the Lakitu that
occasionally flies across the
top of the screen, all the bombs
on your screens will vanish at
100 points each, giving you a
break in those hectic times. The
farther you go, the more bombs
will fall, so be quick to shoot
them all down and stay in the
game!


Trampoline Time
---------------

On the right side of the screen,
there will be 2 ledges that
Mario can climb onto for safety.
The one you must lead them to
will be lit up. Anyway, Marios
will walk off the left side and
fall onto the touch screen area,
where a pit will be. You have to
draw lines to form trampolines
(up to 3 can be onscreen at
once), and bounce them to the
safe ledge. Let 3 fall and you
lose.


Bob-omb Sudden Death (Vs. Only)
-------------------------------

On each player's screen will be
a room with 4 corners: two are
red and two are black. A steady
wave of Bob-ombs will pour into
the room, and it is your
objective to use the stylus to
move each bomb into the corner
designated by its color. If you
take too long to move the bombs
out of the center area, or if
one goes into the wrong color's
side, you lose.


Jumping Brothers (Vs. Only)
---------------------------

In this game, you are in a state
of freefall in a starry sky
(player 1 is Mario, player 2 is
Luigi). You have two of your own
brothers to control; tap them as
they fall to bounce them upward
into the air. You lose 5 points
every time one of your brothers
falls off the screen below. You
gain 2 points by jumping onto
your opponent (and your opponent
loses 2), and 1 point for
landing on a Shy Guy. Whoever
comes out of this match after 60
seconds with the most points,
wins the game.


Lakitu Launch (Vs. Only)
------------------------

Here, each player has control of
a slingshot on their touch
screen. Use the stylus to pull
it back in any direction, then
let go to launch a ball straight
ahead. The point of this game is
to hit more Lakitus than your
opponent and end up with more
points before the timer runs
out. Each Lakitu is worth 100
points, and if you hit the one
carrying a Starman, you will
gain another 1000 points.


Jumping Sudden Death (Vs. Only)
-------------------------------

In this game, each player has
free-falling characters (player
1 is Mario, and the other is
Luigi as always). However, there
is a spike pit that moves upward
from the bottom of the screen as
time goes by. You must tap your
guys to make them bounce in the
air, avoiding the spikes below.
Whoever can survive this spike
tower of sorts without losing 3
of their own characters, will
win the game (the loser is the
first one to hit the spikes 3
times).


Vs. Trampoline Time (Vs. Only)
------------------------------

In this version of Trampoline
Time, both players can draw
trampolines on their respective
sides to keep the Marios from
falling off the screen. The
first player to let 3 Marios
slip by them loses the match, of
course.


Bob-omb Trampoline (Vs. Only)
-----------------------------

In this game, each player has
control of a square trampoline
on their touch screen, which is
covered with lava. You have to
use the stylus to move around
the trampoline, to bounce the
Bob-ombs over to your opponent
at the other side. As the game
progresses, more Bob-ombs are
added to the mix, so pay
attention! The first person to
miss 5 bombs will lose the game.


Vs. Pair-a-Gone (Vs. Only)
--------------------------

There will be 20 cards dealt
face up randomly, and you must
form pairs that connect to each
other in any direction,
including diagonal. You must be
able to make connecting pairs
from all the cards, including
the added 16 Luigi deals you at
the bottom after a successful
pair, to win. If you get stuck
at the end, the amount of coins
lost is equal to cards you have
left. Each time you win a round
though, you get 5 coins. The
difference between this game and
the single-player version is
that when you make a successful
pair, those cards are dumped
onto your opponents screen,
adding to their lot.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  10. Secrets/Tips and Tricks 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

============================
Access Background Pattern #5
============================

When you first beat the game and
gain access to the BG Pattern
house, there will only be 4
patterns total. In order to
access the fifth one (of a
classic SMB scene), you need to
beat every stage and (even more
importantly) spend coins at
every single signpost on the
maps. When this is fulfilled,
the fifth and final background
pattern will be up for sale at
the BG Pattern House (assuming
you beat the game already and
unlocked the blue Toad house on
World 1's map).


==========================
Access World 4 and World 7
==========================

In order to gain access to
Worlds 4 and 7, you must defeat
the World 2 and World 5 Bosses
to open up their respective
worlds as Mini Mario. To defeat
the boss in that form, you will
have to use ground pounds and
precision aim in order to not
miss. Then, when you beat the
boss, you will drop into the
small crack in the floor and
continue to World 4/7 instead!


==============
Challenge Mode
==============

In order to unlock the game's
Challenge Mode, you must first
beat the game. Once you have
done that, go to any world map
and press Start to pause it.
There, enter the following code:
L, R, L, R, X, X, Y, Y. If done
right, a message will show up on
the screen and a yellow arrow
icon will appear on the top-
right area of the screen when
you select a level. When playing
a stage, you will be unable to
run back to previous areas of a
level, so try not to miss
anything on your first
passthrough!


============================
Ending Credits Sound Effects
============================

At the end of the game, when the
credits are scrolling, you can
touch the letters with your
stylus to hear various sound
effects. Also, when you touch on
the screen with your stylus, it
will send a ripple effect across
the screen.


===========================
Flagpoles and Added Bonuses
===========================

Just like the original Super
Mario Brothers, every level ends
when you jump on the flagpole at
the end. You will gain points
depending on how high on the
pole you jumped towards (if you
manage to land on the tip, you
get a 1-Up). Also, depending on
the time left when you hit the
flagpole, fireworks may also
take place in the background
when you enter the fortress
beyond the flagpole. Here is a
list of what can happen at the
end of the levels:

Timer             Effect
-----             ------
111 1 Firework, original SMB
theme plays 222 2 Fireworks,
original SMB theme plays 333 3
Fireworks, original SMB theme
plays 444 4 Fireworks, original
SMB theme plays x11, x22, x33
Toad House (Item) appears on the
map x44, x55, x66 Toad House
(Green) appears on the map x77,
x88, x99 Toad House (Mega)
appears on the map


====================
Infinite 1-Up Tricks
====================

There are a couple of
interesting tricks that can be
tried in order to obtain
potentially unlimited 1-Ups.
Said methods will be detailed
below:

1. This method will require two
   indestructible blocks on the
   ground a fairly short
   distance from each othe
   throwing Spiny enemies at you
   and take its shell. Anyway, w
   in that area between the bloc
   up points. Allow the Lakitu t
   and the shell will keep killi
   eventually 1-Ups.

2. This next method will require
   a pipe that spits out an
   endless supply of Goomba
   enemies. Wait for seve dash
   button and start jumping some
   extra air time between l
   should never touch the ground
   pour out, allowing yourself t
   gain extra air in between Goo
   Goombas as Mini Mario, holdin
   defeat it, and you should hav
   out.

3. In 7-5, just before the block
   formation above the pipe,
   there are two Bullet Bill
   cannon towers tha earlier in
   the level and toss blocks
   overhead. Then, just h

4. This trick was found in the
   original Super Mario
   Brothers, and can be done in
   this game as well. You nee
   before the flagpole, and a Ko
   good example). Jump on the en
   straight up on the left side
   will hit the step again and y
   the step again. With this met
   in a minute!

5. This method may not be for
   "infinite" 1-Ups, but you can
   still get a considerable
   amount by using where you
   will meet the first the dash
   button and jump from ending
   at the midpoint flag,
   correctly.


=====================
Luigi on Title Screen
=====================

Here is an interesting easter
egg to see Luigi on the title
screen during the intro if you
don't make a selection right
away. Highlight the "Mario Vs.
Luigi" option but don't press
anything. If you wait for the
intro scene above to play out,
you will see Luigi walk out
towards the end. This will not
happen if you have any other
option highlighted, and if you
try to move the cursor during
this, the scene will immediately
change.


=======================
Mini Mushroom Locations
=======================

Here is a list of where you can
find Mini Mushrooms (outside of
Toad Houses), for those of you
who haven't beaten the game yet:

Stage 1-4: When you reach the
point where you drop down to a
lower area
  (before the Paratroopa), hit t

Stage 2-Castle: In the second
half of the stage, go right
until you reach the
    pit with a giant spike ball 
    from the rope to reach the l

Stage 3-A: After you pass the
midpoint flag, go right until
you can go into
  the water again by the spiders
   to find the Mini Mushroom.

Stage 7-A: After you pass the
midpoint flag, hop up the pipes
above you with
  the Squigglers coming out. Go 
  then go right (above you will 
  to). If you go right, hit the 


=============
Play as Luigi
=============

To be able to play as Luigi in
single player mode, first go to
the file selection screen.
Highlight the file you wish to
open, then hold L + R before
pressing A. If done correctly,
you will now be able to play as
Luigi. On an added note, if you
press L + R while selecting a
new file, in the opening scene,
Luigi will be walking with
Princess Peach instead of Mario.


================
Save at Any Time
================

If you beat the game once, you
will have the option to save
your game at any time. All you
have to do is select it from the
menu screen when you press Start
while on the world map.


===============
Save File Stars
===============

When you complete the game, you
can receive up to three stars
next to your save file at the
start of the game. You need to
fulfill certain requirements in
order to receive these stars, as
listed below:

1: Beat the game once. 2: Unlock
and complete all stages, and
enter all Cannon areas. 3: Spend
all the Star Coins (signs on
world maps, BG Pattern Toad
House), and
   find all secret exits.


=======================
Toad House Item Success
=======================

The following is a method of
sorts, for when you want to
actually receive the item you
want from the Toad Houses.
First, keep in mind that the
order of items that appear on
the block is:

Mushroom -> Fire Flower -> Blue
Shell -> Mini Mushroom

With that said, stand under the
box, but do not jump right away.
Hit Start to pause the game, and
catch a glimpse of what item it
stopped at prior to the screen
turning black. Suppose you want
a Blue Shell; you'll want the
item it stopped on to be a Fire
Flower. To get the selected item
successfully, quickly hit A to
tap out of the pause screen,
then press A a second time
immediately. With a little bit
of luck, you will most likely
come out with the Blue Shell in
hand!


================================
Touch Screen Background Patterns
================================

When you beat the game, if you
revisit World 1, you will see a
blue Toad's House there. This is
the BG Pattern Toad House.
Inside, you can buy up to 4
additional background patterns
(for the background of your
touch screen), for 20 Star Coins
apiece.


=====================
Unlimited Toad Houses
=====================

After you beat all the levels in
the game (secret ones included),
you will see on the map that all
of the Toad Houses you used will
be restored. As an added perk,
you can visit any of them an
infinite amount of times to get
more items and 1-Ups at any
time!


=================
Warp Zone Cannons
=================

In some worlds, there are
cannons you can access (usually
through taking secret exits).
When you enter the cannon area,
there will be a large cannon in
the area, and a world number
written below it. If you want to
warp, simply drop into the
cannon and off you go! Here is a
list of the known warp zones
thus far:

World 5 Warp #1: Take the secret
exit from the World 1 Tower.

World 5 Warp #2: Take the secret
exit from Stage 2-A.

World 6 Warp: Take the secret
exit from the World 3 Ghost
House.

World 7 Warp: Take the secret
exit from the World 4 Ghost
House.

World 8 Warp: Take the secret
exit from the World 5 Ghost
House.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  11. Credits -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

ImmortalNinja (GameFAQs boards):
For explaining where the secret
exit in Stage 2-3 is, thanks!

GameFAQs
(http://www.gamefaqs.com): For
the information on the flagpole
secrets.

Snow Dragon: For helping me out
with World 4 Ghost House's
secret exit.

SaiyaMew: For pointing out a
couple things to be added in
regard to the Spin Block and
Blue Shell items.

maynard420 and pacokorn77: For
supplying me with an alternate
method for getting the third
Star Coin in Stage 6-6.

Antony Panecasio: For giving me
an alternate way of obtaining
Star Coin #3 in the World 5
Castle!

Brandon Moore: For providing me
with that interesting easter egg
about Luigi on the title screen
intro.

Jason Orach: For sending me a
much better method for reaching
Star Coin #3 in the World 2
Tower, thanks a lot!

OorochiMaruoO: For telling me
about the two infinite 1-Up
tricks, as noted in the Secrets
section of this FAQ!

Boo Destroyer: For sending me
the official list of enemy/boss
names (I filled in the actual
descriptions for each, he just
sent me the names).

Paul Martin: For providing me
with the real method for
unlocking the fifth background
pattern to be purchased.

Matt K: For submitting a
different method for getting
through the final castle.

sketchTURNER: For sending me
another infinite 1-Up location
in Stage 7-5! I also added an
addendum to the Goomba pipe
method, in regard to doing it as
Mini Mario.

Franks2get: For a small tidbit
regarding the Blue Shell item.

Rob Dalton: For pointing out
that Luigi walks with the
Princess in the intro if you do
the "Play as Luigi" trick when
starting a new game.

Ethan Allen: For pointing out a
couple corrections to be made on
the World 1 and World 6 maps.

heffey1022: For supplying this
FAQ with the infamous Koopa
Troopa step method of gaining
1-Ups (method #4 in the Secrets
section).

Quint Stevenson: For correcting
my method for getting the 3
stars next to your file.

Justin D: For an interesting and
fun method for gaining 1-Ups in
Stage 4-1.

Jason Bissett: For pointing out
the sound effects trick on the
credits screen.

Mike Koos: For another
correction about getting
background pattern #5.

Alex Baker: For suggesting I add
a list of Mini Mushroom
locations to the FAQ, and for
providing 3 of those locations!

Steven Strell: For the method to
obtaining the item you want at
the Toad House (see the Secrets
section).

Jennifer: For the Mini Mushroom
location in Stage 7-A.

Mark Brady: For sending me the
information on accessing
Challenge Mode.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  12. Copyright Notice  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2006
Devin Morgan. All rights
reserved. Please view the
following URL to see the list of
sites that are allowed to post
my work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/
allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites
I know and trust well. If your
site is not on the
aforementioned list, you are not
currently not allowed to post
any of my files on your site. If
you wish to acquire permission,
feel free to email me (see the
section below); permission may
or may not granted at my
discretion. Please respect my
work and do not steal it or post
it without my permission. I only
want my most recent work to be
available and I do not feel that
can be achieved if others take
from me without my knowledge or
permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for
this game as well, and would
like to use some information,
contact me and we'll talk.
Please do not rip me off, as
that is blatant plagiarism and
such will not be tolerated.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  13. Contact Information -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

As of this version, the file
contains all the information I
know to date. If it is a work in
progress, give me time before
bombarding me with emails about
things being missing. All I ask
is that you READ THE FAQ before
emailing me, since that's what
it's here for! Don't waste my
time (and yours) by asking me
for information obviously
covered in the guide. If it's in
reference to a side quest or
item, chances are they can be
found in another section besides
the walkthrough, so check the
appendices as well.

If you have any questions,
comments, or things to add that
are not already in this FAQ,
feel free to email me. I usually
do post submissions, credit
given of course, so long as I
feel they are relevant to the
game in question. My email
address is:
dbmfaqs(at)gmail.com. Thanks for
reading, and be sure to check
out the rest of my work at this
URL:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features
/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=