******* *   * ***** ***** *     
*     * *   * *   * *     **    
******* *   * *   * *     * *   
*       ***** *   * ***** *  *  
*       *   * *   * *     *   * 
*       *   * *   * *     *    *
*       *   * ***** ***** *     

*    * *****   ***** ***** *   *
*    * *   *     *   *     *   *
*    * *****     *   *     *   *
*    * *   *     *   *  ** *****
*    * *   *     *   *   * *   *
* ** * *    *    *   *   * *   *
**  ** *     * ***** ***** *   *

***** ***** ***** ***** *****   
*   *   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *****   
*****   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *    *  
*   *   *     *   ***** *     * 

================================
    ~Line Test~
================================
If the following line is
readable without scrolling over,
you can easily read this
walkthrough. ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRS
TUVWXYZABCDEFGHIJKLMONPQRSTUVWXY
ZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVW

================================
   ~Introduction~
================================
Welcome readers! I'm Deathborn
668 on the message boards and
this is a walkthrough for
Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney:
Trials and Tribulations for the
Nintendo DS. Despite being a
little late to this game, I'm
still going to write a
walkthrough for this fun game.
Some Do's and Don'ts to keep in
mind: DO: -Use this walkthrough
as a refre -Tell people about it
-Print it for personal use -Give
to other people for no pro

DON'T:
-Plagerize this walkthrough with
-Call this walkthrough "yours"
-Sell this walkthrough for profi

ONLY the following sites have
permission to use this
walkthrough without the need to
contact me: -www.gamefaqs.com
-www.gamespot.com -www.ign.com

Anybody else wishing to use this
walkthrough will need to e-mail
me at someguy668 (at) yahoo
(dot) com Those wishing to leave
me comments and corrections
should also e-mail me. I
generally won't respond to
e-mails, and probably won't
update if you send me a
corrections unless it extremely
important. Don't feel offended
if I don't respond or update
with a change. Thanks for your
concern.

================================
| ~Table of Contents~ |
================================
|1.The Gyakuten Saiben Series |
|2.Controls                     
|3.Events In and Out of Court |
|4.Characters | |5.Episode
1-Turnabout Memories | | 5A.Part
1-1 Trial | | 5B.Part 1-2 Trial
| |6.Episode 2-The Stolen
Turnabout | | 6A.Part 1
Investigation | | 6B.Part 2
Trial | | 6C.Part 3
Investigation | | 6D.Part 4-1
Trial | | 6E.Part 4-2 Trial |
|7.Episode 3-Recipe for
Turnabout | | 7A.Part 1
Investigation | | 7B.Part 2
Trial | | 7C.Part 3
Investigation | | 7D.Part 4-1
Trial | | 7E.Part 4-2 Trial |
|8.Episode 4-Turnabout
Beginnings | | 8A.Part 1-1 Trial
| | 8B.Part 1-2 Trial |
|9.Episode 5-Bridge to the
Turnabout | | 9A.Part 1-1
Investigation | | 9B.Part 1-2
Investigation | | 9C.Part 2-1
Trial | | 9D.Part 2-2 Trial | |
9E.Part 3-1 Investigation | |
9F.Part 3-2 Investigation | |
9G.Part 4-1 Trial | | 9H.Part
4-2 Trial | | 9I.Part 4-3 Trial
|
|10.Credits                     
================================
Just so you know, if you need to
skip to a certain part of the
walkthrough, just hit the Ctrl
and F buttons at the same time
and type in the name of the case
you want to see. Stop bugging me
that you can't find something in
this walkthrough.

================================
 ~1.The Gyakuten Saiben Series~
================================
Phoenix Wright obviously didn't
originate in America, nor did
any other video game you've
probably played. In Japan, the
Phoenix Wright series is known
as Gyakuten Saiben. This roughly
translates into "Turnabout
Court". If you were curious why
every case is named Turnabout
____ then that is the answer.

The GS series contains four
games so far, with a fifth on
the way. The first three in the
series were actually GBA games,
and the fourth one is for the
DS. If you are curious why there
is little touch screen
interaction it is because Capcom
decided to put the GBA Gyakuten
Saiben series on the DS in
America. Not that it's a bad
thing. The title was also
changed outside of Japan, from
"Turnabout Court" to "Phoenix
Wright Ace Attorney; Trials and
Tribulations".

Several minor things also
changed during the translation
from Japan to States side.
Gyakuten Saiben takes place in
Tokyo while Phoenix Wright is
speculated to take place in Los
Angeles. Although it is not
confirmed, several notions in
the game make it apparent that
Phoenix Wright takes place in
California. Also, some pictures
within the game were switched
from Japanese inscriptions into
English. However, some Japanese
writing can still be found if
you know where to look.

Remember one last thing-Japanese
law is different than America's
law. Don't be confused under the
"guilty until proven innocent"
ordeal, it's not a big deal.
Also, this game takes place in
2018. Hence, the possibility of
these laws actually being true.

As a side note, I STILL have no
idea why the hell every picture
is in black and white. I guess
everyone's color blind in the
future or something. The fourth
game has colored pictures,
though.

================================
          ~2.Controls~
================================
The controls for Phoenix Wright
are pretty simple. You'll get
used to them quickly if you're
new to the series. To veterans,
they still haven't changed.

A button-Scroll through text
that characters are saying,
confirm option, look at details
of evidence and profiles B
button-Back out of a selection,
hold to skip through text
quickly X button-Push this when
highlighting evidence to present
it Y button-Hold this and yell
into the microphone when
presenting evidence (more fun
than just pressing the X button)

Control Pad-Scroll through all
selections L button-Press
statement (only in the
courtroom), pan screen
left/right (only during
Investigation when an area has
more than one screen. To see it
you must scroll to see the rest
by pressing L) R button-Brings
up the court record Start-Brings
up the menu to save your game

Note:Some of these controls are
only availble inside court, and
others only outside of it. Most
of them coincide, however.

================================
 ~3.Events In and Out of Court~
================================
Phoenix will have to do many
things inside and outside of the
courtroom in order to prove his
clients are innocent. Through
these events he will uncover the
truth, pick out who really did
the crime, gather evidence, and
meet many unusual characters.

----------------
Outside of Court
----------------
INVESTIGATION-This is what the
entire process outside of court
is. Phoenix will stroll around
different key areas in the city
in his investigation. Once you
have learned all the necessary
information and have retrieved
all the evidence possible, the
investigation will end and court
will begin (after the chance to
save your progress). There are
several different things you
will be able to do on your
investigations.

MOVE-Pretty self explainatory.
Phoenix will have to go to many
different locations on his
investigations. Select move to
bring up a list of places you
can visit. Note that many areas
branch off into different areas.
For example, pressing move will
bring up Area A and Area B.
However, you can only visit Area
C by moving in Area B. Don't
overlook that detail.

TALK-In many areas there will be
a person you are able to talk
to. Once you select this option,
several boxes will appear with
topics you can talk to the
person about. Once you talk to
them about said topic it will
have a red checkmark appear next
to it so you don't confuse
yourself. Many people,
especially key witnesses and
even the real killer, won't have
every topic possible to talk to
them about listed right away.
You will need to pry the options
out of them by either talking to
them about previous topics, or
get some dirt from other people
in the overworld.

Sometimes when you try talking
about a subject Psyche Locks
will appear. The subject will
then have a lock symbol next to
it. If you want to hear the
subject, you must first use the
Magatama to break the Psyche
Locks.

PRESENT-If you are infront of a
person, you can choose this to
examine the evidence you have
collected so far. From there you
can choose an item to show the
person you are talking to. If
the person tells you something
along the lines of "What is
that?", "I have no business with
that item" and so on then the
item in question isn't going to
get you anywhere with that
person. Some items, when
presented, will make the person
confess to secrets they have
been hiding. Other times they
will hand you more evidence, or
even allow you to ask them about
more topics. Don't freak out--
there's no penalty for wasting
someone's time. Present things
often if you are stuck, as it
may unlock something new for you
to continue.

EXAMINE-In every area there is a
scene. Obviously. Many of the
areas you visit will have
something odd there. Sometimes
its an item that just doesn't
fit in with the rest of the
scenery, sometimes it isn't as
obvious and you will need to
look everything over. Once
again, if you are ever out of
options, return to areas you
have visited and examine every
detail you are capable of
looking at. You may just find a
vital piece of evidence or clue
that can help you along your
way.

PSYCHE LOCKS-Partway through
case 2 you will recieve the
Magatama, a mystical item that
will alert you when people are
trying to hide secrets from you.
You can easily tell this when
you ask a witness about a
subject, then the background
grows black and a ton of chains
and locks appear over the
witness. This indicates a Psyche
Lock sequence must take place
before you learn anything else
about the subject.

To start the Magatama Secret
sequence, present the Magatama
when you see the person have
Psyche Locks over them. The more
Psyche Locks that appear on the
subject, the harder it will be
to make them reveal their
secret. During the Magatama
Secret sequence, the person will
ask you questions such as "What
connects me to this scene", "Who
should you really be defending",
like that. You'll need to
present evidence to answer their
questions. Do so correctly and
you will move on to the next
questions, possibly destroying
one or more Psyche Locks along
the way. When you've unlocked
them all, half of your health
bar will be restored and you can
ask about the hidden secret
topic now. Remember, if you
present wrong evidence you will
lose 1/10th of your health bar.
Also, sometimes you will need to
collect more evidence before you
can complete a Magatama
sequence. Don't always think you
MUST beat it on the first go,
because rarely that is ever
true.

---------------
Inside of Court
---------------
TESTIMONY-Whenever a witness is
called to the stand by the
prosecution, the witness will
recount the events specific to
the case in a testimony. Your
objective is to find parts of
the testimony that contradict
evidence you have or statements
already mentioned in the past.
You won't be able to object
here, so just pay attention
until the testimony is finished.

CROSS EXAMINATION-Phoenix, as a
defense attorney, will need to
cross examine the witnesses on
their testimonies after they
finish saying them. Your main
objective here is, of course, to
find the one mistake that the
witness places in their
testimony and expose their lies.
You can scroll through any line
of text said in the testimony,
forwards or backwards. Once you
find the spot where there is a
clear contradiction you will
need to present evidence
supporting your theory.

However, if you present the
wrong evidence or present it at
the wrong statement in the
testimony, the Judge will become
angered at your attempt to frame
the witness and penalize you. On
the top right corner of the DS
screen you should notice that
you have a health bar. More on
that in a lower paragraph.

PRESSING-On the top-left side of
the touch screen you will see a
"Press" button. During a
testimony you can press any and
all statements that the witness
says. After Phoenix yells "Hold
it!" he will question the
witness further on what they
just said. Sometimes you will
find contradictions right away
from pressing statements. This
will cause the witness to revise
that statement of the testimony.
Occasionally you will have to
make choices when pressing. The
available options appear on the
bottom screen. Usually it is
"Press further" and "Back off".

Pressing further can cause the
witness to reveal something that
will seriously benefit your
case, or completely shatter your
hopes and open mind the Judge
into coming closer to calling
the defendent Guilty. Pressing
statements will never deal you
penalties, however in a few rare
circumstances they actually
will. In these cases you will be
warned beforehand that you will
get penalized. Don't play with
fire if you can't afford to be
burned.

PRESENTING-The most important
part of your cross examination
is presenting the right evidence
to expose the lies thrown in the
witness' testimonies. Push R or
tap the Court Record button to
bring up the Court Record. Here
is where all the evidence and
important info for the case is
kept. Push the Profiles button
to see a bio on everybody
currently involved in the case.
When you select a piece of
evidence you wish to present,
highlight it and press the
Present button of push the X
button. Phoenix will yell his
famous "OBJECTION!" line, or in
some cases "TAKE THAT!". During
testimonies, you will know you
presented the right evidence if
the music stops playing. If it
continues, expect to be
penalized.

Presenting wrong evidence is
another story, though. During
cross examinations, if you
present wrong evidence, you will
always lose 1/5th of your health
bar. Sometimes after you object,
or when you select certain
options, the Judge or the
Prosecutor will ask you to back
up your bold claims with
evidence. These sections will
usually cost more of your health
bar if incorrect, sometimes up
to 1/2 of it, and in a few rare
sections, the entire health bar
itself. Instant game over if you
fail. Try to avoid many
mistakes!

HEALTH BAR-Trials and
Tribulations keeps the health
bar that made its appearence in
the previous game. The health
bar is split into ten segments.
If you lose all of your health,
it's an instant game over when
you are in court. You can lose
health outside of court as well
through Magatama sequences. If
you lose all of your health
outside of court, nothing major
happens, but you will be forced
to repeat the Magatama sequence
you failed. You can lose health
a variety of ways in court. If
you present wrong evidence, you
lose 2/10ths health.

Whenever you are asked to backup
a statement, presenting wrong
evidence will take off health as
well, usually between 1-3 pieces
of it. Worst of all, you can't
refill the bar normally. You
will restore five segments when
you complete a Magatama
sequence. Basically, don't screw
yourself in court. You're not
getting health back at any time
you are in court.

================================
         ~4.Characters~
================================
~NOTE! This section contains
some spoilers for the cases!~

Trials and Tribulations has a
wide variety of wierd and wacky
characters, along with a few
(insane) killers. Several of
these characters you should
already know from playing the
previous Phoenix Wrights, and
the rest you will meet along the
way in your cases. Most of them
have an important background
that will usually get called to
attention in court, so keep them
in mind!

Phoenix Wright-The main
character and Ace Attorney
himself, Phoenix has earned his
status by clearing his clients
from seemingly impossible cases,
as well as defeating Edgeworth,
Manfred von Karma, and his
daughter Franziska, in previous
court battles. He has won every
case, except for the one case in
Justice For All when he was
defending Matt Engarde. Known
best for his spiky hair, most of
Phoenix's friends refer to him
as "Nick", a play on the last
few letters of his name.

Maya Fey-Maya is Mia's little
sister. She started to accompany
Phoenix on his cases soon after
Mia died in the first game. She
continues to help out Phoenix by
acting as his assistant manager
of Wright & Co. Law Offices.
Maya is also a spirit medium,
capable of channeling the
spirits of the dead into her own
body. She does this often to
channel Mia for her to talk to
Phoenix.

Pearl Fey-The cousin of Maya.
She is a spirit medium as well,
occasionally channeling Mia for
Phoenix. She's very young, and
hasn't had much public contact,
so she often gets the wrong
impression of many things, as
well as her opinions being
easily swayed.

Mia Fey-Mia was Phoenix's mentor
until she was brutally killed in
the first game. Since then she
has made appearences in Maya's
body when the case is near
impossible for Phoenix. She will
appear again quite often in
Trials and Tribulations, this
time in Pearl's body more often
then Maya's. She tends to be
helpful on some testimonies,
though, so it's not all bad.

Miles Edgeworth-A veteran
prosecutor. Him, Phoenix, and
Larry were friends back in the
fourth grade, but an indident
forced Edgeworth to move away.
Determined to find him, Phoenix
became a defense attorney to
hopefully face off against him
in court. Edgeworth hasn't been
getting much action as of late,
but you will see him in his
first case in 3-4.

Franziska von Karma-This
prosecutor had a perfect win
record until she went against
Phoenix in the previous game.
She still has a taste for
revenge, against both Phoenix
and Edgeworth. Enjoys whipping
people.

Detective Dick Gumshoe-Making
another return from the past
games, Detective Gumshoe is back
again. His main purpose on the
police first is, naturally, to
investigate the case. Gumshoe
isn't the smartest brick on the
block, though, often making
small errors in his work and
leaving small details out of
important descriptions. Despite
this, he's an awesome character,
and usually is the first one to
speak in court, by giving the
brief overview of the case.
You'll grow to love Gumshoe if
you haven't already played the
previous games.

Godot-A mysterious prosecutor
that seems to have appeared out
of nowhere. Nothing is known
about him or his background,
except that he has a severe
grudge against Phoenix and
drinks coffee. Lots of coffee.
He loves coffee more than just
about anything.

The Judge-The head of the
courtroom. Despite his opinions
being easily swayed by the
prosecution and cute witnesses,
he always seems to pick the
right verdict in the end.

Marvin Grossberg-A defense
attorney and Mia's mentor five
years ago. Head of Grossberg Law
Offices. He advises Mia on her
second case.

Winston Payne-Veteran
prosecutor, known as the "Rookie
Crusher" for all of the new
defense attorneys that he has
defeated.

Dahlia Hawthorne-Phoenix's
girlfriend several years ago. Is
quite charming, even when
testifying.

Doug Swallow-Fourth year
Pharmacology student at Ivy
University before being killed
by electrocution.

Luke Atmey-An Ace Detective, and
has been trailing Mask
DeMasque's identity for some
time.

Mask DeMasque-A mysterious
robber who has yet to be caught.
Sends a calling card, detailing
the item has plans on stealing.

Ron DeLite-A former security
guard at KB Security. Seems to
easily get frightened.

Desiree DeLite-Ron DeLite's
wife. Loves motorcycles and
spending money that Ron makes
above anything else.

Larry Butz-Phoenix's grade
school friend, and his very
first client. Becomes a security
guard in case 2, and a painter
in case 5.

Kane Bullard-The CEO of KB
Security, a business that
manages security for many other
companies that desire it.

Maggey Byrde-Currently a
waitress at Tres Bien. She was
your client in case 2-1.

Jean Armstrong-The man who runs
the French restaurant Tres Bien.
Keeps referring to himself as a
woman.

Victor Kudo-A grumpy old man who
whacks birds with his seeds. Has
a thing for waitress outfits.

Glen Elg-An incredible
programmer. He was killed by
coffee poisoning.

Lisa Basil-Head of Blue Screens,
Inc., the company Glen worked
for.

Furio Tigre-The manager of
Tender Lender, a company that
loans money to others with an
absurd interest rate.

Viola Cadaverini-The daughter of
a mafia boss, also an employee
of Tender Lender. Furio Tigre
saved her life.

Bruto Cadaverini-A mafia boss
who cares deeply for his
daughter, Viola.

Diego Armando-A coffee loving
defense attorney who works for
Grossberg. Seems to like Mia and
has an uncanny resemblence to
Godot.

Valerie Hawthorne-A detective
who witnessed Terry Fawles
kidnap her sister, and then kill
her.

Terry Fawles-A prisoner escapee
who was sentenced to death five
years ago. Convicted of killing
Valerie Hawthorne.

Melissa Foster-A sweet young
girl who has a strikingly
similar appearance to Dahlia.

Bikini-The head nun at Hazakura
Temple who looks over all the
training of acolytes.

Iris-A nun at Hazakura Temple.
She looks exactly like Dahlia.

Elise Deauxnim-A children's book
author who is visiting Hazakura
Temple.

Morgan Fey-A woman who has been
put into solitary confinement
for nearly killing Maya.

================================
~5.Episode 1-Turnabout Memories~
================================
Turn on the game and begin the
first episode of the game. In
the intro sequence, a man will
be found lying on the ground,
and another is standing,
questioning how he got here. As
the screen shifts, the supposed
killer is, uh, Phoenix Wright?

You'll be told that this event
happened five years ago, and
that this is Mia Fey's second
trial.

================================
      ~5A.Part 1-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-April 11, 9:40 AM Location-
District Court; Defendent Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Marvin Grossberg will appear as
Mia mentally preps herself. Mia
still seems nervous about the
trial ongoing today. Mia says
she hasn't exactly been studying
the facts of the case. Poor
rookie. Your client, Phoenix
Wright, will appear. He has a
cold, so try to ignore the face
mask he's wearing to prevent
others from getting sick.

Mia will comment about herself,
mentioning that she was in court
another time one year ago. She
says that she lost her first
case, and is determined more
than ever to win this one.

If you're new to the Phoenix
Wright series, note the Court
Record button. Press it, or tap
the R button, to open up all of
the evidence that you have
collected. All that's here now
is your Attorney's Badge and the
Autopsy Report. Remember that
the cause of death of Doug
Swallows was that he was
electricuted. Never let any
piece of evidence go unnoticed!
After Mia talks with Phoenix,
you'll head to court.

--------------------------------
Date-April 11, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
As the trial begins, you'll note
you are up against the famed
first-case prosecutor Payne.
This time, sporting a green suit
and hair. Or a toupee. After Mia
hopelessly tries to explain why
she's handling this case, and
Payne complains Mia is too
inexperienced for this case.

The incident of the crime
occurred on the campus of Ivy
University. The murder victim
was Doug Swallow, a fourth year
student in Pharmacology. Next,
there is a picture of the crime
scene. It shows Swallow lying
dead on the ground, several
electric cable wires hanging
above his head. The picture was
taken when students discovered
his body shortly after the
murder. Phoenix Wright was seen
fleeing the crime thereafter.
CRIME PHOTO 1 will be added to
the Court Record.

The Judge can't tell the cause
of death from the photo. Payne
will ask you to tell the court
the cause of death. Choose
"Electrocution" after Grossberg
explains how to open up the
Court Record. Another problem of
this case is motive. Doug
Swallow and and Phoenix didn't
quite get along well. The Judge
will ask you for evidence
supporting the hatred between
Phoenix and Doug.

Remember, if you didn't play
Justice For All or you forgot,
that people's profiles can be
presented. Present Dahlia
Hawthorne's profile. Dahlia is
Phoenix's girlfriend, yet was
Doug's girlfriend several months
back. Payne will call Phoenix
Wright as his first witness. You
will now watch Phoenix testify.
Oh, and Grossberg talks about
hemorrhoids constantly. Most
people also find that wierd.

--------------------------------
~Phoenix Wright's Testimony-The
Victim and I~
--------------------------------
-Um, I...I admit I was there.

-But I'm not a killer! All I did

-I hardly knew they guy to begin

-I never even talked to that stu

Grossberg explains to you that
you must find contradictions in
the testimony and expose their
lies. Remember, you can also
Press statements for more
information. To get on with the
testimony, start by pressing
Phoenix's last statement. His
third statement contradicts his
fourth statement right away.
Phoenix stammers, then adds a
fifth statement:

-He was always walking around wi
shirt.

Press the new statement to learn
that Phoenix saw the Union Jack
at the crime scene, explaining
how he knows Doug likes British
stuff. Grossberg will agree with
Mia in thinking that there is a
contradiction here. Present
Crime Photo 1 at this statement.
If you looked at the picture in
detail, there is no such picture
on Doug's back.

Phoenix says that the Union Jack
was on his t-shirt, which his
lether jacket was covering.
Well, this means that Doug has
met Phoenix somewhere before the
crime took place. Payne now
comments what kind of medicine
Phoenix has been taking. He then
goes on to ask if it was
Coldkiller X, and Phoenix agrees
that he has been using it.

Phoenix also notes that he lost
his medicine somewhere. Looking
back at the crime photo, the
medicine was in the victim's
hand. Phoenix's fingerprints
were found all over this bottle
as well. Doug probably grabbed
the bottle to indicate that it
was Phoenix who killed him.
After these comments, CRIME
PHOTO 2 and COLDKILLER X will be
added to the Court Record.

Doug's watch also stopped
operating when a surge of
electricity ran through it. Now
Phoenix will testify again about
what really happened that day.

--------------------------------
~Phoenix Wright's Testimony-What
Really Happened~
--------------------------------
-The truth is...I went because h

-He was in the Pharmacology Dept
building...

-We talked for a bit, and then a

-Then later, when I went back, I

-I'd been talking Coldkiller X f

-But I lost my bottle of it arou

The main information you need
right now is in the second
statement. Press it to find out
that Doug arranged the time they
would meet. Doug was studying
how to make medicine at that
point. He was one of the
brightest in his department. It
also turns out that Doug has
some sort of laboratory, which
made Phoenix pretty suspicous of
Doug's workings. When Mia asks
herself what to do, choose to
ask "About Pharmacology Dept.".
Phoenix admits he doesn't know
much, but Mia says that he said
a lot of these machines took a
lot of electricity to run.

This means that electrical
cables were hanging all around
the building, and wasn't Doug's
cause of death electricution?
From a cable wire? Press the
fifth statement to learn that
most people were aware Phoenix
was taking Coldkiller X. Now,
press the final statement.
Phoenix was eating with Dahlia
that day at lunch. However,
before you can squeeze more
information out of Phoenix, the
Judge calls an end to this
boring testimony.

The Judge says that between him
losing the medicine, meeting
with Doug, and then stumbling
onto the crime scene, there is
no way he can be trusted. There
is one last problem the Judge
has--how the murder was carried
out. You will be asked if you
can present how this murder was
started. Choose "Establish
murder method". The Judge will
now demand some evidence that
proves Doug Swallow was
electrocuted.

Like I said earlier, there were
disconnected cable lines above
Doug's head when he was lying on
the ground. Present Crime Photo
1. The Judge still doesn't
understand where you are going
with this series of statements.
Now you will need to point to
the spark on the cable line
above Doug. When you present
that, Payne and the Judge agree
that what you said is most
plausable, but...

The only person who was able to
use the cables as a murder
weapon would be Phoenix. Now
Payne has some proof that will
pin the murder on Phoenix. His
fingerprints were on the bottle
of Coldkiller X, no? Doug was
wearing a lether jacket in the
crime photo, and Phoenix's hand
was firmly found on the chest
area of the jacket. The only
reason that would be there is if
Phoenix was intending to murder
Doug.

After some more hemorrhoid talk,
the Judge is just about ready to
hand down his verdict. Mia
interrupts, demanding the truth
from Phoenix. Phoenix admits
that he did shove him, when Doug
was bad mouthing Dahlia's
relationship with Phoenix.
Phoenix will testify one more
time in an attempt to prove his
innocence.

--------------------------------
~Phoenix Wright's Testimony-When
I Pushed The Victim~
--------------------------------
-That guy...He was talking bad a

-I lost my temper and gave him a

-At that moment, I heard some ki

-A little while after I left, I 

-So I went back. But h-he was ju

The Judge warns you not to screw
this up, or Phoenix is guilty.
Phoenix also says that when he
shoved Doug that there were no
electrical cables around. The
only statement that will give
you anything new is the third,
so press it. Payne thinks that
the loud noise Phoenix heard was
Doug being electrocuted. Choose
to "Ask for more details".
Phoenix states that Doug was
holding an umbrella, dropping it
when shoved. Doug must have
fallen on top of the umbrella,
snapping it. The Judge will ask
if any of this is relevent to
the case. Choose "Of course it's
important!". The following
statement is added to the
testimony:

-After I shoved him, he...He fel

Press this new statement.
Phoenix says he planned on
borrowing the umbrella if he
didn't fall on top of it.
However, there's something wrong
with this statement. Look at
Crime Photo 1 and you'll see the
umbrella actually landed further
from his head, not under his
body. Present Crime Photo 1 at
this statement.

This poses a problem. How did
the umbrella actually land
further away from Doug when
Phoenix was sure it landed under
him? Mia comes up with the
possibility that Doug moved the
umbrella from where he fell.
This means that he was alive
shortly after being pushed by
Phoenix. The Judge orders that
the umbrella be used as
evidence. UMBRELLA will be added
to the Court Record.

Payne objects, saying the wind
could have pushed it, but that's
an impossibility if the umbrella
was under Doug to begin with.
Well, some doubt has been left
in the air against Phoenix.
PHOENIX'S TESTIMONY will be
added to the Court Record.

Well, turns out Payne actually
has a second witness. It's none
other than Dahlia Hawthorne.
Turns out she was at the scene
of the crime when the murder
took place. The Judge will call
a recess for the new witness to
be brought in.

--------------------------------
Date-April 11, 11:42 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendent Lobby No. 3
--------------------------------
Phoenix meets up with you during
the break. He thinks that Dahlia
will be able to get Phoenix out
of this hole, but Mia and
Grossberg think otherwise. As it
turns out, Phoenix met Dahlia in
this courthouse about eight
months ago. Phoenix is also
studying to be a lawyer, but you
probably knew that. They ran
into each other in the reading
room, and have been together
since.

Dahlia also gave Phoenix a gift
as a sign of their love. It's a
small necklace with a heart at
the bottom, and around the top
of the heart is a small vial.
DAHLIA'S PRESENT will be added
to the Court Record. Phoenix
then goes on to say that
whenever they go on dates,
Dahlia constantly pesters
Phoenix to give the necklace
back to her.

Mia then asks if it was on
August 27th that the two of them
met. Mia shows a newspaper
clipping of an event occurring
on the same date. Turns out a
murder occurred in this
courthouse on the same day. Mia
must have taken this case due to
the relationship between the
events eight months ago and the
ones going on right now.
NEWSPAPER CLIPPING will be added
to the Court Record.

If you check the article
yourself, it says that a 19-year
old college student was sitting
with the victim. Huh, wonder who
that might be? Grossberg heads
off to the reading room to find
anything else out, and it
appears that something else
might be spreading. Just who is
the girl in the article, and
what relevence does it have to
the case?

You don't have time to ponder
such questions as court
continues. Save the game when
prompted.

================================
      ~5B.Part 1-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-April 11, 12:13 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Well, no Grossberg this time, so
less talk of hemorrhoids. Dahlia
Hawthorne will be called to the
stand. She's an odd lady, as it
appears. She seems sincere, but
the Judge still has some doubts
about her before judgement is
passed. Ignoring the Judge and
Payne acting up against Dahlia,
and you'll probably get
suspicious at her kindness act.

Then she says there's no way
Phoenix could have done it.
Well, enough of that. Time for
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-
What I Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-I had been planning to go back 

-Feenie and Dougie...They were t

-Then suddenly...Dougie got all 

-That's when Feenie noticed that

-I went to go and find some othe

Before the cross examination, it
turns out that Dahlia and Mia
have met somewhere before. Hmm.
Anyway, the contradiction should
be fairly obvious, much like how
Mia pointed out to herself.
Press the third statement.
Something isn't right about it.
Dahlia says that Doug just fell
on his own, nobody else touching
him. Now you will need to choose
"Show contradiction".

After a little glaring at Payne,
Mia will say that Phoenix's palm
print was found on Doug's
jacket. It has already been
proven that Phoenix hit Doug at
some point. Now Dahlia will add
the following two statements to
her testimony:

-Um, actually, I didn't see the 

-It didn't look like they were f
either.

At the second of the new
statements, press. Dahlia says
she didn't see or hear anything
out of the ordinary. However,
this is all incorrect. Present
Phoenix's Testimony at this
statement. Phoenix states
earlier that there was a loud
noise after shoving Doug onto
the ground. So, why didn't
Dahlia hear the noise?

There isn't any logical reason
as to why it wasn't heard.
Dahlia, though, says she was
wearing headphones and listening
to music during the events.
She's afraid of thunder, so she
started listening to music to
block it all out. Mia will now
think that there could be
something that she just said
that changes this entire case.
Choose "There was lightning.".

Lightning, as you know, is pure
electricity. Doug died from an
electric shock. Thusly, it's
entirely possible that Doug was
hit by lightning, making his
death entirely accidental. If
that were true, then he wouldn't
have been necessarily murdered.
Sadly, Payne has been doing his
research as well. Turns out
there weren't any lightning
strikes at all on that day.

What's worse, the fallen
electrical cable is most
certainly linked to this case.
He now presents some evidence in
the form of an affidavit. This
affidavit is from the
Pharmacology students who were
conducting their experiments in
their labs on the day of the
murder. They had their own
testimony of events. Turns out,
all of the equipment in the lab
lost power at about 3:00 PM that
day.

Remember that everything in the
lab runs on high-voltage. The
broken high- voltage cable line
is to blame for these events.
The blackout and the time of
death all coincide at the same
time--3:00. Thusly, there is no
other way that Doug could have
been killed. It must have been
from the electric shock. The
cables are also revealed now to
be very brittle and were keen to
being broken at almost any time
from a slight touch. STUDENTS'
TESTIMONY will be added to the
Court Record.

The Judge will now ask for your
thoughts about the severed
cable. You will need to present
something that caused the cable
to break. Present, even though
it seems to hurt you, Phoenix's
profile. Recall, during
Phoenix's testimony, that he
heard a sharp noise after
pushing Doug. Facing this,
Phoenix is the one who caused
the lab to lose power, possibly
killing Doug in the process.

Mia now says that the umbrella
landed near the electrical pole.
The sharp noise was actually
Doug crashing into the pole,
causing it to break. However,
Doug still wasn't electrocuted
after that. If he crashed into
the pole in the back, there's no
way that he was electrocuted
from the cable far from the
pole. Thusly, someone other than
Phoenix must have electrocuted
Doug.

Dahlia now realizes that she
remembers things slightly
differently than what we just
tried to prove. Dahlia will now
testify further on what is going
on here.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-
What I Witnessed, Part 2~
--------------------------------
-The truth is...Feenie pushed hi

-The first time was into the ele

-Then Dougie tried his best to r

-But Feenie caught up and crashe

-The cable snapping, and Dougie 
than a minute.

Press the final statement.
Dahlia never actually saw the
moment where Doug was
electrocuted. In any case, this
statement still has a
contradiction in it. At this
statement, present Crime Photo
2. If you ever turned your DS
upsidedown to look at the time
on the watch when it stopped
working, you may have noticed
that it was at about 3:05 PM.

Remember, it stopped when he was
electrocuted. Thusly, there is a
huge ten minute difference
between when Doug was
electrocuted and when the power
went out in the science labs.
Perhaps it was during this
interval that the real murderer
killed Doug. Payne and the Judge
demand to know who could be the
only other possible suspect for
this murder.

Present Dahlia Hawthorne's
profile. There was a ten minute
gap between the power outage and
the murder, and Dahlia was there
the entire time. She clearly had
something to do with these
events. After Phoenix pushed
Doug onto the ground and left,
it was Dahlia who pushed Doug to
his own death.

Dahlia continues to deny
everything, and then Phoenix
comes in. He says there is no
way Dahlia could possibly kill
someone. Ah well. Can't stop us
now. Grossberg will return,
after finding the police report
on the murder incident in this
courthouse. POLICE REPORT will
be added to the Court Record.

I advise you read these papers
for the upcoming testimonies. A
man by the name of Diego Armando
was poisoned to death due to
some form of poison entering his
coffee. The suspect, Dahlia
Hawthorne, could not be
convicted due to lack of
evidence on her, or any form of
poison near her. This seems
quite suspicious, right?
Grossberg also hints that Diego
was Mia's boyfriend.

At any rate, Dahlia still denies
that she murdered Doug and
pinned the whole thing on
Phoenix. Still, there would need
to be some motive for her to
kill Doug. It seems odd that on
the day of the murder in the
courthouse, Phoenix and Dahlia
just happen to meet up. Mia
demands testimony about that day
her and Phoenix met each other.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-
How I Met My Feenie~
--------------------------------
-I first met my darling Feenie e

-It's like we were destined to m
reading room.

-The moment our eyes met, my hea

-We've been going out ever since

The only way to win this case
now is to expose her lies. Start
off by pressing the second
statement. Phoenix was also
planning on becoming a lawyer,
so it isn't at all odd that he
would be in the reading room of
a courthouse. However, what was
Dahlia doing there? Payne asks
if this has anything to do with
the current case. Choose "Keep
pressing". Dahlie will now add a
new line of testimony:

-I had come to this courthouse t
writing.

Press this new statement.
Towards the end, Grossberg will
remind you of the Police Report
he handed you. Hopefully you
ended up checking it. If you
did, the answer should now be
fairly obvious. Present the
Police Report at this new
statement. She didn't come here
to do some research. Instead,
she was here to meet up with
Diego Armando. The suspect in
that case was, naturally,
Dahlia.

What does this all mean? It
means the the crime right now
and the crime that occurred
eight months ago have a
connection--that being, Dahlia
is a prime suspect. She will now
give one last testimony about
the events that occurred eight
months ago.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-
The Poisoning~
--------------------------------
-I met the lawyer who was poison
that day.

-I left my seat for a moment, an

-From what I heard, it was a liq
teaspoons.

-Not only that, I heard it was a

-So you see, I'm innocent! I wou
that!

The contradiction here is tough
to find out. Press the final
statement. Dahlia couldn't be
arrested because nobody could
prove how she could even get
poison like that. Well, you
might now some kind of idea. At
the final statement, present
Doug's profile. After all, Doug
worked in a pharmacology lab, so
he had access to all sorts of
chemicals, including ones that
could kill other people. Thusly,
it is possible Dahlia could have
obtained some poison one day.

So, if she had poison, all she
needed to do was slip it into
Diego's coffee, and he was as
good as dead. Since she was the
only one with him, only Dahlia
could have done the poisoning.
In order to carry 2 teaspoons of
poison, some container would be
needed. You will need to show
something that she had prooving
she had a container to use and
one that was thrown away none
less. Present Dahlia's Present.

The small necklace has a bottle
on it, after all, and it did
belong to Dahlia. She had to get
rid of it somehow, so she gave
it to Phoenix Wright, a person
who had no connection to that
case. The poison was given to
Phoenix, unknowingly to him, as
a present. Dahlia gave Phoenix
the necklace for the sole
purpose of hiding the one piece
of evidence that would give her
away. There isn't any poison in
the bottle at the moment, but
there could be a small amount
left over.

Phoenix appears again, objecting
to this nonsense. He still won't
let her go since he's in love
with Dahlia. Now you must answer
why Dahlia has been dating
Phoenix for so long. Answer
"because of the necklace.". She
has been dating him only because
she wants the necklace back so
badly. Remember, Phoenix said
himself that Dahlia keeps asking
for it back.

The necklace proves her crime,
explaining why she needed it
back. What's worse, Phoenix
showed it off everywhere she
went. Well, Phoenix goes insane
now, stealing the necklace and
then running away from the
courtroom. He doesn't get far
before the bailiff brings him
back in. Phoenix must have
grabbed the necklace when he
slammed into Mia.

When Phoenix returns to the
witness stand, he says that he
ate the necklace. What? Damn
that fool! He had to chew it up,
but he was able to swallow the
whole thing. Now Phoenix starts
to feel bad, probably because
the bottle still had some poison
left in it.

Oh, false alarm. Turns out
Phoenix is still alive. Payne
agrues that there is still no
way that there could have been
poison in that bottle. Sadly,
since you have no evidence to
prove that there was poison in
the bottle, then there is no way
that the trial can continue like
this. Phoenix goes on to stop
the trial briefly, saying that
when he met Doug, he told
Phoenix that she had stolen
poison from their lab. The exact
same thing happened eight months
ago. Dahlia also came to the lab
that time. That is when Phoenix
shoved Doug, out of anger at his
accusations of Dahlia.

Phoenix came back to Doug after
he pushed him, finding Dahlia
there when he did. Phoenix
admits that Dahlia told him
never to tell anybody about that
event. Now there is only one
conclusion--Dahlia stole some
poison the night before she
killed Doug. Her motive for
stealing it was to kill someone.

Now the Judge asks you who
Dahlia was planning to kill with
the poison. Present none other
than Phoenix's profile. Yup,
Phoenix was damn lucky she did
go after him right away. Phoenix
was originally targetted to be
poisoned. Dahlia never was in
love with Phoenix. All she
wanted to do was get back the
necklace that she gave to him
eight months ago.

At that time, all Dahlia wanted
to do was get rid of the
necklace. She had to pin it on
some guy who wouldn't be
suspicious. The only problem
with this was that Phoenix
refused to hand back the
necklace. It was Phoenix's
treasured possession, and would
never give it back. Dahlia then
tried to kill Phoenix recently
to get the bottle back.

Dahlia then comes in, angry at
Phoenix for being useless at
everything. She then challenges
you to present some evidence
that she was planning to kill
Phoenix. Present the Coldkiller
X bottle. The contents of the
bottle have been poisoned.
Phoenix said earlier that his
bottle was lost. Dahlia took his
bottle at lunch, went to the
pharacology lab, and inserted
poison into the bottle, all
knowing that Phoenix would use
it.

Eight months ago she gave the
poison to Phoenix Wright. She
pulled the same thing today.
When Phoenix left the crime
scene, Dahlia appeared. She was
hearing the conversation the two
were having, and realized that
since Doug knew she was stealing
poison, Dahlia had to dispose of
Doug. She used to severed cable
lines to kill him.

But, Phoenix later came back to
check up on Doug. Students also
showed up to check out what was
going on. Dahlia knew that if
she was searched again, the
poisoned bottle would link her
to the crime from eight months
ago. Thusly, she made Doug hold
the bottle.

Dahlia still denies your claims,
and so when asked to take the
medicine in the Coldkiller X
bottle, Well, that was...boring.
Dahlia gives up and claims that
you have won this battle. She is
certain that the both of you
will meet up again.

Sweet. Mia actually won this
trial. Right before the verdict,
Payne's hair flies off in
complete disbelief. Not really
sure how that logically works
out, but it explains his
baldness in the previous games.
Phoenix Wright is proclaimed Not
Guilty, and trial is over.

--------------------------------
Date-April 11, 3:16 PM Location-
District Court; Defendent Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Phoenix
after the trial, and he is
pretty sure that the Dahlia who
was testifying wasn't really
her. He then states again that
he's studying to become a
defense lawyer. Phoenix hopes
that they see each other in
court again. How ironic that
they do several years later.
Hell, they are even partners at
that time.

Then you get a little speech
from Phoenix. Turns out he was
just recalling all of these
events. He became a lawyer and
managed to save his friend
(Larry I'm guessing?), yet Mia
isn't here any longer. After
some thoughts from Mia as well,
the episode will finally come to
an end.

================================
    ~6.Episode 2-The Stolen Turn
================================
It's 1 in the morning. A safe
can be seen, with a detective
nearby, whose silhouette looks
strikingly similar to Gumshoe's.
The safe is then opened to
ensure that a priceless jewel is
still concealed in there, but
once it has been opened, all
that can be found is something
that looks like a calling card,
reading "Mask DeMasque". The
criminal escapes into the sky,
traveling towards the full moon.
What the hell is going on?

================================
   ~6A.Part 1 Investigation~
================================

--------------------------------
Date-October 11, 3:24 PM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya appears whilst Phoenix is
busy...scrubbing the toilet.
Maya says something about
hitting the big time, but
instead of involving Phoenix, it
involves Pearl, who I'm sure you
remember from the last game.
Pearl will hand you a
promotional poster for a
treasure exhibition, and this
one is featuring artifacts from
the Kurain Village, with the
main item appearing to be the
cracked vase from case 2-2 that
Pearl broke. It still clearly
looks broken, and nobody paid
any notice to the fact it should
read "AMI" and not "I AM".

Pearl and Maya got some VIP
passes to the exhibit for
tonight, despite it being
publically open next week. Looks
like we're going to an art
exhibit. Sounds...exciting.

For all of the new players, Maya
and Pearl Fey's bio's will be
explained by Phoenix. Maya has
been assistant manager here for
a while, while Pearl still
remains the cute girl who get's
herself unknowingly into
trouble. But she's cute, so it's
ignorable, right? Once you learn
that both of them are still
spirit mediums, the TREASURE
EXHIBIT POSTER will be added to
the Court Record. You'll see the
Magatama in here as well. That
explains why we still have the
crappy health bar system.

You'll now move to the exhibit
location.

--------------------------------
Date-October 11, 7:18 PM
Location-Lordly Tailor; Main
Exhibit Hall
--------------------------------
This place is the city's
greatest department store. Once
you screen opens up, you'll note
it sure looks like one. Pearl
and Maya seem quite excited over
the exhibit. Not sure why--it's
just stuff from their hometown
being displayed in cases.

Well, Maya comments that the
person in charge of all this is
waiting in the basement
warehouse for you guys. Examine
if you wish, but there's nothing
important here. Move to the
Basement Warehouse.

--------------------------------
Date-October 11 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Basement Warehouse
--------------------------------
This area sure looks dank and
creepy. Before you can do
anything, someone greets you.
It's none other than Adrian
Andrews from case 2-4 in the
last game. How great to see her,
I guess. She is in charge of the
promotion and planning for the
exhibit, as well as the security
for it. She mentions that all of
the valuable items are still
stored in this warehouse.

Talk to her about "Adrian
Andrews". Andrews and Maya will
recount their tales from the
Nickel Samurai case, and you'll
learn she quit her old job to
take up this one. Now ask about
"Lordly Tailor". She mentions
that the warehouse is well
protected.

Switch to the right side of the
screen first by pressing L or
the arrow button at the bottom
of the screen. Right away a
large golden statue should stand
out at you. Examine this to find
it's a statue of Ami Fey. It
just arrived this morning. AMI
FEY'S GOLDEN STATUE will be
added to the court record.

The statue is also holding a
Shichishito, a ceremonial sword.
It isn't actually designed to be
a weapon, so the end isn't very
sharp. Before you can do
anything else, Andrews escorts
all of you to dinner. You'll
wind up back at the office.

Phoenix will comment that the
dinner was nice, but that
something terrible and
unpredictible would happen the
next day.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12, 10:09 AM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya and Pearl will arrive just
as Phoenix is cleaning the
toilet again. They hurredly turn
on the TV to a news bulletin
that renowned treasure thief,
Mask DeMasque, who stole
something from Lordly Tailor.
Mask Demaskque ended up stealing
the sacred Kurain Urn. Talk to
Maya about the "Sacred Urn".
Maya will show you the promo
poster again to remind you what
the urn looks like. Maya will
then comment that the urn no
longer has "Ami" writted on it,
but instead "I am".

Best not to tell Maya that was
Pearl's doing. The SACRED URN
will be added to the Court
Record. Now ask about "What to
do". Pearl exclaims that you
need to find the guy who stole
the urn and bring him to
justice. Not sure how we should
get a start on it, but Pearl is
all worked up on the idea.

Now ask about "Last year's
incident". You'll recount on the
murder in Kurain Village from
last year, and how the vase
ended up with "I AM" on it.
Funny how nobody ever noticed
it. With this info in hand, move
to the Main Exhibition Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Main Exhibition Hall
--------------------------------
Well, the main hall looks
exactly the same. You'd think
Mask DeMasque would have stolen
more than one thing. Crappy
thief. Before you can start to
examine the place, Detective
Gumshoe arrives on the scene.
After a little exchange of anger
messages between Gumshoe and
Phoenix, talk to him about "What
happened". He recounts that the
thief stole the Sacred Urn, and
that the crime occurred last
night at around 1:30 in the
morning. The time was around
that because a security guard
called in and reported the urn
was stolen.

The urn was kept in the basement
warehouse. He mentions someone
who thinks they are an Ace
Detective. Ask about "Mask
DeMasque" now. It appears this
thief is quite famous, known
well for his many disguises. He
only goes after the rarest works
of art, and the urn has been the
fifth thing he has stolen.
Sadly, since Lordly Tailor
didn't cooperate, Gumshoe
couldn't catch DeMasque this
time. DeMasque sends out a
calling card before each heist.

As about "Ace Detective". This
guy that Gumshoe refers to was
able to get the fourth stolen
object back in right possession,
As it turns out, he is at the
scene of the crime looking for
clues. Perhaps we will see him
later.

Finally, ask about the "Calling
card". It turns out to be a
small green card with his
signiture emblem inscribed onto
it. The only way the calling
card can be determined as
genuine is if it has that mark.
CALLING CARD will be added to
the Court Record. Like Gumshoe
says, if you checked the Calling
Card yourself, Mask DeMasque
really does notify the people
he's stealing from ahead of
time. That's really weird. Head
to the Basement Warehouse.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Basement Warehouse
--------------------------------
As soon as you enter the
warehouse again, a mysterious
man will greet you. Turns out
that this guy is quite good at
figuring out complete obscure
things about people (and is good
at insulting them to boot!). He
is Luke Atmey. What a subtle
pun. He also mentions that he is
the ace detective that Gumshoe
was referring to.

What a strange man. Talk to him
about "Ace Detective". Yeah,
he's really the best of the
best. He even goes as far as to
call himself the arch-enemy of
Mask DeMasque. He's been tailing
DeMasque ever since his first
crime, returning the Portrait of
Mejeena after one such heist.
Though, by the way he speaks, he
doesn't seem as great as his
stories make him seem.

Ask about "Mask DeMasque" now.
Atmey and DeMasque has a battle
in the warehouse yesterday, but
allowed him to get away. Um,
well, ask about "The night of
the crime" now. Atmey was
requested for his services by
Lordly Tailor, and it was only
ten days ago that DeMasque's
calling card came. Adrian, of
course, hired him. Atmey tried
setting a trap for when DeMasque
was to arrive, and waited for
him alone. Seems like Atmey
enjoys waiting alone, out of
sight from others.

Nobody came through the entrance
of the warehouse, like he
expected. But, the Sacred Urn
still disappeared. So, despite
nobody showing up, the urn is
still missing. Like Pearl and
Phoenix think, this is just a
load of crap. Atmey is hiding
something. You will need to
examine a few things before
going on, but Atmey will stop
you from examining. To gain
access, present the Calling Card
to him. Atmey says now that he
will allow you access to examine
the area as he investigates
elsewhere (good thing--I was
sick of his theme song now).

Hopefully we don't need to visit
his office, either. Check the
computer on the left side of the
screen. This computer holds data
from the security cameras.
Whenever someone enters or exits
the warehouse, a picture of the
person is taken. You couldn't
get a picture, but you were able
to get the camera's data. The
camera went off once last night.
CAMERA DATA will be added to the
Court Record.

At the bottom of the screen is a
pink box. This was the box that
held the Sacred Urn in it. On
the bottom of this wooden box
that Maya made are some spots
that look like blood. Or wet
paint, or something else. Now
you should examine the blue
sword on the ground right next
to the box. This was the ancient
Shichishito sword that the
golden Ami statue was holding.
Wait, what was that? The statue
was holding it last night, but
now it's on the ground. The end
of the sword has also been bent
slightly. Phoenix thinks that
someone used this sword
yesterday. SHICHISHITO will be
added to the Court Record.

Change to the other side of the
screen. Examine the pink paint
near the golden Ami statue. This
paint wasn't here last night,
yet it is somehow dry right now.
Phoenix then notices some sort
of shape at the corner of the
stain. Finally, examine the
golden Ami statue. Pearl notices
that the statue was moved
slightly to the right from the
location that it was at
yesterday. What is the reasoning
for this? Either way, AMI FEY'S
GOLDEN STATUE will be updated in
the Court Record.

There's nothing else right now.
Head back into the Main
Exhibition Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Main Exhibit Hall
--------------------------------
Phoenix's cell phone goes off
when you come back upstairs.
Gumshoe will be on the other end
of the line, laughing that he
finally bested the Ace Detective
at something. He goes on to say
that he caught someone. Who?
None other than Mask DeMasque
himself. Actually, he ended up
surrendering. Huh? That's not
interesting!

Sadly, Gumshoe isn't yet ready
to detail the whereabouts of the
Sacred Urn at the time. He tells
you to return to the Detention
Center so he can tell you the
news. Not only that, but
DeMasque is there and wishes to
speak to Phoenix. Move to the
Wright & Co. Law Offices, and
from there, move to the
Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will greet you upon
entering the Detention Center.
He's still excited that he
caught Mask DeMasque, but won't
answer where the Sacred Urn is
yet. Before you can discuss more
about what is going on, the man
in the detention area will ask
to speak with you. He doesn't
look all that bad. He calls
himself Ron DeLite, otherwise
known as the infamous Mask
DeMasque.

Ask about "Mask DeMasque". Ron
seems confused as to whether or
not he is Mask DeMasque. He
won't exactly give you any more
clues as to who he is, as all he
does is complain that you can't
spell his name right. He then
asks if you would talk to
someone named Dessie. Talk about
"Sacred Urn".

This guy just keeps spieling the
same stuff over and over again,
until Maya gets ticked off that
he's avoiding the question. He
then claims that he lost the
freaking urn. How in the hell
did he lose the urn? If only we
could punch characters through
our DS's. Well, talk about "Lost
it?" now. He isn't sure on where
he lost the urn, but since the
Magatama isn't going off, it is
a safe bet that he really did
lose it somewhere.

Now, finally speak about
"Dessie". He calls Dessie his
wife. Turns out that she has her
own hideout. More like a
mediocre apartment, actually.
Well, I hate this guy. Don't
know if you do yet, but, I'm
sure you want to head off to
DeMasque's Hideout. Move there.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12
Location-Mask DeMasque's Hideout
--------------------------------
When you enter the hideout, you
will find Desiree DeLite
waiting, expecting Ron, though.
She mentions something about you
helping Ron. Why would we be
helping the criminal?

Talk to her about "Ron DeLite".
After mentioning that the news
broadcast mentioned Maya doing
some shady business, Desiree
says that she wanted to meet the
lawyer that they mentioned on
television, which happens to be
you. She then says that Ron kept
saying he wanted to turn himself
into the police, claiming that
he was the one who stole the
urn. Desiree seems to think Ron
didn't steal it. Is she not
aware that he is Mask DeMasque
or something? How confusing.

Ask about "Desiree DeLite" next.
She is the type of person who
needs excitement in their lives.
She also comments that Ron is
totally unlike her in the sense
that he doesn't seek excitement
as she does. But she does note
that Ron makes up for it in
money. Ron works as a security
guard, and it appears that they
get paid a lot. Lucky. I thought
they were barely paid
whatsoever.

Now you can talk about "The
night of the crime". She
mentions that during the heist's
time she was on her motorcycle
getting caught speeding by a
police officer. She didn't get
home until about three in the
morning. Ron wasn't with her at
all that night, though. When she
got home, Ron was fast asleep.

Now you should present Mask
DeMasque's profile. Desiree says
that Ron is one of his biggest
fans. Huh? Ron can be really
delusional at times, so much so
that he actually thinks that he
is Mask DeMasque. Talk about
"Delusions" now. It turns out
that Ron just loves to dress up
as Mask DeMasque and collect
figurines of him. Of course, if
Ron did steal the urn, then
logically he would still have
it.

Desiree is sure someone framed
Ron. She hands you DESIREE'S
LETTER, which is added to the
Court Record. You can't read the
letter yourself, so you will
have to give it to Ron. Head
back to the Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
When you arrive back here, start
by presenting Desiree's Letter
to Ron. The letter will be taken
away from the Court Record now.
Once Ron has read the letter to
himself, he will say that
Desiree told Ron to let Phoenix
defend him in court. Be sure to
choose "Take his case".

Maya will get ticked off at your
decision, and Pearl gets to mad
that she runs away. Maya chases
after her. When she returns, she
says that Pearl ran back to the
office. Well, we have work to
do. Return back to the Law
Offices.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-Wright
& Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Pearl will be waiting here for
you. She seems to be in a better
mood despite what you did, going
as far to make tea and cake.
Hmm. Well, talk to Maya now
about "Pearl". You'll learn that
when Pearl talks about Phoenix
being Maya's "special someone",
it's actually a custom back
where she lives in the village.
Now ask about "Maya". That
psycho Morgan is still in a jail
cell where she belongs.

Talk about the "Kurain Village
custom". Turns out that since
the spiritual powers only run in
the women of the family, the men
just leave their marriages,
especially if they've had a
child. Now talk about "Maya's
mother". Maya is still sure her
mother is alive somewhere,
despite being missing for 17
years.

Now Maya says you should get
going. Pearl then appears and
tells you that she can find some
evidence too, and leaves before
you can stop her. Move back to
the Main Exhibition Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12 Location-Lordly
Tailor, Main Exhibition Hall
--------------------------------
You'll find Adrian waiting for
you when you enter. She seems
really upset that she let the
urn get stolen. Start by talking
to her about "DeMasque's calling
card". The calling card arrived
ten days ago. She was going to
show it to the police, but Luke
Atmey stopped her. Adrian hired
him twenty days ago. She figured
he knew more about DeMasque than
the police. Adrian even had a
premonition something terrible
would happen, and she was right.
She even ordered all the
security cameras in the
warehouse.

Now talk about "The security".
She says that she shouldn't have
even bothered with such
security. It seems the actual
value of the urn was, well,
nothing. She then left the
security to Atmey. Many objects
arrived later that many people
had to go into the warehouse.
Adrian checked everyone, so
nobody was DeMasque.

Well, that was fruitless. And as
much as you may hate it, head to
the Atmey Detective Agency.

-------------------------------
Date-October 12
Location-Atmey Detective Agency
-------------------------------
Atmey will greet you upon
entering, so take the chance to
talk to him about "The night of
the crime". In Mask DeMasque's
very first robbery, he stole a
jewel called the Tear of Emanon.
So, even knowing how DeMasque
attacks and being on watch
himself, Luke Atmey still
couldn't prevent the stealing of
the urn. What was his modus
operandi?

Now ask about "Sacred Urn".
Atmey replies with some
irrelevent information,
translating basically into that
he doesn't know where the urn
is. Now you can ask about
"DeMasque's M.O.". Well,
DeMasque has to have stolen the
urn in some way. How did he do
it? You won't get far before a
Psyche-Lock appears over Luke
Atmey.

Ask about "Psyche-Lock". Maya
will talk to you. For some
reason, she has no idea how the
system works. Well, let's show
her! Present the Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Magatama Secret-
Mask DeMasque's M.O.~
--------------------------------
Atmey was standing guard at the
scene of the crime. Logically,
it is impossible to have missed
DeMasque when he stole the urn.
Atmey still says that he didn't
see anyone. You will need to
present some form of proof that
shows somebody went through the
door that night. Present the
Camera Data.

Somebody went through the door,
making the camera go off.
Obviously, one person used the
door. Atmey still is trying to
hide the reason why he couldn't
have seen anyone that night.
Supposing that he didn't see
Mask DeMasque that night, there
was a reason he couldn't. Choose
that he was "unconscious." Atmey
says that this won't be enough.
You need to present evidence
that shows he was unconcious.
Present the Shichishito when he
demands you back up the
statement.

Well, the sword was in the
statue's hand beforehand, and
wasn't bent at all. Thusly, the
only thing that could have
happened was that the robber
grabbed the sword and knocked
Atmey unconcious, bending the
sword in the process. With that,
the Psyche-Lock breaks.
--------------------------------

Now you can finally ask about
"DeMasque's M.O.". Atmey no
longer tries to hide the fact he
was clobbered when looking at
the computer. He couldn't have
entered the room normally, so he
must have come in another way.
He was hit on the head by the
sword soon after the arrival of
DeMasque. SHICHISHITO will be
updated in the Court Record.

Phoenix states that Atmey never
saw DeMasque. Thusly, it may not
even be him at all, but a
different thief entirely! Atmey
interrupts, saying he installed
a security camera for just that
reason. He presents a photo of
the thief in action. Well,
without a doubt that man in the
photo sure is dressed up like
Mask DeMasque. SECURITY CAMERA
PHOTO will be added to the Court
Record.

Now you need to ask about
"DeMasque's reason". Atmey says
that there is a good reason
DeLite dressed up as DeMasque.
He urges you to check out the
gree envelope in his room.
Ignorig just how he happens to
know such info, head over to the
DeMasque's Hideout.

--------------------------------
Date-October 12
Location-Mask DeMasque's Hideout
--------------------------------
Follow Atmey's instructions.
Examine the green envelope
sitting on the blue stool close
to you. The letter inside the
envelope tells Ron to go to KB
Security at 1:00 AM on October
12, bringing with him $50,000 if
he doesn't want his true
identity revealed. Someone will
also take a red diamond he got,
too. It's a blackmail letter.
BLACKMAIL LETTER will be added
into the Court Record now.

The doorbell will ring, and
Desiree will answer it. After a
short conversation between the
person and Desiree, and he'll
appear. Oh snap, it is none
other than Larry Butz! It's
about time he makes another
appearance. Oh, it's not that
bad. When you get the chance
(after Larry accused you of
being married to Desiree), talk
about "Larry Butz". Larry has
been having trouble keeping a
girlfriend the past two years.
They keep on moving around the
world, and he can't keep up with
them. He has such terrible luck
with them, it's kind of hard not
to laugh at how pathetic it is.

Now talk about "Why you came
here". He's a security guard,
and he found a wallet while
working last night. RON'S WALLET
will be added to the Court
Record. Since Ron isn't here,
we'll have to do something about
the wallet later. He's working
for a private security company
as a guard, hence the odd
uniform.

Talk about the "Wallet" next. He
asks if he needs an alibi, since
he doesn't want it collapsing
with an evidence product in the
future. He says he found it
around 1:00 AM on the first
floor of the building. That may
seem wierd, but it turns out
that Ron works at that building,
too. He even shows a key card
that Ron has for the company.
KEY CARD will be added to the
Court Record as well.

Present the Key Card back to
Larry. The serial number makes
it belong to the CEO's office.
Every time this card is used, a
record is kept of it. The KEY
CARD will be updated in the
Court Record. Now, present the
Blackmail Letter.

After Larry freaks out that he
thinks you're blackmailing him,
he sees that KB Security is
writted on the note. That's the
place Larry has his job. Now you
can talk about "KB Security".
The company's office is quite a
distance away. The distance
between Lordly Tailor and KB
Security causes a problem. Due
to it, there's no way Ron could
have stolen the Sacred Urn in
time.

Phoenix's phone rings, this time
it's Pearl. Pearl seems to have
gotten lost while trying to help
you. She ended up infront of the
office of Luke Atmey. Let's head
there. Go to the Atmey Detective
Agency.

-------------------------------
Date-October 12
Location-Atmey Detective Agency
-------------------------------
Pearl is here when you enter,
and so is something "different",
or so says Maya. Start by
examining the obvious-the large
dufflebag sitting on the clothed
table infront of you. Before you
get a chance to break into
Atmey's personal belongings
(good job, Phoenix), Atmey will
return to his office. He says
that you have other things to be
worrying about, such as
tomorrow's trial.

Talk about "Tomorrow's trial"
now. He says that he will be
testifying tomorrow. You will
also be facing off against
prosecutor Godot. Who? He
doesn't sound scary...

Talk about "DeMasque's identity"
next. Seems like Atmey is sure
that DeLite is actually
DeMasque. Now ask who "Godot"
is. He seems to be a legendary
prosecutor that is going to tear
Phoenix to shreds, more so than
Manfred von Karma. Atmey also
says that Miles Edgeworth is
traveling abroad at the moment,
but he did acknowledge that
Godot was a skilled prosecutor.

Well, that finally concludes the
investigation for the day. Marks
the first time you're going into
court that has nothing to do
with a murder. Save the game
when prompted.

================================
       ~6B.Part 2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-October 13, 9:36 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Maya right
before the trial. She hands you
a picture of Mask DeMasque that
she bought a little while ago.
They way they promote the guy,
he seems more like a hero than a
robber. MASK DEMASQUE PUBLICY
PHOTO will be added to the Court
Record.

Ron appears soon after,
screaming that he is the
criminal. Ron still isn't making
sense with his speeches. He
thinks he did the crime, yet
doesn't have the urn or any
recollection of it. Desiree
appears with him, saying that
Ron is innocent for sure. Uh,
okay. Damn this case is making
little sense.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court,
Courtroom No. 6
--------------------------------
Well, that is prosecutor Godot.
He's never lost a case. Ever!
The best part about Godot? He's
never been in a case. Ever!
Yeah, I thought we heard he was
legendary. Everyone calls him
that, yet he's a nobody. And
I'll say it now--he is a nobody.
Don't feel intimidated by that
red visor. He's a real crappy
prosecutor.

Well, enough ranting about
Godot. He seems to know Phoenix
and has come to do battle with
him, whatever that means. The
first witness, naturally, is
Gumshoe. He'll start with his
testimony right away.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Testimony-
Mask DeMasque's Crimes~
--------------------------------
-Mask DeMasque is a master thief
months ago.

-He's so confident that he sends
the crime!

-This was his fifth heist, and a
Tailor.

-His pattern is to always go aft

-That's why we're sure it was Ma
T!

Start by pressing the fourth
statement. You will learn of the
priceless artifacts that
DeMasque has stolen in previous
outings. However, something
isn't right. Present the Sacred
Urn at that statement. Remember
in your discussing with Adrian,
she told you that when it was
looked at, the urn had
absolutely no value whatsoever.

Thusly, the urn isn't something
that DeMasque would actually go
after. This means that Mask
DeMasque didn't steal the urn.
Godot says that a fake must have
stolen it. Godot and the Judge
will demand some proof that the
Mask DeMasque that stole the urn
was actually a fake. Present the
Security Camera Photo.

If you ever compared the
DeMasque in this photo to the
one in the promo poster that
Maya gave you, you may have
noticed a glaring fault--
DeMasque's broach is missing.
When Godot asks to back this up,
point to the spot where the
broach would normally be--just
below his neck. The DeMasque in
the security photo is missing
such a broach. It's even the
emblem on the calling card if
you didn't notice. This means
the one who broke into the
Lordly Tailor must be a fake.

Godot interrupts and presents
the missing broach himself. He
found the broach behind the
statue of Ami. He then says that
Ron's fingerprints could also be
found on the broach. Well, this
sucks. The broach has some cloth
left on the back of it, as if it
were torn off during a struggle.
DEMASQUE'S BROACH will be added
to the Court Record.

Godot calls forth his next
witness, one you already knew
was going to appear. It's none
other than Luke Atmey. Ignoring
all the annoying talk that Atmey
spills out, time for a
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-What I
Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-It was approximately 1 o'clock 
changed.

-That's when my nemesis, the inf
upon me!

-Just as I began to turn, the co
head!

-Darkness swallowed me before I 
he was gone.

-Thirty minutes later, I used an

Press the fourth statement.
Atmey says again that he was
knocked unconcious right away,
but that can't possibly be true.
Present the DeMasque's Broach at
this statement. After all, this
broach shows signs that a
struggle occurred before it was
torn off.

There was only one person in the
room DeMasque entered--Atmey. He
had to have fought with
DeMasque, even if just to pull
off his broach. Atmey will
testify again, this time about
his fight with the thief.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-Fight
With The Thief~
--------------------------------
-Indeed, it's true that I looked

-However...Luke Atmey cannot be 

-Unfortunately, the thief grabbe
senseless.

-A true gentleman fights only wi
enough.

-His first blow struck true! Bam

Press the first statement to
learn that Atmey looked from the
door in order to check the
computer, which has just
recorded the alarm going off.
Choose to ask "About the
sensor". You'll learn that he
placed detectors everywhere near
every entrance. Now, press the
final statement.

Atmey will describe how he was
trying to fight against the
villian. When some choices come
up, choose "Atmey Fighting
Style?". All he says is to put
your back against the wall
during an attack. The Judge will
ask if this was important.
Choose "It was very important.".
The following statement will be
added to the testimony:

-I put my back to the wall to fi
third eye.

Press this new statement. He's
actually referring to his
forehead when he means third
eye. At this statement, you need
to present the Shichishito.
Yeah, there's a problem. Atmey
told you quite clearly
yesterday, not to mention it's
in the Court Record, that he was
hit by the weapon at the back of
his head and not the front.

This blatant contradiction isn't
the only thing that stands out
in his testimony. Atmey has also
been hiding the calling card
that was sent by Mask DeMasque
from the police. It seems as
though Atmey was afraid they
would help with security. Godot
objects (for the first time yet)
saying that Atmey has just made
a simple mistake. However,
Phoenix thinks otherwise. When
given the choice, choose that
"Mr. Atmey is Mask DeMasque".
It's the only logical answer.

That sure got a reaction out of
Atmey. He was hiding at crime
scenes, so nobody ever saw him.
Not only that, but in a previous
heist he just happens to recover
the stolen object. Basically,
Atmey is full of crap as he
tries to worm his way out of
this. All he did was dress as
the thief and steal the urn.
Right before you are able to
prove that Atmey is the
criminal, Godot objects, as well
as flings a coffee cup at you.

He says that this isn't true,
and demands that you show some
proof to back up your claim.
Choose that the proof "has yet
to be found!". Well, as much as
you'd hate to admit it, no proof
can actually be presented right
now. Well, it looks like things
are all over for you.

But wait! Desiree appears just
in the nick of time. She hands
you the dufflebag that was in
Atmey's office yesterday. But
that's not the important part.
She brought the contents of the
bag--the Sacred Urn itself.
SACRED URN will be updated in
the Court Record.

Atmey looks more flustered than
ever. Godot objects, saying that
since she is the wife of Ron,
she is only trying to save him
from conviction. Well, it is
true she could have found it
anywhere. You need to prove in
some way that the urn was in the
Atmey Detective Agency to begin
with. Choose to "Show
fingerprints on the urn". Sadly,
Atmey says that he is wearing
gloves all of the time, so his
fingerprints would never be on
the urn.

Phoenix will claim that he knows
whose fingerprints should appear
on the urn. Present Phoenix's
profile. Yeah, seems suicidal,
but after all, Phoenix checked
the bag yesterday and did end up
touching the urn. So, if
Phoenix's fingerprints end up
being on the urn, then it proves
that it does belong to Atmey
after all.

Godot objects, saying you could
have touched it at any time. But
Adrian said earlier that she
polished the urn to make it nice
and clean. Any previous
fingerprints on it would have
been washed away. Atmey goes
quite insane after this,
proclaiming that he actually is
Mask DeMasque after all. Sweet.
Looks like we won this trial
without much of a fight. And
now...

Damnit, Ron! Stop screwing us
over! He keeps on going on and
on about how he is the real
thief, not Atmey. Now Ron wants
to testify about how he is the
real Mask DeMasque, so you'll
have to prove him incorrect, or
he will be getting the guilty
verdict he wants. Well, I'm
confused. Why are we defending
the insane people again?

--------------------------------
~Ron DeLite's Testimony-Mask
DeMasque's Identity~
--------------------------------
-The truth is, I've been Mask De

-I mean, you can't prove that I'

-I don't have an alibi for the n

-I donned my costume that night 
the crime!

-Look! You can see right there i

-As for my broach, I snagged it 
that's all!

Press the third statement, as
anything else just get's Phoenix
to say he needs to find a way to
prove it was impossible for Ron
to be near the urn. Phoenix
thinks that he may have some
form of evidence that proves Ron
had some form of alibi when the
robbing took place. Choose "Yes,
I have evidence.". Present Ron's
Wallet.

After all, his wallet was found
at the same time that the
robbery took place. It was found
at KB Security headquarters.
Thusly, he had to be there on
that night, and not at the
warehouse. And since there was a
considerable distance between
there and the warehouse, he
couldn't have gone there in time
even if he wanted to. Ron then
refutes, saying that someone
must have placed the wallet
there to make it look like he
was there and not doing
something like pulling off a
heist.

Phoenix presents the Key Card,
and that Ron dropped his wallet
when using the card. Godot says
that Ron would need some form of
motive to enter KB Security in
the middle of the night. Now you
need some evidence to back up a
motive. Present the Blackmail
Letter. At the time of the real
theft, Ron was busy dealing with
a blackmailer in the CEO's
office.

Godot managed to object to your
nonsense, asking if you even
asked the CEO himself about it.
Now you need to present
something of someone that will
backup the claim that Ron was
inside the CEO's office that
night. Now present Larry's
profile. Larry was working as a
security guard that nigh. Now it
turns to the Key Card. Remember
that Larry said these kinds of
cards leave records when used.

All that's left to do now is
analyze the contents of the Key
Card. After a short
intermission, the person who is
the CEO is Kane Bullard. The Key
Card in question was used at 1
AM on the day of the crime. KEY
CARD is updated in the Court
Record.

Furthermore, this means that the
person in the security camera
photo can't be Ron DeLite.
Thusly, you have successfully
proven that he had an alibi that
night and couldn't be the real
Mask DeMasque. Ron must have
been in the CEO's office that
night.

Well, that's it. Ron has earned
himself a Not Guilty verdict for
real this time, and nothing he
says can get him out of it!

--------------------------------
Date-October 13, 2:24 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
Well, this short and simple case
wraps up quite nicely. You
proved your (insane) defendant
innocent, got the real criminal,
and nothing went wrong. Mia
didn't have to help at all,
either! Woo! Pearl, Maya, and
Desiree come and celebrate your
victory. After Pearl slaps
Phoenix several times, thinking
that he's cheating on Maya or
something, but then Godot comes
up to you.

Sadly, he says that the body of
the CEO, Kane Bullard, was found
dead. He was found to be dead at
around 1 AM, October 12. Aw
crap, now that we have freed Ron
from being a thief, we have yet
to clear him of being a
murderer. What, why would a CEO
want to blackmail Ron, if he
even is the blackmailer?

Ron was in the CEO's office at 1
AM, the exact time and place of
the murder. Ron is looking a bit
suspicious now. Ron was once a
security guard at KB, so it
seems natural that he would have
some connections to the place.
Well, looks like Ron is heading
right back off to the Detention
Center. Sucks to be him.

Well, on a final note of battle,
Godot wishes you goodbye. Now we
get to try and prove Ron
innocent for murder. When you
get the chance, save the game.
This case just got much longer
and complicated.

================================
   ~6C.Part 3 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-October 13, 3:02 PM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya helps rub in the pain by
saying you did too good of a job
getting Ron off the hook, so
much so that now he's convicted
of murder. Pearl then heads off
to Kurain Village alone to take
back the urn. She also wants you
and Maya to have some alone
time. The Sacred Urn will be
handed to Pearl.

Start off by talking to Maya
about "What to do". Maya says
that you should ask Desiree
where KB Security is located.
She also says you should stop by
the Detention Center first to
ask Ron several questions. Talk
about the "Sacred Urn" now. Maya
will say that something is wrong
with the urn--it has I AM
spelled in the exhibition photo,
but it looks fixed with AMI
written on it. There's also the
matter of the pink splotches on
it. Could the urn be a fake?

Talk about "Kurain Village"
next. Maya will recount what
happened during the murder in
the village from last year. Head
over to the Detention Center
now.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Ron is going under some
interrigation right now, so you
aren't able to talk to him. Now
head over to DeMasque's Hideout.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13
Location-Mask DeMasque's Hideout
--------------------------------
Desiree is still here,
complaining that Ron wouldn't
kill somebody. Once she has
stopped complaining, talk to her
about "Ron DeLite". She will say
again that Ron would never kill
somebody. Despite the fact that
he probably isn't the killer, it
still seems odd that he calls
himself a thief even though we
already found out just who to
real thief was. Desiree says
that she known everything about
Ron, and fell in love with him
at first sight.

Now ask about "Detective Atmey".
Desiree ended up getting nervous
during trial and left early,
trying to find some info on the
real criminal. Since she figured
that Atmey knew a lot about
DeMasque, she figured she would
go ask him some questions
herself. When she poked into his
office, she found the dufflebag
lying on the table. And that,
you know, she brought to court.

Now talk about "KB Security".
Desiree still thinks that Ron is
working there. Desiree will tell
you the location of KB Security,
so you can go there now.
Finally, ask about "Love at
first sight?". Ron ended up
saving Desiree from two robbers
one day. Well, enough love
stories--head over to the CEO's
Office.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-KB
Security; CEO's Office
--------------------------------
What a creepy room for an
office. Look's more like a
vault. Detective Gumshoe is
here, as you may have thought,
investigating the scene. Once
Maya stops insulting Gumshoe,
you should first ask about "What
happened". The victim of the
murder was Kane Bullard, CEO of
KB Security. He was found dead
at 9:00 AM this morning, and
thought to have been killed at
1:00 AM on October 12. Killed by
a blunt force to the head.
AUTOPSY REPORT will be added to
the Court Record.

Oddly enough, the body was found
in the large safe to the left,
explaining why it took so long
to discover the missing body.
Now ask about "Detective Atmey".
Atmey is also at the Detention
Center, laughing and screaming
at the police. Good to know he's
still insane. Gumshoe explains
that it should have been obvious
since Atmey always disappeared
when the heists took place.
Gumshoe says that there was a
witness on DeMasque's first
heist. NEWSPAPER CLIPPING will
be added to the Court Record.

Now you can ask about
"Prosecutor Godot". Gumshoe says
that Godot is completely
shrouded in mystery. He just
came to the prosecutor's office
one day, and faced off in court
for the first time today. Oddly,
he seems to be an expert despite
this being his first case.
Everyone else thinks Godot is
too strange to be talked about.
Perhaps he is hiding some
secret?

Present the Newspaper Clipping
to Gumshoe. Gumshoe lost the
information on the only witness,
but the guard in the picture
ended up being the witness. Him
and Atmey worked together to
catch DeMasque. Gumshoe has the
feeling that he's seen the guard
lately.

Now you should start to examine
the area. Check out the blue
binder on the front table. For
some reason, it is filled to the
brim with information about Mask
DeMasque, not something about
security! Towards the end of the
book is a piece of paper that
lists the treasures DeMasque has
stolen, and their values. KANE'S
LIST will be added to the Court
Record. If you check it, the
treasures have been increasing
in value. The $100,000 Tear of
Emanon was first, and up to the
$800,000 Portrait of Mejeena. So
why, then, would he steal a
worthless urn?

Examine the large gold safe on
the left. Gumshoe steps in,
saying that there weren't any
traces of fingerprints found on
the safe. Gumshoe also says that
opening the safe is insanely
difficult, and that only a few
people actually know how to do
it. Everyone that knows how to
open the safe has an alibi,
except for, naturally, Ron.
Looks like Ron knew how to open
the safe as well.

Now, examine the red button just
behind the CEO's desk. Maya
presses the button in curiosity,
making a loud and annoying alarm
go off. After Gumshoe freaks out
a bit, he explains that it's an
emergency buzzer, as if you
should have been able to read
that from the label. The buzzer
is connected to the basement's
guard room. Sadly, the CEO never
pressed the button on the night
that he was attacked. No
fingerprints were found on the
buzzer, either. Kane Bullard
wasn't wearing gloves at all, so
it's impossible for him to have
pushed the button. EMERGENCY
BUZZER added to the Court
Record.

You can examine the picture or
shelves if you want, but for
now, head to the Security Room.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-KB
Security; Security Guard Office
--------------------------------
What a high-tech office. Larry,
if you remember, works here. He
greets you upon entering, and
then says that he has some news
about the murder. Talk to him
about the "Good info". After
Maya warms him up, Larry will
say that Ron was an employee
here a while ago. However, he
was fired one year ago. There
wasn't any warning to the
firing, either.

Now talk about "Security guard".
Larry talks about what he has to
do as a security guard. It's the
normal "watch the screens for
hours" stuff. Now ask about "The
night of the crime". Looks like
Larry isn't ready to spill out
what he saw this night, and a
pair of Psyche-Locks appear over
him. Well, with nowhere else to
go, present the Magatama to get
this rolling.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Magatama Secret-
The Night of the Crime~
--------------------------------
Phoenix starts to accuse Larry
of not being on the job through
the entire night. You will then
be demanded to present some
evidence that shows Larry had to
have left his position some time
during the night. Present Ron's
Wallet. After all, Larry
practically gave that away for
you. Larry had to visit Desiree
yesterday in order to hand back
the wallet. He found the wallet
at around 1:00 AM in the
morning, the same time as the
murder. Thusly, he wasn't in the
security guard office at the
time of the murder.

There's still one lock to go.
Larry now says that his shift
didn't start until 10:00 PM. The
murderer might have snuck in
before that time. If that is
true, than it's the fault of the
previous guard and not Larry.
Now you need to present evidence
that completely shows the
murderer must have snuck in well
after 10:00 PM. Present the CEO
Office Key Card. The card has
some data of being used at 1:00
AM. So, Larry doesn't know about
the card being used. Great. With
that, the last lock breaks.
--------------------------------
Now you can ask about "The night
of the crime". During the middle
of his shift, Larry's girlfriend
called and showed him that she
had gotten another boyfriend.
The guy then knocked out Larry,
explaining now how he couldn't
have been in the security
office. Maya suggests you show
him some evidence to make him
feel better. Present the CEO
Office Buzzer.

Larry agrees to talk about the
buzzer. Ask about "Emergency
buzzer" next. Maya will ask if
it is true that the buzzer never
went off on the night of the
murder. Larry heads off to check
on the records of the buzzer
uses, and comes back surprised.
The buzzer was actually used
once in the morning, just after
1 AM, the time of the murder.
BUZZER RECORD will be added to
the Court Record. If you check
it, the buzzer went off at 1:02
AM. Head back into the CEO's
Office.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-KB
Security; CEO's Office
--------------------------------
Gumshoe is still here. Present
Kane Bullard's profile to him.
Although he doesn't know much,
you can now ask about "The
victim". This company actually
sends security teams to
companies that request them.
Bullard probably learned many
secrets while doing this work.
Bullard also loved his money,
and earned millions from his
business.

Bullard also traded company
secrets to some rival companies.
KB Security also used to head
security operations against Mask
DeMasque. After many screw ups,
the company started to falter.
It can be easily told now that
Bullard sent Ron the blackmail
letter. Head to the Basement
Warehouse now.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Basement Warehouse
--------------------------------
You will find Adiran down here
still, looking as messed up as
ever. She'll be happy to hear
that the urn was found. Now talk
to her about "DeMasque's
identity". She'll feel bad about
herself about realizing that she
was the person who hired
DeMasque to be a security guard,
which just ended up in the urn
getting stolen even more easily.
Remember, Atmey was hired 20
days ago, and the card came 10
days ago. Obviously, Atmey must
have done it.

Now ask about "The night of the
crime". Atmey was hiding
throughout the night of the
crime, so Adrian never got a
good look at him on that night.
He just operates that way to
steal stuff more easily. Now ask
about the "Sacred Urn". Phoenix
notes that the urn looks
different, and Maya asks if
Adrian knows anything about it.
Two Psyche-Locks will appear
over her. We need a little more
evidence, so for now, head back
to the Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Ron will finally be done with
the questioning, Phoenix accuses
him of lying to them, and that
he was answering a blackmail
letter at KB Security. We need
to get the truth out of him. Ask
him about "Mask DeMasque". Ron
finally admits to being the one
that didn't steal the urn. The
person in the security photo
must have been Atmey, then.

Now ask about "The night of the
crime". Ron now admits he really
did head over to KB Security at
the time that the blackmail note
said to do so. Ron worked there
a while ago, so he was already
aware of where the CEO's office
was located. He knocked, and
there was no answer. He then
used his key card to unlock the
door himself. This is also the
point in time that he likely
dropped his wallet, which Larry
later found.

Ron says that when he went into
the CEO's office, someone was in
there. He wasn't able to get a
good look at them before the
person hit Ron over the head,
knocking him out. He doesn't
know if the person was Kane
Bullard or not, but the attacker
did run away after hitting Ron.
When Ron finally woke up, he
found the dead body of CEO Kane
Bullard lying infront of him.
Figuring that he had to do
something with the body, he
opened the safe and put him
inside.

Ron knew how to open up the
safe, as you may recall. Ron
then left quite carefully after
that. Ron was the person who
setup all of the security
cameras in the building, so he
was aware of where they all were
and what areas they scanned.
With that, he was able to safely
avoid detection.

Now ask about "Why you were
fired". He demands to know if
you have told that to Desiree
yet. He says that she can't know
that he has been living a life
of crime. Well, from the way it
looks, Ron actually is Mask
DeMasque. Desiree spends money
like crazy, so he became a thief
in order to get the money needed
for his wife to spend.

All you can do now is present
the Newspaper Clipping. This is
an article about his first
heist. After stealing the
expensive gem, Ron got an idea.
He hid the Mask DeMasque costume
in a nearby bucket, then
proceeded to change into his
security guard uniform. This
means that the guard in the
picture on the clipping is
actually Ron himself. NEWSPAPER
CLIPPING will be updated in the
Court Record. However, Atmey
actually managed to find the
disguise. He even went on the
bring it home with him. That's
how Atmey managed to snag
himself a broach. A few days
after the incident, Ron got the
first of many blackmail letters.

Talk about "Blackmail letter"
now. The letter you found wasn't
the first, but it was the first
that called him to a specific
location. The first letter had
someone claim that they knew he
did it. In the end, he had to
give up the treasure that he
worked so hard to steal. After
he read the letter, he took the
jewel and put it into a certain
safety deposit. When he went to
check on the jewel later, he
found the person had taken it,
and in its place, found $10,000.
After that moment, he started to
get plans in the mail.

Talk about "Heist plans" next.
In the mail, he would start
recieving plans on how to steal
valuable objects. All of the
plans showed the blind spots in
the security, escape routes, and
even ways of training for the
entire operation. So, in the
end, Ron only planned his first
crime. The rest of them were
thought up by someone else. If
Ron is really Mask DeMasque,
someone else is really behind
the thefts. All he had to do is
place the treasures in the mail,
and he eventually got money back
for them. As it turns out, Ron
never even saw the urn. Did he
even steal it? RON'S TESTIMONY
is added to the Court Record.

Ron goes on to say that he
didn't kill Kane Bullard. All he
did was hide his body in the
safe. He was afraid that it
would be discovered that he hid
the body in the safe, so he
turned himself in as the thief.
If he was guilty of robbery,
then he would have had an alibi.
Pearl will finally return after
all this. She ended up taking
the Sacred Urn to Kurain Village
to have it examined. She says
that the people there who looked
at it confirmed it to be the
real urn.

However, the pink splotches all
over the urn is actually paint,
and that they were put on it
recently. You need to find how
these splotches ended up on the
urn. SACRED URN will be added
back into the Court Record. Head
over to the Basement Warehouse
now.

--------------------------------
Date-October 13 Location-Lordly
Tailor; Basement Warehouse
--------------------------------
Adrian is still here, and
Phoenix comments that by
examining the scene here, as
well as the urn, you can piece
together what actually happened
that night. Switch screens and
examine the large area of paint
splattered all over the back
wall. The bottom left corner has
an odd shape in the paint, and
it happens to be the same color
as the marks on the urn. What is
the cause of the mark?

Switch screens again and examine
the wooden box lying on the
floor. There is pink paint on
this box as well, the same color
as the one on the urn. Do you
see how paint got on the box and
urn yet? URN BOX will be added
to the Court Record. Now, switch
screens yet again and examine
the paint on the wall one more
time. You and Pearl agree that
the odd shape at the corner of
the dried paint was made by the
box the urn was placed in. Now
we are getting somewhere. PAINT
MARKS will be added to the Court
Record. All that is left to do
is get the very last bit of
information from Adrian Andrews.
Present the Magatama, and let's
squeeze it out of her.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews's Magatama
Secret-The Sacred Urn~
--------------------------------
Phoenix tells Adrain that the
urn submitted in court as
evidence is most certainly
different than the one in the
exhibit. Adrian says that it is
possible the urn could be a
fake, and asks for evidence that
the urn submitted in court was
genuine. You just figured this
out yourself--present the Sacred
Urn.

Pearl just went back and
confirmed that it is the real
thing. However, there is
something different. This time,
the urn was broken yet again.
Adrian will ask for evidence on
how you can tell the urn was
broken yet again recently.
Present the Treasure Exhibit
Poster. You can tell from the
photo alone that the urn should
have red "I AM" and that there
should be cracks all over it.
The urn reads "AMI" again,
though. The first lock will
break once you have figured this
out.

Adrian says that she wasn't
present when the picture of the
urn was taken. Even if the urn
was broken, she had nothing to
do with it. You will need to
present proof that the urn was
broken here at Lordly Tailor.
Present the Paint Marks. There
is pink paint over the urn, and
pink paint all over the floors
nearby. Adrian tries to get
herself out of the situation,
but you won't let her. She says
there isn't any proof the paint
on the urn and that on the floor
are the same paint.

Now you need proof showing they
are one and the same. Present
the Urn Box. After all, the box
fits the shape imprinted onto
the shape of the paint on the
floor. With that, the final lock
breaks.
--------------------------------
Now you can ask about the
"Sacred Urn". Adrian finally
admits to being the one who
broke the urn. Not only did she
break it, but she tried to hide
what she did. This happened two
weeks, just after the promo
photo was taken and the day the
urn arrived at the warehouse.
She was carrying the box and
taking it to the warehouse,
until she tripped over a paint
can, crashing the box onto the
ground. When she picked up the
box, the broken pieces of the
urn fell out and right into the
wet paint.

Seeing as this was the most
important article in the
village, she had to try and
reassemble the urn. She figured
that the urn had to read "AMI"
after all. She put the urn in
the storeroom, and it hasn't
been seen since. SACRED URN will
be updated in the Court Record.
Adrian was so embarassed at her
mistake that she had to use the
golden Ami statue to cover up
the paint. Now ask about the
"Ami Fey statue".

There weren't paint marks when
you first came here. On the day
you arrived, the statue also
happened to come. She decided to
cover up the paint with the
statue. However, when you
revisited this room, the statue
had moved and the paint marks
were revealed. This means that
somebody else must have moved
the statue as there is no reason
Adrian would move it again.

AMI FEY'S GOLDEN STATUE will be
updated in the Court Record.
There seems to be some
connection between the urn and
this murder. If the real Mask
DeMasque, Ron DeLite, was at KB
Security, then who was here
stealing the urn? Save the game
when prompted.

================================
      ~6D.Part 4-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 9:41 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
Maya mentions that a ton of
people are here for the trial
next door, the one for Detective
Atmey. Ron will burst in,
demanding attention. If Ron was
just following plans this whole
time, it is possible the murder
and the robberies have something
in common. Phoenix also notes
that you have little time in
court.

--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 6
--------------------------------
As Godot spills some more
nonsensical words of wisdom, the
Judge will summarize the details
of the case thus far. Godot will
demand that Ron testifies first.

--------------------------------
~Ron DeLite's Testimony-My Visit
to KB Security~
--------------------------------
-That evening, around 1 AM, I we
Security.

-The blackmail letter I got...It

-I'd been working for KB Securit
office was.

Oh, that's it? Short testimony.
Ironically, it will take a while
before you can point out a
contradiction. Start by pressing
the second statement, which
seems to be missing some key
information. The Judge will ask
Ron if he's gotten other
blackmail letters before, and
will start to explain what they
tell him to do, but Phoenix
stops him. Choose to "Press
harder". Ron says that he had no
intention of paying the money,
and had nothing to be afraid of.
The following line will be added
to his testimony:

-The blackmail thread didn't sca
or anything.

Press the final statement. Godot
will say that because Ron was
fired for little reason, that
would be a perfect motive for
murder. Phoenix will then think
of another question to ask to
change the subject. Choose "Why
he was fired". Ron, sadly,
replies that he needed money.
Ron's salary wasn't enough, so
he decided to steal data from
the company. Ron was head of his
security team, and he was easily
able to obtain data of other
security teams in other
buildings, and then sold that
information for cash. When Kane
Bullard found out about this,
Ron was promptly fired. Ron was
able to make it appear to others
that he only quit his job, and
the following line is also added
to the testimony:

-He fired me for selling compant
that.

Now that you have this
statement, you can get somewhere
by pressing the first statement
that was added (The blackmail
thread...). Ron says that he is
sure that the blackmail letters
were referring to him being Mask
DeMasque. Godot objects, saying
that Kane Bullard had no way of
proving that Ron was Mask
DeMasque. Because he was
stealing data, there may have
been a problem that became
public knowledge. Choose "Yes,
he would.".

You will need to provide some
evidence that shows why Ron
would need to keep the news of
him stealing data from going
public. Present Desiree's
profile. Ron, as he told you,
was scared of Desiree finding
out that he was a criminal.
Godot now continues, saying that
Ron truly was afraid of his wife
finding out about the stealings.
Kane Bullard then used blackmail
to squeeze the money back out of
Ron, explaining why Ron had to
kill Bullard.

Godot will now demand that Ron
explains what happened at the
crime scene early in the
morning.

--------------------------------
~Ron DeLite's Testimony-At the
CEO's Office~
--------------------------------
-When I entered the office, ther

-Suddenly, I was hit on the fore
dazed.

-If I hadn't been wearing that, 

-When I came to...Mr. Bullard wa

Press the third statement for
some important information. You
need to know what "that" is. Ron
is actually talking about his
Mask DeMasque costume. The Judge
will order this statement into
his testimony:

-I'd have been killed if I hadn'

Press this new statement. Ron
was dressed up as DeMasque
because, mainly he is DeMasque,
and because he thought that the
blackmail was originally about
the Mask DeMasque issue and not
the data stealing one. He
mentions that with his cape on,
the process of getting there
took much longer.

Choose to "Press harder". He
then says that opening the safe
actually took much longer. His
cape kept getting caught on the
safe door while he was trying to
hide Bullard's body. The Judge
gets furious at this, and orders
Ron to add this next statement
to his testimony:

-I panicked and his the body in 

There's a problem with this
statement, despite it not
seeming that way. Present the
Buzzer Record paper. The buzzer
was pressed at 1:02 AM. If Ron
actually was the murderer, he
wouldn't have been stupid enough
to stand around and wait for the
security team to arrive. Godot
says that Ron may not have known
there was security in the
building, but that's impossible.
Ron was one of the security
guards until a year ago.

There's no way he wouldn't have
known about them. Although,
nobody ended up coming due to
Larry being knocked out
elsewhere at the time. Godot
thinks that it may have been
pressed without Ron knowing it,
but remember that the buzzer is
annoyingly loud. Ron didn't know
the buzzer sounded because he
was knocked out shortly after
entering the room. That's why he
assumed he had time to hide the
body. Whoever knocked out Ron
was also the person who pushed
the buzzer.

Godot keeps saying that is was
Kane Bullard that pushed the
buzzer, and you may want to
prove it with evidence. Choose
"I can prove it alrght.". You
will need to now present some
form of evidence that shows Kane
couldn't have pushed the buzzer.
Present the CEO Office Buzzer
itself. Remember, no
fingerprints were found on the
buzzer, so there is no way he
could have pushed it.

Godot will keep on objecting to
this nonsense. He still thinks
that Bullard did end up pushing
the button. Mask DeMasque wears
gloves, so there is no reason
for him to wipe fingerprints off
the button. Now the Judge will
ask why would the real criminal,
who is in the same room, want to
push the emergency buzzer,
thereby putting himself in
danger?

The real criminal killed Bullard
at 1 AM, and Ron was heading
into the CEO office at the same
moment. The criminal pushed the
emergency buzzer soon after.
Security was supposed to
respond, but it never showed.
You will now need to give a
reason as to why the killer
sounded the alarm. Choose "To
call the security guard", the
obvious answer. That is exactly
what the murderer wanted. Of
course, this never happened,
unbeknownst to the killer.

There were three people in the
office when the alarm went off.
Bullard who was dead, Ron who
was unconcious, and the real
killer. If the killer made his
escape, then the security guards
who came would assume that Ron
was the killer. Ron was actually
being framed for murder.

Now, you will need to present
the person who is thought to be
the one that killed Bullard and
tried to frame Ron. Someone who
knew his identity already, as
well as someone who knew that he
was called to KB Security.
Present Luke Atmey's profile.

Atmey isn't Mask DeMasque. He's
really the true murderer of Kane
Bullard. Theft and murder are
two totally different crimes,
murder being the more serious
one. Atmey's real objective
yesterday was to be convicted of
theft. He'd get off the hook
more easily from that than
murder. Being found guilty as
being Mask DeMasque was Atmey's
entire alibi the whole time.

Oooh, that was smart of him.
Godot says that if you want to
stall this trial and stop
Atmey's before he gets a
verdict, now's the time to do
it, assuming you have proof that
he committed the murder. Mia
will flash in Phoenix's thoughts
(ah, can't go an entire trial
without her helping us. Stupid
deus ex machina crap Capcom
throws at us), and Phoenix will
then boldly exclaim that there
be a recess so that Atmey can be
summoned to the courtroom and
tried for murder.

--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 11:58 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 5
--------------------------------
Oh. That's where Payne has gone
to. And we get to see that there
IS more than one Judge. Cool.
Well, right before the new Judge
hands down the guilty verdict
for Atmey like he wants, Phoenix
bursts into the courtroom (and
yes, this Judge is Canadian).
Phoenix files an accusation for
murder against Luke Atmey just
in time. Save when prompted.

================================
      ~6E.Part 4-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 12:14 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
Well, even though we accused
Atmey of murder just well and
fine, we still have yet to
discover a motive for him. All
that's left is to find that and
get Ron off the hook. Somehow.

--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 12:21 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 6
--------------------------------
Luke Atmey will take the stand
once again. He will keep
insisting that he is the real
Mask DeMasque, and testify on
what he was doing the night of
the murder.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-The
Alibi~
--------------------------------
-I was stealing the urn as Mask 

-I had more than enough time to 

-A photograph contains now words
my witness.

-The time at which the camera ca
the murder.

One of two things can be fake.
The Mask DeMasque himself, or
the photo. Now, which do you
think is easier to prove? Press
the first statement. Godot will
object when you claim that it
may not be Atmey in the photo.
Choose to "Give it up". He
doesn't have an accomplice, at
least we don't know for sure
yet. Now press the second
statement. You won't get
anything out of it besides Atmey
praising himself for being so
clever in being a guard at the
place he's stealing from.

Press the third statement. Atmey
will boldly claim this is the
very thing that proves he
committed the crime, as if he
did it intentionally. Phoenix
notes that something may be
phony in the photo if he isn't
the DeMasque in it. Press the
final statement afterwards. The
camera was setup by Lordly
Tailor, and the picture printed
by them. The timestamp on it
couldn't be altered.

After being forced to press
every statement, press the third
one again. You will go through
nearly the same text, and Atmey
then says this proves he
couldn't have killed Bullard
that night. Phoenix thinks
something is odd about the
picture. Choose "You bet there
is.". There is something in the
photo that doesn't match the
info you have been given about
the heist earlier. You will need
to point to the spot that isn't
right. Point to the spilled
paint.

Considering the layout the
warehouse has, something should
have been in the picture that
isn't even in it. Present the
Ami Fey's Golden Statue. Adrian
put the statue over the paint
marks, remember? If the picture
was really taken on that night,
the spiller paint shouldn't even
be visible. Godot will object,
saying it could have been
pushed. However, due to the
weight of the statue, it would
have to be completely forced
over there.

Godot will demand a reason as to
why and how the statue was
pushed into the corner, and not
kept on the paint like it was
supposed to. When asked, present
Atmey's profile. Although
Phoenix is called delusional for
all of this, there is a simple
reason. Atmey was the only
person in the basement warehouse
that night. Now for the motive--
why would he need or want to
move the golden statue in the
first place?

The Judge will ask how the
statue isn't over the paint in
the picture. Phoenix will
explain that Atmey dressed as
Mask DeMasque in order to create
an alibi at Lordly Tailor that
night. The photo, however,
contains a large flaw. If the
statue was there, this lie would
have been caught more easily.
Godot asks you to explain what
in the picture is wrong. Point
to timestamp in the top left
corner and present it.

During the night in question,
Atmey went the KB Security and
murdered Bullard. It wouldn't
have been possible to be in
Lordly Tailor at the same time.
The statue wasn't placed down in
the room until the night of the
crime, so the only way that this
photo could have been taken
without the statue there is if
it were taken days before the
murder and "actual" robbery took
place. Atmey must have been
quite scared during the real
heist because the statue was in
the photo's view, but it isn't
in the photo that shows him
committing the fake robbery.

This is why Atmey had to move
the statue on the day of the
murder. It was just to make the
room look like it is in the
photo. Atmey will then present
the data for the basement
warehouse computer. The camera
went off once on the night of
the crime. Despite the camera's
belonging to Lordly Tailor, the
computer data was all Atmey's.
That made it possible for him to
tamper with the data. Godot says
that this is still only a
possibility. Since, through this
logic, Atmey is still DeMasque,
then he should have no problem
talking about his strategy.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-The
Sacred Urn Heist~
--------------------------------
-I first recieved the request fr

-The urn was placed in a box, an

-Hence, I was actually unable to
the crime...

-I knew it was an extremely valu
beforehand.

-I then handled security by myse
smoothly!

-At last, I held the urn in my h
12th.

What you're trying to prove is
that Atmey has taken the picture
well before the actual crime
took place. Press the last
statement. Perhaps Atmey could
have stolen, or at least seen,
the urn before the photo was
taken? With this info in mind,
present DeMasque's Calling Card
at the final statement.

Yeah, what a nonsensical
objection. Doubt many figured
that on their own. Well, if
Atmey was really DeMasque, the
calling card would be written by
him. The card itself reads
something about a "speckled
urn". That must be referring to
the pink paint all over the urn.
However, there is no possible
way that DeMasque would have
known this ten days ago. The
paint never appeared on the urn
until well after it actually
arrived at Lordly Tailor!

The urn got paint on it when
Adrian dropped it. The calling
card clearly mentions that pink
paint on it. This means Atmey
must have seen the paint on the
urn well before the crime took
place. He saw it when the photo
was taken. Because the photo has
pretty much been proven fake
now, Atmey's alibi is now thrown
out the window.

Godot now asks you the one
question you have yet to figure
out--why would Atmey want to
kill Kane Bullard? If he did all
this to pin the crime on Ron,
Atmey would need a damn good
motive. Atmey will now testify
about the motive for murder.
Ron's motive, that is.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-Motive
for Murder~
--------------------------------
-I, Luke Atmey, had no points of

-Kane Bullard decided to investi
he was!

-It was Mr. Bullard who wrote th
DeLite.

-And it was again Mr. Bullard wh
for his betrayal.

-Mr. Bullard's mistake is quite 
that he is Mask DeMasque!

-That is why Mr. DeLite saw it f
tragedy...

Before you cross examine, the
Judge questions if Ron really
was blackmailed by Kane Bullard.
Godot will say that a
handwritten analysis proves
this, and the BLACKMAIL LETTER
will be updated in the Court
Record to accomodate this
information.

You need to prove that Atmey and
Bullard had some connections.
Press the third statement. There
is no addressee written on the
letter. So, what if the letter
wasn't actually intended for
Ron? If you check the blackmail
letter yourself, read it
carefully. Something about it
fits Atmey moreso than Ron.
Present the Blackmail Letter at
the third statement.

Phoenix will say that the
Blackmail Letter holds one very
large contradiction. After
getting pestered by Godot, you
will be asked to show the
contradicting evidence in the
letter. Present the Newspaper
Clipping. The stolen jewel, the
Tear of Emanon, is in this
photo. The jewel's color is the
main problem. The jewel is blue
in the picture, and the letter
is asking for a red jewel,
something completely different.
The jewel asked for in the
letter isn't anything that Mask
DeMasque stole at all.

Quite clearly, as everyone says,
you are saying the letter was
intended for a different person.
You'll need to present that
person's profile. Present Luke
Atmey's profile once again.
Atmey has been following Mask
DeMasque after all of his
heists, and recovered one of the
objects in the fourth heist.
Atmey then got a red jewel as
his reward for doing so. I'm
sure you have noticed him
constantly flash it off as he's
talking.

This has to have been the red
diamon referred to in the
letter, making the letter
originally directed to Atmey and
not Ron. Godot will object,
saying that Bullard intended to
reveal someone's "identity" to
the world. Just what identity
could Atmey possibly have had?
When asked what he needed to
keep secret, choose "a
blackmailer.".

If you think about it, this all
makes sense. Kane Bullard is the
one who was blackmailing Luke
Atmey. However, Ron told you
that he was recieving blackmail
letters from an unknown source,
someone telling him to commit
all of these crimes and desposit
them elsewhere. This would mean
that Ron is actually Mask
DeMasque. Someone else came up
with the plans, and Ron actually
put them into motion. That
someone must by Atmey.

Atmey then goes on to say that
he would have learned the
identity of Mask DeMasque after
his first crime. During the
first crime, how did Atmey learn
that DeMasque was actually Ron?
Present the Newspaper Clipping
again. The picture on the front
has Atmey and Ron in his
security guard uniform. All Ron
did was take off the costume and
put it into a nearby bucket.
With such a crappy way of
getting rid of the evidence,
Atmey was easily able to find it
and put the two together. Atmey
is quite clearly now known as
blackmailing Ron.

All Atmey is is a murderer and a
blackmailer. Cool. After going a
bit crazy, Godot will object and
say that even though he has been
blackmailing Ron, and that he
has been proven to not be at the
warehouse during the night of
the crime, that it doesn't mean
he was the one who killed Kane
Bullard. If you can't prove he
was at KB Security, none of the
previous info will matter. That
night, Luke Atmey was at KB
Security, and the defense "can't
prove it.".

Aw, crap. Well, we tried. Godot
will interrupt when you ask for
another testimony. We took Atmey
from his own trial, so we may as
well take him back since you
can't prove he was the murderer.
Maya thinks that you can just go
out and investigate a little
more, but Godot will then bring
up the Double Jeopardy rule. If
a client is found innocent of
any crime, that person can't be
tried again a second time. So,
basically, if Atmey isn't found
guilty right now, you can't try
again. Unless something crazy
and impossible in real life
happens, you lose.

Oh, look, it's Mia, here to bail
you out of trouble yet again.
When the Judge was in a child,
this is what was on his report
card every year (What? Mia said
it--not me!). Mia thinks that
the testimony isn't quite over
yet, declaring that Atmey said
numerous new remarks after you
objected to his last testimony.
She says that they will be
proven useless in another cross
examination.

Godot will have a change of
heart all of a sudden, allowing
one final testimony.

--------------------------------
~Luke Atmey's Testimony-The Last
Testimony~
--------------------------------
-Indeed, it is true that I was n

-I had to leave to see about ano

-I had known about the date befo

-My brilliant deduction was what
DeLite.

-And thanks to the Key Card and 
was there.

-I was also able to make a deduc
once.

-The button did not have any fin

-The victim would have left prin
sounded it.

-Mr. DeLite was wearing his Mask
prints.

-And, the blackmail letter? The 
the jewel.

-Zvarri! Therefore, all the evid

The Judge is calling no
shenanigans on this testimony.
There isn't any evidence that
contradicts the testimony, so
you will have to press. The only
problem is, you get only one
chance. Press the wrong
statement and you will lose the
case. No pressure, right?

10 statements kill you. The only
one that yields any information
--and a case-breaking one at
that--is statement 9 (Mr. DeLite
was wearing...). Godot will
object right away, like he would
if you pressed any other
statement, but Phoenix stops
him. This statement is the one
that reveals that he must have
been in the CEO's office that
night.

The fact that Ron was wearing
his costume has NEVER been
brought up in this trial yet.
However, it was brought up when
Ron said it himself. Of course,
Atmey was in the courtroom next
door. He never could have
learned this, unless, of course,
he was in the CEO office. Godot
keeps saying that there must be
some way he figured it out
himself, and that's because
Atmey is the real killer.

Atmey is also the one that
knocked Ron unconcious. If Ron
saw the real killer, then the
real killer saw Ron. Atmey saw
Ron after killing Kane Bullard,
making it the only way he could
have known what he was wearing.

After laughing himself out of
commission, it looks like this
trial has finally come to an
end. Atmey sure thought his plan
through, even planning to use
the Double Jeopardy rule when
making his alibi. Ron still
claims that he's Mask DeMasque
(which is actually true now).
Aw, Ron finally claims something
on his own. Due to Double
Jeopardy, he can't be convicted
of robbery now. He was declared
innocent yesterday, remember?
Yay.

--------------------------------
Date-October 14, 3:35 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
Mia takes her leave during the
ending. Ron is still sad, now
that he's sure that his wife
hates him. Maya will ask you to
present something that shows
Ron's relationship is still
steady. Present the Sacred Urn.
Turns out the Desiree loves him
more than ever for always
declaring his crimes and not
being so sneaky.

Pearl breaks in and scolds
Phoenix, ending the case right
after.

================================
    ~7.Episode 3-Recipe for Turn
================================
The intro to this case starts
right at trial. Well, the end of
one, at least. The Judge claims
that there is no more need to
prolong the trial and that the
facts are clear. While this is
happening, a man (probably the
defendant), claims that he saw
another person at a certain
table. Another scene shows a
person drinking something, while
some other person across from
him slips in some powder to the
drink.

Back to court, Payne is quite
happy that he's won against
Phoenix Wright. Wait, Phoenix!?
What? That's impossible! He
can't lose! Not to someone as
crappy as Payne!

================================
   ~7A.Part 1 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-January 6, 10:03 AM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya and Phoenix are celebrating
the new year, and they don't get
far before Gumshoe breaks in. He
starts yelling at Phoenix,
saying he's got something to
talk about. He presents a
magazine article reading "Deadly
Poisoning Brings Guilty Verdict.
Defense Attorney Wright
Trounced."

Looks like Phoenix just got
completely screwed in court, and
Gumshoe isn't too happy about
it. Phoenix never actually took
on this case, let alone ever
remembering that it even
occurred. This must means that a
fake Phoenix is running rampant,
ruining his reputation. Well
that's just great. MAGAZINE
CLIPPING will go into the Court
Record.

Gumshoe says you better sort
this all out and get the case
taken back to court. No idea how
we are going to do that, but
it's a start. It sure won't be
easy getting a verdict like this
overturned. Still, why would
anyone even want to impersonate
Phoenix? Those silly cosplayers
would easily be spotted before
getting too close to the
courthouse. Hmm.

Now you'll be able to talk to
Maya, so talk about "What to do"
as usual. She says that you
could go to the Detention
Center, but it isn't likely that
you will get much out of the
person who is behind bars
because of you. Eh. Ask about
"Any ideas" next. Maya says that
Gumshoe acted weirder than usual
this morning. Seems like this
event really hit a nerve.
Perhaps it has something to do
with the client? You better get
yourself over to the Detention
Center, then.

--------------------------------
Date-January 6 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
When you enter, you will find
that the client found guilty was
none other than Maggey Byrde.
She's the police officer you had
to defend when Phoenix had
amnesia in the first case of
Justice For All. Good to see her
again, I suppose. That uniform
sure doesn't look very police
officer-ish. Phoenix will
explain his situation, you
finally get the chance to talk
to her.

Ask about "Maggey Byrde". Maggey
says that she was fired after
the incident she was involved in
last year. She now works as a
waitress in the small French
cafe Tres Bien. Now ask about
"What happened". The incident
occurred at Tres Bien on
December 3rd. There were two men
at the table, both of them
drinking coffee. One of them,
from the picture it looks like a
guy with spiky hair, dropped
some poison into the coffee.

The victim took a sip and was
soon killed from it. She doesn't
know either of the people
involved. Seems like Maggey has
no motive to kill the victim.
Even though she saw the killer,
it does no good that the defense
attorney that was defending her
was a crappy rip-off of the real
deal. Probably would have been
easy to get a Not Guilty verdict
if you were there.

Now ask about "Guilty verdict".
Maggey was only convicted
because nobody else saw these
events. Nobody saw the person
who put poison into the coffee.
Everyone who testified during
the trial said that. They say
that the victim was sitting
alone at the table the entire
time. Nobody believed Maggey,
and then to make matters far
worse then they already were, a
small bottle of poison was found
in the pocket of her apron.

Maggey passed out when she saw
what happened, so the killer had
time to slip the poison into her
pocket without her realizing it.
Now you can talk about "The
other guy". Maggey took the
coffee to them, and assummed
that both of them were from the
music industry. One of them had
an earpiece, another with the
face of someone from the
industry, and a sample CD was
lying on the table. The CD read
"MC", but Maggey isn't able to
remember the rest. She also
remembers that the killer was
well built, much like the
victim.

Present the Magazine Clipping to
her. Maggey met Phoenix on the
day after she was arrested, and
there wasn't any fake Maya in
sight. The fake Phoenix got all
passionate about the case,
sounding extremely overconfident
about himself. The fake Phoenix
was slightly taller and shady
than normal. The voice was also
really different. Everyone in
the courtroom also seemed
confused at the fake Phoenix,
but nobody raised any objections
over it.

Phoenix says that since a
verdict was given without a real
defense attorney, retrial may
still be possible. Now you have
to find the real murderer, and
get a retrial for this case
setup. Maggey will tell you
where Tres Bien is, so head
there right now.

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
It's quite the...uh, girlish
store. Yeah. You can clearly see
what table the murderer and
victim were at, as it has been
closed off from police tape.
There seems to be nobody here at
the moment, probably since no
one wants to risk getting killed
by their waitresses. Since
nobody is currently in the
resturant, you can take the
chance to examine the place and
take anything worthwhile.

Start by examining the large
flowery walls between each
table. Keep in mind that you
can't see any tables infront or
behind you--only places to the
left and right. That'll be
important later. Now examine the
rack of magazines kept close to
the entrance. When you do,
Phoenix will notice an out of
place magazine stuffed behind
the rack.

It happens to be a rolled up
sports paper, with some writing
on one of the pages scribbled
on. The words "MC Bomber" can be
found, pointing at the number
100,000 which has a large X over
it. A picture of a bomb can be
found on the right page, and a
doodle of Mask DeMasque can be
seen laughing at the words. You
will also note that the paper
was from December 3rd,
conveniently the day of the
murder. SPORTS PAPER will be
added to the Court Record.

With these important facts in
hand, head straight back to the
Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-January 6 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Present the Sports Paper to
Maggey. She says that Tres Bien
doesn't recieve any newspapers.
When shown the picture on one of
the pages, she'll remember that
MC Bomber were the words written
on the CD. The $100,000 written
on it was probably the down
payment for the record deal. The
newspaper likely belonged to the
victim in this case. With this
new information, return back to
Tres Bien.

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Maya appears on screen, shocked
at whoever is about to--oh gosh.
Who in the hell is that person?
Is..is that a guy? This person
says that he knows you, the
person who flirted with him in
court. Well, cool that we know
he's gay or something. Too much
information. This guy refers to
himself as Jean Armstrong.

Ask about "Tres Bien". Armstrong
says the the name means "Very
Good" when translated into
English. You know, the language
you wish he would speak? He also
goes on to say that ever since
Maggey got arrested, he has been
forced to run the resturant on
his own. Nobody has answered his
wanted ads for new jobs. I can
see why. Armstrong is also the
chef, and an aromoatherapist.
That probably explains the
abundant amount of flowers
within the shop.

Ask about "What happened"
afterwards. It was around 1 PM.
A man who came in for some
coffee suddenly became violently
ill, clearly from the poison
that was put into his coffee. It
was Maggey who took the coffee
to him, so he wouldn't know much
else. Armstrong was in the
kitchen when he heard the cries
from the victim, and ran out to
find the victim dead, as well as
Maggey lying unconcious upon the
floor. He also confirms that the
man was alone when he was found
dead. He was constantly asked by
police if there was only one
person, and the old man was
asked the same question.

Ask about "Old man" for some
more info. At the time of the
murder, another person was here.
He too was alone. The man also
saw the murder occur. When
asked, turns out Armstrong is
pretty sure that it wasn't the
real Phoenix who wasn't at the
trial. Neat.

Present Maggey's profile after
you've asked about all three
topics. Seems that Armstrong
knows all about Maggey and
events about her in the past. He
says he isn't surprised about
what happened after something
like that happened before his
eyes. Could Maggey have a
motive, then? Now you can talk
about "Maggey's motive".
Armstrong won't come clear about
what Maggey's motive could have
been, and soon enough you will
find three Psyche-Locks over
him.

Phoenix also notices that the
Magatama is missing. What the
hell is going on here? Although,
since Phoenix could see the
Psyche-Locks, it means the
Magatama must be somewhere
closeby. He also says you should
go ask the Old Man who spends
his day in the nearby park. He's
in Vitamin Square. Move there
now.

-----------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
You will run into the grumpy Old
Man soon after entering Vitamin
Square, coupled with some catchy
music. Talk about "What you
saw". You'll just get nowhere.
Ask about "Maggey Byrde" and
"Tres Bien" after that, but the
Old Man just keeps getting angry
that you keep on pestering him.
After you do that, finding out
he hates how he hates the food
and the way the waitresses
dress, ask about "Tres Bien
regular". For this one, the Old
Man seems to completely avoid
the question. If you had the
Magatama, there probably would
be some Psyche-Locks on this
one.

Start examining the area. Aside
from being a kids' playground,
there is an orange slide on the
bottom-right corner of the
screen with a magazine sitting
on top of it. Examine it. The
magazine contains a bunch of job
listings. The Old Man exclaims
that he threw it away, and seems
quite angry at you. JOB LISTINGS
will be added to the Court
Record, whether the Old Man
likes it or not. Head back to
Tres Bien again.

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Present the Job Listings to
Armstrong. He looks right at
Maya and feels quite excited.
Looks like she's being
kidnapped...to be a waitress?
Well, that sure didn't work in
our favor. You'll need to go to
the Criminal Affairs Department,
but you're forced to stop at the
Detention Center along the way.

--------------------------------
Date-January 6 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Maggey is back in questioning,
apparently. She won't be back
for a while, so mosey on over to
the Criminal Affairs Department.

--------------------------------
Date-January 6 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Gumshoe
right when you enter. He seems
to be over- jubulent to give you
any information that he knows
for the case. Also helping you
further, he managed to get a
retrial scheduled for the
standard 10 AM tomorrow. Sadly,
Godot's going to be the
prosecutor for the trial this
time. We just can't get off easy
with Payne, can we? Gumshoe
still seems to be angry, and
tells you you better get Maggey
innocent, or else.

Ask about "Maggey Byrde". Turns
out that Gumshoe was her mentor
back when she was on the police
force. Gumshoe sure gets nervous
when you start to eye him in a
suspicious sort of way, but
yells that nothing special was
going on. Right. Seems liek
Gumshoe has a bit of a crush on
Maggey, eh? Haha. Gumshoe also
remarks that Phoenix's face
makes it blatantly obvious what
he's thinking. That explains why
everyone seems to read his mind.

Now talk about "The victim".
Gumshoe reveals the victim to be
Glen Elg, a computer programmer.
Maggey has never had any contact
with Glen before the day of the
murder. Not to mention, all she
did the day of the murder was
take the coffee to him. Maggey
also claimed to have never seen
the guy before. Armstrong also
said that this was Glen's first
time to the restaurant, and even
though it seems impossible for
Maggey to have a motive, one was
still eastablished during the
trial. Sadly, Gumshoe hasn't had
the chance to find it, yet.
You'll need to find out on your
own.

Talk about "The investigation"
afterwards. Gumshoe says that no
real investigation is going on,
and he's by himself for this
one. Poor Gumshoe. Gumshoe says
that there were some fatal
contradictions in Maggey's
testimony. Now you need to talk
about "Contradictions". The
largest problem is the number of
the people at the table. Maggey
says there were two, while
everyone else said there was
only one. Then there's the
matter of the CD.

When the place was thoroughly
examined, no CD was found. The
earpiece that Glen was wearing
was for the radio he was
holding. Why was there a CD when
Glen was using a radio?
Armstrong never mentioned
anything about the CD, so it
seems that he is hiding
something important.

So, naturally, present Jean
Armstrong's profile to Gumshoe.
He says that he can't help but
think that Armstrong has some
vital role to play within this
case. Talk about "The charming
chef". Gumshoe doesn't feel too
comfortable about explaining
what he knows about Armstrong,
and instead tells you to head
back to Tres Bien and figure it
out for yourself.

Now present the Magazine
Clipping. As Gumshoe puts it,
your phony blew chunks so hard
it's as if you were deliberately
trying to get a guilty verdict.
Now how does that make sense?
Present the Sports Paper after
this. Gumshoe seems to have
heard of the name MC Bomber
somewhere. He takes the
newspaper away from you for a
handwriting analysis. You'll be
getting it back later, no
worries.

Before heading back to Tres
Bien, you can examine the Blue
Badger in the back of the
office. Looks like it got
married to the Pink Badger. Aww!
Why am I caring about the police
mascot? Because I can! Blue
Badger rules!

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
A girl with a large bandage
wrapped around her head will pop
into the restaurant, then
quickly leaves. Armstrong comes
and greets you, yet again. Oh,
wait, that's Maya? Talk to her
about "Waitress". Maya seems to
be enjoying her new job. She'd
probably enjoy it more if there
were more customers.

Ask about the "Lunch special".
Maya gets excited at your talk
of the lunch special, and runs
off to go get one. Phoenix hates
the food, and so does Maya. TRES
BIEN LUNCH SPECIAL is packed
away into the Court Record.

Talk to Maya about "The
Kitchen". After Maya runs around
a bit, you will need to move to
the Kitchen.

---------------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien; Kitchen
---------------------------
What an odd looking kitchen.
Armstrong isn't in here at the
moment, so you should take the
time to snoop around a bit
before leaving. First off,
examine the bottle chest at the
bottom-right on the floor. It's
a chest full of aromatherapy
bottles, but one is
significantly different than the
others. It's contents are
unknown, and there is no label.
SMALL BOTTLE will be added to
the Court Record.

Now, examine the small green
object on the counter, close by
the stove. Hey, how'd the
Magatama get over here? MAGATAMA
will be added back into the
Court Record. Head back to
Vitamin Square. Hopefully we can
see if the Old Man was lying to
us or not.

-----------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
Sadly, the Old Man got tired of
whacking the birds with seeds
and took off. However, there's a
hot pink motorcycle lying in the
center of the park. Examine it.
The wheels and lights have been
destroyed, so it's pretty much
worthless at this point.

Suddenly, a crazy man appears
out of nowhere, demanding what
you're doing with his bike. He's
got really orange skin, sharp
spiky hair, and a tiger on his
overcoat. This guy thinks you've
totaled his bike, and yeah, he's
quite scary over the matter.
After Phoenix introduces
himself, the crazy tiger guy
calls himself the one and only
Phoenix Wright, then quickly
escapes. Looks like we found the
dork who has been impersonating
you.

Now really, how the hell was
anyone fooled by that idiot?
He's got orange skin!

SCOOTER data will be added to
the Court Record. Luckily for
you, though, the Old Man decides
to return to Vitamin Park at
this time. The Old Man saw your
entire bout with the tiger guy.
Now talk to him about "Tres Bien
Regular". Note how the checkmark
isn't there like before. Hmm. As
you could have already guessed,
three Psyche-Locks will quickly
appear over the Old Man. Still
seems to be an odd secret to
hide.

Well, there's nothing we can do
about it--at least, not yet.
Head back to the Criminal
Affairs Dept.

--------------------------------
Date-January 6 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will meet up with you
when you arrive. He has the lab
results from the handwriting
analysis, and there is no
question that Glen Elg was the
one who wrote the drawings and
words upon the newspaper. SPORTS
PAPER will be put back into the
Court Record.

Gumshoe still can't remember
where he has heard the words "MC
Bomber". Phoenix gets the idea
there's something he needs to
show Gumshoe from the
restaurant. Present the Small
Bottle to Gumshoe. Gumshoe will
ask for the bottle for a little
while, sending it to the lab for
an analysis on the contents of
it. These results could possibly
be important to the case.

Gumshoe now says that he's very
suspicious of Armstrong, and
that he knows a secret about
him. Talk to Gumshoe about
"Armstrong's secret". Gumshoe
agrees that the food in that
place is horrible, but the real
secret is that Armstrong is up
to his neck in debt. Gumshoe has
a copy of Armstrong's loan
contract, with a debt of nearly
half a million dollars. JEAN'S
LOAN CONTRACT will be added to
the Court Record.

If you check the contract, the
owner of the loan is a place
called Tender Lender. Fitting
name. This is the key item you
need, so head right back to
Vitamin Square. Time to get some
more vital information.

-----------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
Present the Magatama and get to
the bottom of this clown-nosed
man.

--------------------------------
~Old Man's Magatama Secret-Tres
Bien Regular~
--------------------------------
The Old Man keeps insisting that
he goes to Tres Bien to eat. You
will need to present some form
of evidence that proves nobody
in their right mind would want
to eat there. It's fairly simple
--present the Lunch Special.
Yeah, the Old Man finds the food
terrible too, but he thinks the
prices are cheap. That's only
because he's filthy rich from
money he inherited as a child.
He has never worked in his life.
He's got lot's of money to
spend.

Now he says that he goes there
daily because he has so much
money to spend. You will need to
present some evidence that
proves the Old Man is actually
quite poor. Present the Job
Listings. You found this, and
the Old Man protested to you
taking it. If he were rich, and
he hasn't worked in his entire
life as he claims, there would
be no reason that he's looking
for a job. The first lock
shatters.

Now the Old Man changes the
subject to there being some good
newspapers to read at Tres Bien,
saying that that is the main
reason that he keeps on going
there. You will need to present
some evidence that shows
newspapers can't be found at
Tres Bien. Present the Sports
Paper that you picked up. This
was the only kind of newspaper
in the restaurant, and it's over
a month old, none less. That
newspaper was just left behind
by a customer (a dead one,
but...). The second lock is
destroyed.

Now for some serious business.
You'll need to present the real
reason that the Old Man goes to
Tres Bien. You have nothing to
go on, but think back. It's
known for flowers, waitresses,
and food. The food sucks and I
doubt the Old Man like flowers.
So, it must be the attractive
waitress, yes? Present Maggey
Byrde's profile. The Old Man
protests that he doesn't know
the girl, and that's likely
true. He just like the uniform
they are wearing. The Old Man
goes crazy now that you've
revealed his secret, and the
final lock is crushed.
--------------------------------
Now you can ask about "Tres Bien
regular". What a creepy guy.
Looking at a girl just because
of the outfit. I can imagine
someone younger, but for an old
man, that's just wrong. He
finally says that his name is
Victor Kudo. Well, he still
won't say anything. Looks like
that Psyche-Lock sequence was a
waste of time. Ugh. Maybe if we
had someone to coax it out of
him? Head to Tres Bien.

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Present Victor Kudo's profile.
Maya agrees to come with Phoenix
back to Vitamin Park in her
waitress uniform.

-----------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
Victor doesn't seem to care for
Maya in that waitress uniform.
Looks like we will be needing
someone older to get Victor to
talk. Oh, Mia shows up to help
us, and not in court even! Um.
Yeah. Mia looks like...well,
it's pretty self-explanatory.
Those crazy Japanese people sure
know how to put the most
unexplainable stuff into their
games.

Now talk about "What you saw".
He says that he saw the entire
thing. Maggey took some coffee
over to Glen, saying that he was
alone for sure, and then after
just one sip, Glen fell over
dead. Seems like he didn't see
the second person at the table,
truly.

Now ask about "Tres Bien".
Victor acts a bit childish as he
blatantly lies to Mia. Now talk
about "Tres Bien regular". Mia
talks about the chef, but Victor
interrupts, saying that he's an
ex-con.

Now you should ask about
"Armstrong's record". As it
turns out, Armstrong steals
things from his customers.
They're just little things liek
gloves, but it's still stealing.
Armstrong was even arrested for
his small thefts one time.
Victor then decides to write a
short haiku for you to take
with. VICTOR'S NOTE will be
added to the Court Record.
Sadly, Mia will take her leave
once you get the note. Although,
with this, we can destroy the
Psyche-Locks Armstrong has.
Hopefully he's returned.

------------------
Date-January 6
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Present the Magatama, and let's
get down to busniess.

--------------------------------
~Jean Armstrong's Magatama
Secret-Maggey's Motive~
--------------------------------
Obviously, Armstrong holds very
important information you've
been keeping on hold. Armstrong
feels weird with the Magatama
active, and says that this was
over a lottery ticket. Glen had
a lottery ticket when he died,
for half a million dollars.
However, after the incident, the
ticket mysteriously disappeared.
This was the motive that the
prosecution gave for Maggey's
need to kill. They said she
poisoned the man to get the
lottery ticket. However, Phoenix
doubts this. You will need to
present the person who really
stole the lottery ticket.
Present Jean Armstrong's
profile.

The first lock crushes right
away. It makes sense, after all.
He does owe a huge half million
dollar debt, and the lottery
ticket conveniently fits that
amount. Now you will need to
prove that Armstrong is a
criminal and that he has stolen
in the past. Present Victor's
Note. If you read it, it is a
haiku on someone stealing stuff
multiple times, obviously
referring to Jean.

Armstrong will continue to deny
that he has stolen from people
in the past. Now you'll need
proof that he has stolen from
any of his customers. Present
the Magatama itself. You found
the Magatama in the kitchen,
remember? The second lock breaks
off. Normally, Armstrong steals
little things (like the
Magatama). But in question, we
think he stole a lottery ticket
worth $500,000. You'll need to
present something that shows
Armstrong is in some serious
need of money. Present Jean's
Loan Contract.

The lottery ticket would have
cleared up his debts, so it
makes sense. With that, the
final lock breaks, and you're
done.
--------------------------------
Now ask about "Maggey's motive".
Armstrong says that Glen was
listening to something with an
earpiece. He was listening to
the lottery numbers on the news,
and exploded when he heard that
he won half a million dollars.
All of his tickets were spread
out on the table. Armstrong was
in such a need of money that he
merely took one of the tickets
for himself. Was Maggey arrested
because of Armstrong's actions?

Ask about the "Winning ticket"
now. Armstrong admits to taking
the wrong ticket. Before you can
learn anything else, Godot
appears infront of you. Well,
Godot actually says Armstrong
has the wrong ticket. Godot
doesn't know what happened to
the real ticket. Victor's Note
will be thrown away now.

There's nothing left to do. Save
the game and get ready for
trial.

================================
       ~7B.Part 2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-January 7, 9:48 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Detective Gumshoe interrupts
your conversation with Maggey,
and mentions that he'll be the
first to testify. It will be up
to you to point out any facts
that are completely incorrect
with his testimony. Time for
court.

--------------------------------
Date-January 7, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
After comfirming that the real
Phoenix is in court today,
Gumshoe will appear at the
witness stand like he told you.
Gumshoe will outline the basic
facts of the case for everyone,
most of which you already know
well at this point. GLEN'S
AUTOPSY REPORT will be added to
the Court Record when he sends
it. Glen died of cyanide
poisoning sometime between 1:30
and 2:30 PM.

Gumshoe will also present the
floor plans to Tres Bien. Glen
Elg was sitting at the spot
marked "V" for the victim. The
red dot represent Maggey, who
took the coffee over to Glen.
The only other people in the
restaurant at this time were
Jean Armstrong and Victor Kudo,
as you have already found out.
TRES BIEN FLOOR PLANS will now
be added to the Court Record
once he has finished talking.

Gumshoe's now ready to testify
about the incident.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Testimony-
The Incident~
--------------------------------
-When the incident took place, t

-We understand that the guy, Gle
time.

-Traces of poison were found in 

-And what we found was potassium

-And, um...it looks like Ms. Byr
motive.

Press the first statement.
Phoenix will try to make the
point that Maggey saw another
person at the table, but Godot
says that everyone else who has
testified has said otherwise. Be
sure to "Press harder". Godot
will stop Phoenix, presenting a
new photo. This is a picture
taken from near the entrance to
the kitchen. Armstrong is the
one that took the picture, and
in it you can see Glen slumped
over on the table. The chair
opposite him clearly has nobody
in it.

From such an obvious standpoint,
how could anybody have missed
the second person? CRIME PHOTO
will be added to the Court
Record. Press the second
statement. "Press harder" about
the radio. You won't get
anywhere new, however. Press the
third statement after this.
After a bit more talk about
coffee, as well as what else
could have been put into it
(Glen put no other substances
into his coffee, other than the
staged powdery poison), "Press
harder".

As it turns out, the poison was
found on the coffee cup. Gumshoe
says that Phoenix may be right
when he says that Glen never
even drank his coffee. Godot
objects against Gumshoe, telling
him to present some evidence
that backs up his statements.
After some confusing statements,
Gumshoe presents the victim's
coffee cup. A coffee stain is
clearly visible on the edge of
the cup, proving that he did
indeed drink some of it. COFFEE
CUP will be added to the Court
Record.

Press the fourth statement.
You'll relearn that it took only
a tiny bit of cyanide for it to
be lethal to Glen. Now press the
final statement. Gumshoe is
forced to say, again, that
Maggey's main motive was that
she wanted to steal the winning
lottery ticket. The winning
ticket mysteriously disappeared
from the table when the crime
scene was checked. Choose to
"Press harder" on this one.

Godot then presents the winning
ticket himself. One of the
officers found it when they were
searching Maggey. VICTIM'S
LOTTERY TICKET will be added to
the Court Record. The Judge will
now end the cross examination,
seeing as how you are going
nowhere with this trial. All of
the evidence points towards
Maggey being guilty of this
crime. What's worse, Godot has
even more incriminating
evidence.

He presents Maggey's apron at
the time she was found. Looks
like she spilled some coffee
onto herself. Not only that, but
a bottle of cyanide was found on
the apron's pocket. Maggey's
prints were the only ones on it.
APRON will be added to the Court
Record. POTASSIUM CYANIDE will
be added to the Court Record.
Also note that Godot never
noticed the blood that was on
the apron in plain sight.

Gumshoe confirms, though, that
it's actually ketchup. Gumshoe
will now get to testify again
about the crime scene.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Testimony-
The Investigation~
--------------------------------
-The crime was reported at 2:25 

-Poor Maggey had passed out from
her.

-The victim didn't have any iden

-But we figured out who he was p
went smoothly.

-When Maggey was searched, we fo
poison.

-And that was it. There was noth

It's clear the contradiction is
at the last statement. What
isn't clear is the evidence you
need to prove that the police
missed something. To get it,
press the fourth statement. If
Glen had no form of
identification, then how exactly
did the police manage to find
out who he was quickly? Gumshoe
remarks that there was a
prescription bag left on the
table, along with a lottery
ticket. Glen's name was written
on the medical records on the
bag. "Ask about the prescription
bag" once you get the chance to.

The bag was found empty when
searched. VICTIM'S PRESCRIPTION
BAG will be added to the Court
Record. Godot thinks that you're
desprate for evidence, and it is
true. Because that is exactly
what you needed. Present the
Victim's Prescription Bag at the
last statement. First of all, it
wasn't until now that the
prescription bag has been
brought up. That's already a
seemingly worth contradiction
worth pointing out.

What is even more questioning is
why the bag was empty to begin
with. None of the police
investigators found the contents
of the bag. The medicine must
have gone somewhere. The victim
was killed by poison, and the
bag with "medicine" just happens
to vanish. Nothing is stopping
the medicine from being the
poison itself, right? Godot
isn't going down without a
fight, though. The bag reads
"New Ear Otolaryngological
Clinic". I love how doctors make
up the most strange and
unpronouncable words.

Glen isn't seriously ill that
he'd buy poison. Instead, he was
likely just buying something for
his eardrum which was injured in
a fight from not too long ago.
The prescription in the bag was
merely a cream used to be put on
the ear to repair the eardrum,
not something that was meant to
be ingested.

Godot mentions that this was in
the autopsy report. Glen added
some of the medical cream to his
ear while he was at Tres Bien.
It's absurd to even imagine that
he ate the cream. You'll have to
make a choice now on what to do
with the subject. Choose to
"Push the medication issue",
despite part of your health bar
flashing dangerously.

Phoenix brings up a good point.
If he applied the cream while at
Tres Bien, it should have been
found. Godot still points out
that whether or not the tube of
cream could be found is still
relevant to the case, but then
again, you normally wouldn't
expect it to be (much like you
wouldn't think your coffee is
going to kill you).

Gumshoe will report that he has
his own witness to call. It's
none other than Victor Kudo, as
you might have guessed. Well,
you have managed to buy yourself
some time from this issue. A
short recess will be given to
accomodate for the new witness.

--------------------------------
Date-January 7, 11:03 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
You, Maya, and Maggey will talk
shortly about what is going to
happen with Victor. Not much
else will happen in the interim
before you're forced right back
into court.

--------------------------------
Date-January 7, 11:15 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtoom No. 4
--------------------------------
Victor Kudo will take the stand,
looking as grouchy as ever.
After a bit of talking about
Japan and embrodery, Victor will
finally shut up and get to his
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Victor Kudo's Testimony-What I
Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-The young man was reading the s

-The serving girl brought him a 

-The man took one sip of it, loo
collapsed.

-That's the serving girl, right 
her well!

Phoenix will wonder at the end
since that Victor like looking
at the uniforms, perhaps it
wasn't Maggey he really saw. All
you can do it press the final
statement. Victor pretty much
admits that the only thing he
noticed about Maggey was her
outfit. Victor retaliates,
saying that there are other
features about her he remembers.
"Press harder" when asked.
Victor will add the other
features to his testimony:

-There was a ribbon in her hair,

There's nothing contradictory
yet. Press the new statement.
Victor will prove that he did
see Maggey's face quite well, so
there goes the possibility that
he didn't see it. When Phoenix
is able to ask another question,
choose "Ask about the waitress's
back". All of the feature's he's
given are about the back of the
uniform, making it possible he
never saw it from the front.
Another new statement about the
front of Maggey is added:

-There wasn't anything that caug
from the front.

Press this new statement. Victor
continues to ramble on that he
did see Maggey's face clearly.
However, there's somthing else
he should have noticed. Present
the Apron at this new statement.
Victor states that he has never
seen this before. However, that
would be impossible if he
actually saw Maggey from the
front. Now he's going to give a
testimony on what he (poorly)
remembers about the victim.

--------------------------------
~Victor Kudo's Testimony-About
the Victim~
--------------------------------
-He was another of those pesky y
spectacles.

-He had a newspaper in his right
pages!

-The young man was listening to 

-Then the serving girl in questi

-The little fidget picked up the

Start off by pressing the final
statement. Victor will continue
to push that he was holding the
newspaper with his right hand,
confirming that he held the cup
of coffee with his left hand.
Therein lies the problem of this
statement. Present the Coffee
Cup at the final statement.

Look at the coffee cup more
closely when Phoenix examines
it. Note the mark of coffee left
by the victim. Now, this mark
could only be left here if the
cup was held like it is shown--
by the right hand. However,
Victor claims that Glen held the
coffee cup with his left hand.
If that were the case, then the
coffee mark would be on the
opposite side of the cup than it
is now.

Victor will continue to insist
that Glen was holding the coffee
cup with his left hand. Godot
will give Victor another chance
at testifying, but it will have
to be quick.

--------------------------------
~Victor Kudo's Testimony-Left
Hand or Right Hand~
--------------------------------
-The boy was wearing the earpiec
his specs.

-He kept fiddling with it all th

-He was fiddling with it just be

-And then he used the same hand 

It turns out that, if you didn't
already know since you haven't
seen something of the sort on
TV, the monacle over Glen's eye
is actually a small computer
screen. This'll be important
information later. For now,
press the first statement of the
testimony. Looking at the floor
plans, Victor would have easily
noticed the earpiece in the left
ear, the same as the specs being
on the left eye.

But, that's impossible. Present
the Victim' Prescription Bag.
Glen's eardrum was ruptured in
his left ear. It was impossible
for him to hear anything.
There's no way he would have an
earpiece in that ear. After
singing a short tune, Victor
starts getting upset that he's
becoming quite worthless, and
damaging the prosecution's
statements.

Godot tries saying that Glen
switched hands after the first
sip, but Victor has already said
that he died after just one sip
of his coffee. Looks like
Victor's testimonies are
worthless. Nice. But, Victor
will stop the Judge before he
ends the trial for the day.
Seems that Victor has been
withholding some special
information nobody else knows.

--------------------------------
~Victor Kudo's Testimony-The
Final Showdown~
--------------------------------
-First of all, I want to stress 
sure of myself.

-The young boy slumped over the 
javaccino...

-Well, the clumsy idiot upset th

-It broke, and the strip of clot
soaked.

-Well? How about that? Turned th

No, you didn't do anything but
stall this trial longer then it
should have gone, old man.
Present the Crime Photo at the
third statement. If you check
the photo, you will notice that
the vase is sitting upright just
infront of Glen.

After all this pestering, he
will remember that the broken
vase he's referring to was
actually on his own table. Well,
that proved to be a total waste
of time. You will be given
another day to sort all of the
facts out, but are you able to
do it? Victor was so insistant
that his testimony would be of
use, you'll be given a summary.
VICTOR'S TESTIMONY will be put
into the Court Record.

================================
   ~7C.Part 3 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-January 7, 12:52 PM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
You and Maya will talk about how
horrible the trial went this
morning. Talk about "What to
do". Phoenix thinks that
Victor's testimony might
actually be of important use
later. Maybe. Talk about "Any
ideas" next. After re-
collecting on the phony Phoenix
Wright, there needs to be some
reason that this guy wanted to
impersonate him.

Start off the investigation by
moving to the Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-January 7 Location-
Detention Center; Vistor's Room
--------------------------------
Maggey is back in questioning,
and she probably won't be out
for quite a while. For now, head
back over to Tres Bien.

------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
It will seem empty at first, but
then you will hear Gumshoe
yelling at the radio he is
holding. Seems that he's trying
to win something at the lottery,
but ends up failing. He's also
eating some awful lunch here.
Talk to Gumshoe about "Today's
trial".

Gumshoe will feel all sad and
upset that he let Maggey down in
court by having decent
testimonies. Then, in true Von
Karma fashion, proceeds to bang
his head against the wall. Once
he returns, talk about the
"Lunch special". Gumshoe will
take a few seconds to describe
the Twin-T set that he was
eating earlier. He, too, thinks
that it was real horrible. Now
ask about "The radio" he was
listening to.

Well, a Psyche-Lock appears over
Gumshoe. Not sure why--it was
fairly obvious he was listening
to the lottery. Present the
Magatama and let's roll.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Magatama
Secret-The Radio~
--------------------------------
Phoenix will need to present
some evidence that makes it
pretty clear what the program
has was listening to is. Present
the Victim's Lottery Ticket. The
solitary lock breaks, and now
you can continue on with
business. That wasn't exciting!
--------------------------------
Now ask about "The radio". As
you found out when you entered
Tres Bien, Gumshoe won next to
nothing. He bought the same kind
of ticket as Glen Elg did. This
is probably the same program
Glen was listening to right
before he died. It's 1:30 right
now, and they are broadcasted at
the same time each day. Gumshoe
will present an advertisement
for it. MILLIONAIRE RADIO FLYER
will be added to the Court
Record.

Present Glen Elg's profile to
Gumshoe next. Gumshoe won't say
anything else that's new, but he
does mention you should check
out the place he worked. He
worked at Blue Screens, Inc. You
can now move there, so proceed
to do just that.

---------------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Blue Screens, Inc.
---------------------------
It's the Blue Screen Of Death!

Nah, but it is a high-tech
company. You will meet up with
Lisa Basil, a woman with an
interesting blue suit on. She
says you can't thoroughly
examine the area due to the
possibility of a company
compromise. Note that she shares
the same eyewear that Glen had.
Now you can finally talk to her.

Ask about "Blue Screens, Inc.".
Their job here is a bit
confusing to understand, but it
basically is composed of them
getting information from other
companies and analyzing them, as
well as writing important
programs of their own. All of
their programs are recorded onto
CD's. Now ask about "What
happened".

Lisa isn't able to tell you, nor
the police officer that was here
earlier, anything because Maggey
has nothing to do with Blue
Screens. Thusly, she has no
information on the subject.
However, she will allow you to
take anything off of Glen's desk
ahead of you, which has yet to
be cleared out.

Present Glen's profile before
you do so. Lisa says that,
although Glen was a programming
genious, he was a bit of a
loser. And that it got him
into... trouble? Ask about
"Glen's troubles" next. It'll
make sense why she stopped mid-
sentence. Three Psyche-Locks
will appear over her. Unlike
Gumshoe's, Lisa's won't be
breakable for quite a while.

Start the examination. Examine
all of the papers on the ground
below Glen's desk. You will find
a ton of horse betting tickets.
Seems that all of these tickets
were losses, though. Now it
seems apparent why he's so poor.
GLEN ELG'S LOSING HORSE RACING
TICKETS will be added to the
Court Record. How many are
there? Over five-hundred!

Look at the small orange-purple
object that's actually a man on
a racing horse when examined up
close, a calander perched onto
it. December 3rd is marked in
red pen on it. That's the day he
was murdered. It also reads
"Meet with The Tiger". Hmm.
Wonder what that means? GLEN'S
CALANDER will be added to the
already messy Court Record.

You're job is done here--for
now. Head over to the Tres Bien
Kitchen this time.

---------------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tres Bien; Kitchen
---------------------------
Armstrong is talking to someone
when you enter. It's the girl
with a large bandage over her
head, saying something about
being back next month. She
mentions that if Armstrong
doesn't have "something" then
the future will look bleak for
him. Seems that she likes fire.
After speaking some nonsense to
Armstrong, she will finally
leave.

Talk about "Tres Bien" when you
get the chance to. Armstrong is
ready to do whatever it takes to
keep the restaurant alive, no
matter what the cost. After
this, talk about "The woman just
now". Phoenix gets the idea that
he knows what the two of them
were talking about. Do you think
you know what they were talking
about?

In any case, present Jean's Loan
Contract. Seems that Armstrong
made a deal with that strange
lady earlier, but is unable to
tell you what they were talking
about for fear of getting
killed, or something.

Now ask about "The woman just
now" again. As you may have
guessed, that woman was from the
loaning office. The same place
he loaned half a million dollars
from--Tender Lender. Perhaps
they have some importance to
this case. Talk about "Tender
Lender" when you finish.
Armstrong has some spending
issues, and over time managed to
get himself into a half million
dollar debt. Armstrong is being
forced to do everything by a man
called The Tiger. He's the
manager of Tender Lender. He
also rides a battered scooter. I
bet you know this guy well.

Tender Lender is just beyond
Vitamin Square, so you can move
there now. Proceed to do so.

------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Gumshoe will only be in here for
another moment. He's got another
important meeting to attend to,
so you won't be in contact with
him for a while. Head to Vitamin
Square. Before you can, though,
Gumshoe stops you again. He asks
you to take something to Maggey
when you are able to. GUMSHOE'S
LUNCHBOX will be added to the
Court Record.

-----------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
That pink scooter is back. Must
mean The Tiger is somewhere
nearby. Head over to Tender
Lender.

----------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tender Lender
----------------------
You will see the bandage-wearing
woman when you enter Tender
Lender, but she won't stick
around for long. She urges you
not to touch The Tiger's desk.
Screw the rules, we're a defense
attorney. Start by examining the
the large headline above the
desk hanging on the wall. It
reads "Win Through Compromise".
It's Tender Lender's guiding
principle, as that weird woman
puts it.

Now examine the pink CD player
that totally stands out on the
desk. Before Phoenix gets
further then saying lid is open,
the woman comes back, saying you
should drink more coffee if you
finished it all already. Perhaps
there was something in the
coffee? The CD inside the player
is a demo CD reading "MC
Bomber". MC BOMBER will be added
to the Court Record.

Now look at the coats hanging on
the wall. Examine the blue won
on the left. This suit looks
surprising similar to the one
that Phoenix wears. Again,
before you get the chance to
examine further, the creepy
woman will pop in again,
probably warning you not to
touch anything. However, on the
lapel of the blue suit is an
Attorney's Badge. Problem is,
this one is made out of paper.
PAPER BADGE is added to the
Court Record. Now we know how he
managed to fool the court.

Now check out the fallen object
on the bottom-right corner of
the screen. This is actually an
ashtray. Maya notices a packet
of matches near the ashtray.
Tres Bien is written on the back
of these matches. Hmm. TRES BIEN
MATCHES will be added to the
Court Record.

But before you can do anything
else, a familar roar will occur.
Sounds like The Tiger is coming
back. He sure doesn't look happy
when he sees you in his office.
The bandaged woman calls the guy
Don Tigre, saying that she was
the one who knocked the ashtray
over. The Tigre
seems...sympathetic over that.
What? After that, The Tiger
talks to Phoenix about you
messing up his plan. He then
takes his leave. The Tiger also
calls the girl Viola, and after
he leaves you are able to talk
to her.

Talk about "Tender Lender".
Viola will just talk slowly and
calmly, calling Tender Lender a
small, family owned business and
that it has a warm atmosphere.
Yeah, not when it's employees
seem this creepy. Talk about
"What happened" when she's done
rambling. She says that during
the time of the incident, she
was talking to Furio Tigre
(that's his real name). Now the
he's been added to the profiles
list, present Furio Tigre's
profile.

Viola will say, after some more
persuasion, that she and Tigre
are lovers. She also says that
it's Tigre that saved her life
at one time. Now you should ask
"Saved your life?". She says
that recently she died. It
happened about four months ago,
and the doctors thought it was
hopeless. It was Tigre that
managed to save her, though,
giving up almost everything to
do so. But is that why she has a
head bandage?

Ask about "The head bandage". It
was put on after the injury. She
won't get you much further in
the question before four Psyche-
Locks appear over her-- the most
you've seen yet. Before you
leave for the moment, examine
the bookshelf to the left of the
desk. After talking about some
Japanese items, Maya will notice
a piece of paper. It's for a
repair bill for Tigre's car.
It's for $15,000 as well, just
for a bumper and new light.
However, the car isn't
registered to Tigre, but someone
else instead. REPAIR BILL will
be added to the Court Record.
You've got some work to do. Head
back to Vitamin Square.

-----------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Vitamin Square
-----------------------
Victor will have returned to the
park, whether you like it or
not. And he's madder then ever.
Talk the man about "Today's
trial". He seems upset that
everyone will be mocking him for
looking at the waitress's
uniform instead of her face. He
still seems confident that he
saw Maggey put something into
the coffee, and he's sure that
Glen was wearing an earpiece on
the same side he had his
earpiece. He seems upset, that's
for sure.

Talk about "Embroiderer" next.
Victor will continue to ramble
on about how he's been cast
aside in society, then says that
he's ready to explode in
frustration. Choose to "Suck it
up" when asked if you want to
hear his rants. He says all he's
good for is running errands. He
also mentions that he gets in
the way at the restaurant as
well. He was asked for an errand
during the day Glen was
murdered.

Now ask about "The 'errand'".
While he was in the restaurant,
right after Maggey collapsed
from Glen's death, Armstrong
asked Victor to call the police.
Victor was still dazed, so he
took his time finding a nearby
pay phone. He wondered around
for about five minutes to find
one. During these five minutes,
Armstrong was alone in the
restaurant.

What does this mean? There are
five minutes that we don't know
anything about. Armstrong could
have easily arranged the crime
scene in that huge amount of
time before the police were
contacted. You'll need some more
information on the subject, and
I'm guessing Armstrong is the
best place to start. Head over
to the Tres Bien Kitchen.

---------------------------
Date-Januray 7
Location-Tres Bien; Kitchen
---------------------------
Armstrong isn't in here, right
when you really needed him to
be. We'll have to check back
later. Head over to the
Detention Center now.

--------------------------------
Date-January 7 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Luckily, Maggey is finally done
with whatever business she had
to do. Maggey will say that it
isn't just Victor that had an
off testimony. Everybody who has
testified to this point has said
something that interferes with
what she actually saw. Talk
about these "Contradictions".
Again, the biggest contradiction
to this point is how nobody else
saw the second person at the
table. This interferes with
Victor's testimony, which said
that Maggey poisoned the coffee,
not the man at the table.

Also note that the MC Bomber CD
wasn't found at the crime scene.
Ask about "After the Incident"
next. She accounts that during
the time of the death to when
the police started
investigating, she had no idea
what was going on. After telling
her what Victor said, Maggey
starts to think that maybe it
was Armstrong that set her up.

Present Victor's Testimony to
her (heh, it does have a use).
She says she still feels a bit
uneasy. Now you can talk about
"Victor's Testimony". Firstly,
the fact he was testifying was a
bit odd to her. Not to mention,
there was someone else in the
cafe at the time. This person
was a woman who seemed a bit
creepy with an odd laugh. Sounds
like Viola was also present
during the murder.

Before you go, fulfill Gumshoe's
promise and present Gumshoe's
Lunchbox. The lunch will be
eaten by you and Maya since
Maggey will completely refuse
the offering. Head over to the
Criminal Affairs Dept., now!

--------------------------------
Date-January 7 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
There seems to be a problem with
the mainframe of the detectives'
computers right now. There's
nothing you can do about it.
Gumshoe will appear, and he says
you shouldn't be here right now.
There's a virus ripping through
the computers here.

Start talking to Gumshoe about
"Tender Lender". He warns you to
never borrow from a place like
that. The main problem with the
business is that it's a crazy
suspicious loan shark. They must
have hit some serious trouble as
of late, because they have been
calling back all of their loans.
He also mentions about some lady
you shouldn't upset. Again, it
should be obvious who she is.
Present Violett'a profile.
Gumshoe will reveal her last
name to be Cadaverini, the only
daughter of Bruto Cadaverini.

The picture of that guy is
pretty creepy as well. He also
says that these people are far
too powerful for the police
force here to tackle. Now you
can talk about "The
Cadaverinis". This family has
some serious power in the
criminal underworld. They have
so much money that it's
impossible for the police to
touch them. They bascially
control the black market. So,
what is the daughter of a mafia
boss doing at Tender Lender?

Now ask about "Computer
viruses". Seems that neither
Maya, nor Gumshoe, have any idea
what a virus is. Since your
using a computer to read this
text file, I am sure you know
something about them yourself.
Now ask about "What's a virus?".
Phoenix will explain the basics
of computer viruses in basic
terms. Gumshoe asks if all
viruses have names, and then
remarks that he may have heard
the name to this virus
somewhere. Do you know about it?

Presend the MC Bomber compact
disc that you recovered from
Tigre's desk. Gumshoe suddenly
remembers that MC Bomber is the
same thing written on the Sports
Paper. Not only that, but it's
the name of the virus itself. MC
Bomber has been infected all of
the computers in the station.
Now we're getting somewhere.

Ask about the "MC Bomber" next.
The detectives here found out
about the virus a while ago. A
group of criminals issued some
demands to the department,
threatening to release the virus
if they weren't met. Gumshoe
says that the person who created
the virus must have been a real
genious. The only thing they can
do is trace the route of the
virus on the black market. Turns
out this virus was put on sale,
possibly for millions of
dollars. MC BOMBER data will be
updated in the Court Record.

Gumshoe then asks how the deal
with giving the lunchbox to
Maggey went. Before Maya gets
the chance to explain what
happened, Gumshoe hands you a
second lunchbox to deliver.
GUMSHOE'S LUNCHBOX will be added
to the Court Record yet again.

We're almost done. Let's head to
Blue Screens, Inc. and break
Lisa Basil's Psyche-Locks.
Remember those?

---------------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Blue Screens, Inc.
---------------------------
Present the Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Lisa Basil's Magatama Secret-
Glen's Troubles~
--------------------------------
Lisa sure isn't going to give up
this secret easily. You will
start by needing to present
something that could be the
cause of Glen's troubles.
Present the Losing Horse Racing
Tickets. Lisa says that these
tickets are not a good way to
come to the conclusion that Glen
had a gambling habit. You will
need to present something that
shows his gambling habits
weren't kept to just horse
races. Present the Victim's
Lottery Ticket.

He's lost pretty much everything
he has attempted. That has to
have put a large hole into his
wallet. Perhaps it's so bad that
he has to attempt something
drastic. The first lock will be
destroyed. Lisa will point out
that all of the troubles would
go away if he won. And look, he
had the ticket for half a
million dollars. You will need
to present the problem before
that, with someone or something
even more scary then that.
Present Furio Tigre's profile.

Lisa will go on and say that she
doesn't know any connection
between Glen and Tigre. You'll
need to present something that
ties both of them together.
Present Glen's Calander. They
agreed to meet eachother on the
same day, obviously to talk
about his loan. With that, the
second lock will crush. As it
turns out, Glen had racked up a
$100,000 debt with Tigre from
all of his betting habits.

However, what if Glen didn't win
the lottery? And then what? Lisa
says that Glen would use his
talents to make the money. You
will need to present a program
worth at least $100,000. Present
MC Bomber. The final lock will
crush, and you're all done.
--------------------------------
Now you can ask about "Glen's
troubles". Lisa will finally
admit that Glen really was
$100,000 in the hole. Glen
mentioned that he would be
dealing with some risky work.
Now ask about "Risky extra work"
to pursue to main question.

Glen was the person who created
the virus. She says that one the
black market, such a virus would
fetch millions of dollars. The
December 3rd date on the
calander was Glen's deadline for
repaying his debt. MC BOMBER
will be updated again in the
Court Record. The Losing Horse
Racing Tickets will be thrown
away.

All that's left are the Psyche-
Locks for Viola. Head over to
Tender Lender. Present MC Bomber
to Lisa if you wish before you
leave. I'm glad they managed to
fit that meme in there.

----------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tender Lender
----------------------
Present the Magatama again.
Let's go. Hopefully this won't
be another Matt Engarde or
anything.

--------------------------------
~Viola Cadaverini's Magatama
Secret-The Head Bandage~
--------------------------------
That head bandage came from some
incident, and you need to
present some evidence that
relates to it. Present the
Repair Bill. Viola will say that
this shouldn't have anything to
do with her since she never gave
you a formal introduction.
You'll need to prove that she
has a strong relationship with
the Cadaverinis. Present Bruto
Cadaverini's profile. After a
bit of silence, the first lock
will be destroyed.

She was in one of her family's
cars, and ended up hitting
someone on a motorbike who cut
her off. She says that the
person who hit her just ran off,
but Phoenix thinks otherwise.
You'll need to present the
person who "ran off". Present
Furio Tigre's profile. The
second lock will break off.

Viola refuses to believe that it
was Don Tigre that managed to
hit her. But, you'll need to
present something that
contradicts her and shows he was
in a traffic accident. Present
the Scooter. This scooter is the
one that Tigre loves to ride
around on, and the front of it
is severely damaged. With that,
the third lock breaks.

Tigre was the one that paid for
the repair bill. Viola still
claims that it was him who saved
her life. After the operation
was over, Tigre told Viola that
he did it because he cared about
her. You will need to present a
profile that shows the real
reason Tigre wanted to pay for
the operation. Present Bruto
Cadaverini's profile again. She
mentions the price of the
operation was one million
dollars, and the final lock
breaks.
--------------------------------
Now you can ask about "The head
bandage". When she woke up from
the accident, doctors told her
it wouldn't be too hard to pull
off. But, it did cose one
million dollars. Bruto ordered
Tigre to fess up the money. This
might have something to do with
this case.

Ask about the "Compensation"
next. Viola wanted to believe
that Tigre's paying off of her
operation had nothing to do with
Bruto, but she knows the truth.
Tigre's method of getting the
money was evil. Viola also
helped Tigre get the money.
VIOLA'S MEDICAL PAPERS will be
added to the Court Record when
she gives them to you. The
Repair Bill will get thrown
away.

Hopefully you're not too shaken
up. Just a few more seconds of
business and the investgation
will be over. Head to Tres Bien.

------------------
Date-January 7
Location-Tres Bien
------------------
Armstrong is finally back. Seems
that he has been talking to
Tigre about some loans. Tigre
will demand that you hand over
the medical papers that Viola
just gave you. We didn't get
those for nothing! Armstrong
then punches Phoenix onto the
ground in an attempt to get the
papers.

Before it's all over, Gumshoe
arrives on the scene and orders
you to leave. Time to destroy
Furio Tigre in court! Save the
game.

================================
      ~7D.Part 4-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 9:46 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
You've got to pin the murder on
the real person, and get Maggey
innocent in the process. Gumshoe
appears, handing you the bottle
you found in Tres Bien several
days ago. Gumshoe's hear with
the analysis from the lab. This
stuff is medication, and used
only for the ears. It's without
a doubt the one that Glen was
using. SMALL BOTTLE will be
added to the Court Record again.
The lab didn't have any time to
check the fingerprins, though.
Time for trial.

--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
Godot says that Victor has been
lying, and he's ready to prove
it. The first witness will be
Armstrong. Oh god. He'll testify
about what went down in Tres
Bien yesterday.

--------------------------------
~Jean Armstrong's Testimony-At
Tres Bien~
--------------------------------
-When it all 'appened, z'ere wer

-I remember I was experimenting 

-Like 'aving a large mirror betw

-Oui! Per'aps z'at is what la ol

-La cup, la earpiece and la glas
reverse, non?

And the mystery of Victor's
testimony is cleared up. There
was a mirror there. Or was
there? Press the final
statement. You will refer to
Victor's testimony where he said
the earpiece was worn on the
same side that the HMD was worn
on. That being his left ear, and
then he picked up the cup of
coffee with his left hand. If
there was a mirror, every
instance of left would be right.

Present Glen's profile at the
final statement. Glen is wearing
the specs on his left eye.
That's the ONLY thing Victor got
right in his testimony. The HMD
would be on the right side if
everything was seen through a
mirror. That isn't right. Godot
then steps in, saying that the
more of an impression something
makes on Victor's mind, the more
confusing it becomes. The HMD
made an impression on Victor, so
it's likely Victor got totally
confused here.

Now, why did Victor think this
about the mirror? Armstrong will
be talking about it in more
detail next.

--------------------------------
~Jean Armstrong's Testimony-The
Mirror~
--------------------------------
-La mirror, it was in z'e middle

-Z'ere is only one seat from whi
victim.

-Z'at was la seat at z'e table n
man was sitting.

-After la terrible incident occu
z'e way.

-But naturally, I did not touch 

Now this is starting to get
confusing. If there was a
mirror, at least one of the
other people in the restaurant,
including Maggey, would have
noticed something. But they
didn't. Thusly, no mirror could
have been there. Press the final
statement. Phoenix is sure that
Armstrong is lying here. And he
is--present the Crime Photo.

Something in the photo should
not exist, according to
Amrstrong's current testimony.
You will need to point to the
spot that is inconsistant with
the testimony. Point to and
present the vase on the left
table of the picture. The vase
should not be on this table, as
it clearly contradicts another
piece of evidence. Present
Victor's Testimony. If Victor
was sitting at the table in the
Crime Photo, then the vase
should clearly have been broken.

It isn't, so this means that
Victor wasn't sitting at the
table next to Glen. He was, as
he stated earlier, sitting
diagonally from him. The only
possible conclusion from this is
that there wasn't a mirror in
Tres Bien at that time. Godot
seems to be at a loss of words
as Phoenix keeps objecting
against him.

Godot will let the burden of
finding how Victor was confused
about the earpiece fall onto
you. Remember that Maggey said
another person was at the table,
and there was the sample CD. The
reason behind all of these
contradictions is "The victim
was a phony". The incident
Victor saw, and the one that
actually happened, were two
totally different events. The
victim Victor saw wasn't the
real Glen. It was merely an
imposter. There was nothing
wrong with his eardrum, so
that's where that mistake came
from.

Someone acted out this whole
seen just so Victor could become
a witness. The whole point of
this was to show Victor that
Maggey was poisoning the coffee.
Armstrong will be forced to
explain what really happened in
Tres Bien in light of these new
discoveries.

--------------------------------
~Jean Armstrong's Testimony-In
the Restaurant~
--------------------------------
-La victim, Monsieur Elg, 'e cam

-I remember la old man arrived n

-Z'ere were no other customers.

-When 'e got word 'e won la lott

-It was approximately 5 minutes 

-Non, z'ere was no time for a ph

Press the second statement. You
need more details! When Phoenix
thinks of another question to
ask, choose "What time was it?".
After remembering things a bit
more clearly, Armstrong says he
arrived at about 2:00 to 2:10
PM. The following statement will
be added to the testimony:

-I remember la old man arrived n

Press this statement. Armstrong
will say that after what you
mentioned, he is absolutely sure
that Victor came in shortly
after 2 PM. This is not
possible, though. Present the
Millionaire Radio Flyer at the
new statement. The radio show is
broadcast at 1:30 PM every day.
The show lasts for about ten
minutes, and after that, Glen
was excited that he finally won.
This means that there is a huge
thirty minute gap between when
Glen won the radio lottery and
when Victor entered the
restaurant.

The victim that Victor saw,
then, could not have won the
lottery because the broadcast
was over. This makes it
blindingly obvious that the
victim was a fake. There's the
real Glen, dead from poisoning,
and the fake one who faked a
death. Godot will object, asking
where the real Glen is. You will
have to say where the missing
corpse has managed to wonder off
to. Where could the killer have
hid the body?

You will need to choose that the
body was hidden "Inside Tres
Bien". The floor plans will
appear on screen. You will need
to point to the location that
the body was hidden. Point to
the Kitchen. Now you need to
present some evidence that
completely backs up this theory.
Present the Small Bottle. It was
found in the Kitchen, and this
bottle clearly belonged to Glen.
It must have been Armstrong that
hid Glen's body.

All along, this means Armstrong
was working to get Maggey
convicted. Armstrong will keep
saying that he didn't kill Glen,
though. Armstrong has only one
more chance to explain himself.

--------------------------------
~Jean Armstrong's Testimony-The
Confession~
--------------------------------
-It is true, I 'id la body in la

-A man forced me to do it. I 'ad

-I 'ad to go along w'iz 'im beca
refuse.

-But I did not kill 'im! I swear

Before the testimony, Armstrong
will finally admit to there
being another person at the
table. Aha! This means that
Maggey was telling the truth the
entire time. Now you just need
to find the real killer.
Pressing these statements will
get you nothing but complaining
from Armstrong, so shut him up
and present Furio Tigre's
profile at the second statement.

Amrstrong looks nervous when you
present his profile. You will
need to present some evidence
that shows why Armstrong
couldn't go against Tigre.
Present Jean's Loan Contract.
Tigre told Armstrong he was
going to use the restaurant as a
business making location. He met
up with Glen. He then dragged
Glen and Maggey into the kitchen
once the deed was done. However,
Armstrong didn't frame Maggey
for the crime.

Furio Tigre will be called to
the stand. You're given a thirty
minute recess. Save the game.

================================
      ~7E.Part 4-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 1:21 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Phoenix says that without proof,
there is no way that anything
Armstrong said was true. You're
going to need some case-breaking
evidence to get to the bottom of
this one. Gumshoe appears,
saying he's about to return to
the Criminal Affairs Dept. for a
little while. He's able to get
some fingerprint analysis done
in that time.

When asked, present the Small
Bottle for him to take. You have
to stall the trial long enough
for the bottle to get back here.
Back into court!

--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 1:56 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
Godot managed to find Tigre, and
after scaring almost everyone in
the courtroom, including the
Judge, perhaps we can finally
hear some testimony. He'll talk
about what he did the day of the
murder.

--------------------------------
~Furio Tigre's Testimony-The
Tiger's Alibi~
--------------------------------
-I don't know nothin' about not 

-I was tied up with business in 
my office.

-I got whales lined up to borrow

-Youse wanna check my alibi, jus

Before you can cross examine
Tigre, the Judge will be so
scared to Tigre that if you
press him on irrelevant
information, you will lose 1/5th
of the health bar. Be wary.

Press only the second statement.
What's important is what Tigre
did on the day of the murder, so
"Press harder". Tigre will yell
that he never set foot outside
of his office on December 3rd.
He also says he never saw Glen
before. The following statement
will be added to his testimony:

-The day youse talkin' about, I 
before.

Present Glen's Calander at this
new statement. At the least,
Glen knew Tigre. Tigre had to
have known him, though, since he
was going to meet with Glen.
Looks like Tigre is going to
have to testify again.

--------------------------------
~Furio Tigre's Testimony-The
Victim, Glen Elg~
--------------------------------
-I ain't no liar. I never met Gl

-There was some lame guy with th
from me.

-I set up a meetin' with the guy

-I waited around for him, but he

-I ain't never even been to that

Present the Tres Bien Matches at
the final statement. If Tigre
had really never been to Tres
Bien before, he wouldn't have
had those matches lying in his
office. He finally admits to
being at Tres Bien, however, he
says he still never met Glen.
Time for more testimony!

--------------------------------
~Furio Tigre's Testimony-At Tres
Bien~
--------------------------------
-I was supposed to meet wid the 

-When I opened the door to the j

-The guy was laid out over the t

-I figured if the place wasn't h

-I heard the cop's sirens on my 
office.

This contradiction is slightly
more elaborate, but nonetheless,
present the Tres Bien Floor
Plans at the third statement.
Look closely at the floor plans.
The small quarter of a circle-
shaped piece at the top right of
the map is the entrance. When
Tigre entered the restaurant,
there would be no possible way
for him to see Glen slumped over
the table. There is a tall
partition between the entrance
and the table Glen was sitting
in.

The only way he saw Glen was if
he actually met him. Now Phoenix
says that in order for Victor to
have seen Glen alone at the
table later in the day, the real
killer staged a fake death. Who
is this killer? When asked, you
should know to present Furio
Tigre's profile.

Godot will go back over Victor's
testimony. He still saw the
waitress put something into the
coffee. However, Phoenix says
that it is entirely possible
that the waitress was also part
of the act. You'll need to
present the profile of the
person who poised as Maggey.
Present Viola Cadaverini's
profile.

Remember, Maggey said that
another person who fits the
description of Viola was also in
the restaurant. This makes it so
that only Tigre could have
committed the crime. Yet again,
more testimony about Tigre
interaction with Glen that day.

--------------------------------
~Furio Tigre's Testimony-Ties to
the Victim~
--------------------------------
-Yeah, I loaned Elg cash. About 

-That day, we was due to have a 
date, see?

-So anyway, he tells me he's got

-I'm about to flatten the guy, w

-"Yesss! I won! Half a million b

-If that waitress hadn't done wh

You have limited time to prove
Tigre had some motive to kill
Glen. Since he just won enough
money to pay his debt, there's
no obvious reason. At least, you
won't find one until you press
the final statement. When Tigre
gets done ranting, "Ask how
things would've been". He says
that he was only after the cash.
The following statement will be
added to the testimony:

-I was after the $100,000. I did

This one's tricky. Present MC
Bomber. The money isn't what
Tigre was really after. MC
Bomber is worth a ton of money,
and Glen put up his skill as a
programmer as collateral for
repayment. Tigre needed that
program worth millions of
dollars. You need to present
some evidence that shows he
needed one million dollars.
Present Viola's Medical Papers.

Tigre paid off that debt, not
because he wanted to, but
because he had no choice but to.
His very life depended on it. He
was desperate to get his hands
on one million dollars so Bruto
didn't kill him. Tigre had to
kill Glen to get the money. He
was going to get the CD on the
day of the murder, as was
planned. But, Glen just happened
to win half a million on the
lottery.

This left Tigre without a viable
way of getting his hands on the
CD. He murdered Glen for the CD,
then pinned the murder on
Maggey. Tigre posed as the fake
Glen, while Viola posed as
Maggey. They did this all to
make a witness. Armstrong was
easily manipulated throughout
this ordeal because he owed
Tigre a ton of money as well.

But this would make it too easy
to pin the crime on him,
backfiring everything. For his
final trick, present the Paper
Badge. Looks like we finally
revealed Tigre to be the fake
Phoenix Wright for everyone.
Tigre tries to get himself out
of this hole, and pretty much
succeeds. If you have no more
evidence, Tigre will take his
leave.

Luckily, Gumshoe dramatically
enters the courtroom, bearing
one more piece of evidence.

--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 2:48 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Gumshoe has the prints for the
Small Bottle. Tigre's
fingerprints are found all over
the bottle. Sadly, Phoenix says
all that matters now is proof
that Tigre put poison into
Glen's coffee. SMALL BOTTLE will
be added to the Court Record,
despite its uselessness. Gumshoe
runs off, feeling as useless as
ever.

--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 3:04 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
The Judge will ask you to
present this final, decisive
piece of evidence. Present, as
hopeless as it is, the Small
Bottle. Phoenix thinks that one
person should still not be sure
just what the contents of the
bottle still are. You will need
to tell just what the contents
of this bottle are. Say
"potassium cyanide".

Tigre used this very bottle to
hold the poison. However, he
continues to say that he didn't
store any poison in that bottle.
He says that the cyanide bottle
was brown and made of glass.

...wouldn't only the real killer
know something like that? Tigre
goes crazy after this fact,
pretty much screwing himself
over, and then the lights in the
courtroom go out. A winner is
you. Maggey is Not Guilty, and
this trial is finally over.

--------------------------------
Date-January 8, 4:10 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Well, another case is brought to
a close. Gumshoe slowly comes
back, says something
unimportant, and then quickly
leaves. You'll need to present
some evidence to Maggey that
shows Gumshoe cares about her.
Present Gumshoe's Lunchbox.
She'll be happy about it, and
that will finally end this
episode.

================================
    ~8.Episode 4-Turnabout Begin
================================
The intro to this case shows two
people on a bridge, and a third
revealed when the camera zooms a
bit more into focus. The man on
the bridge is holding one of the
girls hostage, threatening to
kill her. One of them gets shot
and falls down into the raging
river below.

You can now see Phoenix, who
appears to be resting in a
hospital room. He is checking up
on an old court case, the first
one that Mia took on. You will
see the files that Phoenix is
checking on his computer. The
name of the person Mia was
defending is Terry Fawles.
Sergeant Valerie Hawthorne was
the one killed in the incident.

Mia's first trial was defending
someone who just broke out of
prison. You will be replaying
that very first case. This will
all make sense when you play the
fifth and final case of the
game, don't worry.

================================
      ~8A.Part 1-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 16, 9:24 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
You will start with a very
nervous Mia, and Terry will
appear infront of her,
complicating matters even more.
He was sentenced to death five
years ago, and just recently
escaped prison. He keeps saying
that he didn't kill anybody, and
tries to say that he didn't even
escape form prison. Yeah, sure.

Terry then says he was tricked
five years ago. Some woman lied
in her testimony, which made
Terry get the death penalty.
Terry confirms that he did meet
up with the victim, but keeps
saying he didn't kill her. After
a little more pestering, some
man appears on screen. He looks,
acts, and talks just like Godot
for some reason. This guy is
Diego Armando, one of the finest
attorneies at Grossberg Law
Offices.

He brings some news that the
prosecutor you are going against
is also completely new. However,
he's been hailed a genius, and
probably won't be going down
easy. Time for Mia's first
trial.

--------------------------------
Date-February 16, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
Hey. It's a completely different
Judge for this case. That's the
Judge's Brother, actually. And
he's Canadian! And the
prosecution is none other than a
young Miles Edgeworth. Shweet.
Facing off against Edgeworth.
How awesome can this get?

Remember, you are here to get
Terry innocent for killing
Valerie, not for escaping
prison. Edgeworth starts off by
saying that Terry was sentenced
to death five years ago. He had
a bunch of crimes against his
name at the time, so it was only
fitting. However, the trial had
no decisive evidence, so it
lasted longer then it should
have. It all came down to the
testimony of Valerie, which led
to Terry being convicted.

Valerie said she saw Terry throw
a young girl off a bridge. The
person who encountered him is
the same Valerie that was just
killed. Terry clearly escaped
with revenge on his mind. The
first witness will be called-a
Detecive Gumshoe, sporting a
different colored trenchcoat
than he does six years from now.

After looking at Mia for a
second, Gumshoe will outline the
details of the case. Valerie was
stabbed in the back from a
knife, dying of excessive blood
loss soon after. Gumshoe then
presents an overhead map of the
area in question. Dusky Bridge
can be seen, and it's an old
suspension bridge that looks
worn and broken. The Eagle River
runs below it. Terry and Valerie
met in the middle of the bridge.
After stabbing her with a knife,
Terry took her back to his car.

After that, he was captured by
the police. DUSKY BRIDGE MAP
will be added to the Court
Record. No traces of Valerie's
blood could be found on the
bridge. Gumshoe will testify
about the main details of the
incident.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Testimony-
Summary of the Incident~
--------------------------------
-On the day of the incident, an 
asked to meet.

-Sergeant Hawthorne went to Dusk
with Mr. Fawles.

-And that's where she was brutal

-The criminal stuffed her body i
getaway.

-Mr. Fawles was arrested at a po
the mountain.

Press the first statement.
Gumshoe says that the unknown
person in question is Terry
Fawles. Valerie left a secret
note on her desk about the call.
VICTIM'S NOTE will be added to
the Court Record. If you check
the note in detail, it does say
that Terry called to ask her to
meet at a certain bridge,
wearing a white scarf. It also
mentions to tell Dahlia the
truth this time. Hmm.

The only other statement left to
press is the fourth. Gumshoe
admits that Terry stole the car
from a couple at a red light. A
photo of the car's trunk will be
presented. It clearly shows
Valerie inside, and the CRIME
PHOTO will be added to the Court
Record. It isn't possible to
tell by the photo, but the knife
was stuck firm in her back. The
following statement is added to
the testimony:

-Here's a photo of the trunk. Bu
Anyway...

Press the new statement. You
will find out Terry was already
questioned about the picture. In
any case, present the Victim's
Note at the new statement.
Remember from the note, there
was a line where Terry told
Valerie to wear a white scarf
for indentification purposes.
So, where is the white scarf
now?

It wasn't found in the trunk.
Apparently, Edgeworth is holding
on to it. He managed to find it
on Dusky Bridge while he was
conducting his own
investigation. The scarf isn't
as white as described, mainly
because of the huge mud stains
that are visible. SCARF will be
added to the Court Record. Good
job falling into his trap on
that one.

Next, Gumshoe will explain just
what happened at Dusky Bridge
that evening.

--------------------------------
~Detective Gumshoe's Testimony-
Events on Dusky Bridge~
--------------------------------
-Actually, there's an eyewitness
place.

-This photo was accidentally tak
the scarf, sir.

-It was drizzling that day; unfo
going on.

-Anyway, the criminal shoved the
the back!

-...That must have been when the

During the testimony, Gumshoe
presents a photo taken by a
third party, who was clearly at
the crime scene intentionally.
Valerie can be seen wearing the
white scarf in the photo, and
the Terry is clearly on the
bridge with Valerie as well.
WITNESS'S PHOTO will be added to
the Court Record. The Judge is
about ready to give the verdict,
but you get a chance to cross
examine.

Start by pressing the fourth
statement. Diego will comment
that the Court Record seems to
contradict what Gumshoe says.
And it does--present the Crime
Photo at that statement.
Considering the conditions of
the scene of the crime,
something about this photo
doesn't match up with the facts.
You will need to point to the
spot that shows what isn't
fitting with these conditions.
Point to Valerie's chest region.

The coat is what is so strange.
If Valerie had really fallen on
her stomach on the bridge, then
the front of her coat should be
covered in mud. But in this
picture, it clearly isn't.
Edgeworth objects, saying that
although it was wet, the bridge
itself might not have been
muddy. Can you prove that the
top of the bridge was muddy that
night? Present the Scarf.

It fell off onto the bridge, and
the scarf is all muddy.
Therefore, the bridge must have
also been muddy. Well, there
must be some explanation for all
of this. There's three different
possibilities to why this
contradiction exists. The false
evidence is in the "witness's
testimony.".

Is the testimony the witness
gave actually true, or was it
set up? Mia will demand that the
witness be summoned for further
cross examination. Edgeworth
isn't afraid to bring the person
out, either. When the person
appears, she'll call herself
Melissa Foster. When I say "call
herself", I mean she's blatantly
lying about it. You damn well
know from case 3-1 that that
woman is Dahlia Hawthorne.

She claims that she is the one
who took the photo. She'll
testify about it as well.

--------------------------------
~Melissa Foster's Testimony-The
Witness's Photograph~
--------------------------------
-I...I was using my camera to ta

-Then I noticed there were two p

-Suddenly, the just started figh

-That's when I hurried and took 

-And right after that, I called 

Melissa will point out the
location she was standing when
she took the picture. The
location is towards the middle-
left side of the map, just at
the edge of the cliff. As it
would appear, she did have a
clear shot of the struggle from
this viewpoint. She also
presents her camera. CAMERA will
be added to the Court Record.

You won't get anything out of
pressing these statements (you
won't get penalized either, as
the Judge keeps on saying).
Instead, you will just need to
get to the facts, and quick.
Present the Witness's Photo at
the fourth statement. The main
problem between this line of
testimony, and the picture
itself if you couldn't easily
spot, is that Terry and Valerie
are just staring at each other
in the picture. There's no
'critical moment' in it at all.

Melissa will say that she used
up all of the film in the
camera. The photo presented was
the last one she took. Melissa
also mentions that the camera
has a timer feature. Keep that
in mind. You will be brought
back to the testimony, with
these two lines added to it:

-The victim turned around and tr

-She only got about 10 yards bef

Present the Dusky Bridge Map at
the second of the new
statements. There is a serious
problem here. On the bridge,
there will be the labels for the
killer and the victim, Valerie.
If she really turned around from
where Terry was standing, then
she would be running right onto
a spot of the bridge that
doesn't even exist. Basically,
she had nowhere to run.

Edgeworth will object, though.
He says that the diagram itself
has a mistake. The diagram was
made after the incident had
occurred. Dusky Bridge is old,
and no blueprints in its past
could be found. Despite the fact
it is now broken, it could have
been stable during the time of
the murder. Looks like Edgeworth
got you good again. Melissa will
testify about the more fine
details of the running.

--------------------------------
~Melissa Foster's Testimony-
Running From the Crime~
--------------------------------
-After he stabbed her in the bac

-Then he carried her over to the

-I suppose that was the only way

-He couldn't just leave the body

-Oh, I'm sorry...I'm only suppos

There's something wrong with
this testimony as well. Press
her statements will get you
nowhere, again, so present the
Dusky Bridge Map at the third
statement. Mia says that there
would be a much easier way to
get rid of the body. The Eagle
River runs right below the
bridge. As Edgeworth said, just
about any body that fell into it
could not be recovered.
Logically, the body would have
been thrown into the river and
not hauled into the trunk of the
car.

Sadly, as Edgeworth says, this
is all pointless. Terry still
killed Valerie, and what you
pointed out doesn't really
matter. You will go back to the
testimony, with the following
line being added:

-The killer broke into the trunk
there.

Present the Dusky Bridge Map at
this new statement as well. Once
again, there is a huge problem.
This time, it actually affects
what Melissa saw. You will refer
back to the Dusky Bridge Map. If
Melissa was standing as she
claims she was, then there would
be a huge cliff blocking her
view of the car she says she
saw. From where she was
standing, she couldn't have seen
any of that. Edgeworth will
object, saying that Melissa
still could have probably seen
over the top of the cliff. It
wasn't too tall for this to be
possible.

Mia will look back at the
Witness's Photo. On the left
side of the bridge you can see a
cliff face. This shouldn't even
be in the picture if Melissa
took it from where she said she
did. Edgeworth will object,
trying to fill in the gap of how
she knew the car was even there.
The Judge will appear
sympathetic to Melissa, allowing
to forgive this mistake.

Armando, though, asks how she
knows that Terry broke into the
trunk. She says that there were
marks left on the lid of the
trunk. They were scratch marks
made from when he broke into it.
Looking back at the Crime Photo,
you can see some scratch marks
left around the keyhole of the
trunk's door. Is there still a
contradiction here? Choose that
what she says, "It doesn't
work.".

Melissa had to have found out
about the scratches on the trunk
somehow. You will need to come
up with a reason of why she had
seen the scratches. It was
because "she put the corpse in
herself.". It wasn't Terry who
had put Valerie in the trunk,
but instead it was Melissa.
Remember that Terry had the car
keys since he stole the car. He
wouldn't need to break into the
trunk.

Edgeworth will object again,
asking how she could have still
taken the photo. The corpse
could have only been put in the
trunk when the incident
occurred. Present the Camera
when Edgeworth demands for some
evidence. The camera has a timer
built into it. The tripod was
obviously brought along as well,
as if just to take this picture.
This means Melissa couldn't have
been in the field when the
incident occurred. You will need
to point to the part on the map
where Melissa was at the time.
Point to the blue "V".

The only way that this is
possible would be if the
defendant met with the victim
before being put into the trunk.
By the time the photo was taken,
Valerie was dead. That means
that the person in the photo
isn't actually Valerie, but was
Melissa instead. The main thing
here is that Terry didn't know
what Valerie looked like. You
will need to present something
that shows Terry had forgotten
what Valerie had looked like.
Present the Victim's Note.

Terry had forgotten what she
looked like, hence why he needed
her to wear the white scarf. As
long as she wore that scarf,
anybody could have easily
pretended to be Valerie. Melissa
will fall to the floor, and a
recess will be called. What
isn't clear still is why Melissa
would need to kill Valerie.
Perhaps you can figure that out
soon. Save when prompted.

================================
      ~8B.Part 1-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 16, 1:14 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 4
--------------------------------
Terry is pretty happy that
you're doing a good job thus
far, but it isn't quite over
yet. Armando appears, and says
again that you still need to fit
a motive for Melissa. The most
important information needed
right now is about Melissa
Foster. To get that, you'll need
information on the incident from
five years ago.

Terry will explain it. The
suspension bridge hasn't changed
in five years. He confirms that
he did kidnap the girl. His
girlfriend, actually, Dahlia
Hawthorne. Dahlia is Valerie's
little sister. You will be shown
the scene at the bridge again.
Dahlia is the one being held
hostage. Terry says that Valerie
betrayed him. Infact, everything
that happened there was lies.

Him, Dahlia, and Valerie all
planned that meeting. Dahlia's
family was rich, and they sought
to obtain a jewel. Terry and
Dahlia wrote a kidnapping note,
asking for a two million dollar
diamond, and for the exchange to
occur on Dusky Bridge. They
wanted Valerie to make the
transfer since she was a
detective. However, Valerie
actually shot at Dahlia and
Terry for real, and Dahlia
managed to jump into the river
below.

Terry passed out, and the police
came soon after. That's the
truth, then. Terry called
Valerie to the bridge so he
could finally hear the real
story, and the scarf was to make
sure it was really her he was
talking to. Armando asks just
where the diamond is located
now. Terry doesn't know, though.
He is sure that it is gone along
with Dahlia. She put it in her
backpack on the bridge.

And now it's sliding along the
river with, what everyone
thinks, Dahlia. Did Dahlia set
this all up for the diamond, and
is she alive? Well, you know the
answe to the last one. You just
saw her, after all. Hell, the
first case of this game took
place a year from now, so we all
know she is alive. DIAMOND will
be added to the Court Record.
Back into court.

--------------------------------
Date-February 16, 1:49 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 4
--------------------------------
Mia will remind herself that
you're still after a possible
motive she could have for
killing Valerie. Melissa will
continue to testify, this time
about her history.

--------------------------------
~Melissa Foster's Testimony-
Melissa Foster's History~
--------------------------------
-I...I was out of the country un

-Until I entered college, I had 

-And I certainly don't have any 
officer.

-Holding a grudge and killing th
ago...

-Or kidnapping a poor girl...I j
horrible monster.

Press the fourth statement. You
and Melissa will talk about
Terry for a moment, and how he
didn't forget about Valerie's
testimony despite forgetting
what she looks like. Choose to
"Press harder". Terry needed the
white scarf as identification.
When asked, "Have it added to
the tesitmony" and the following
will be done so:

-I guess I'm lucky I wasn't wear

Present the Scarf itself at this
statement. There's something
strange about her testimony.
She's glad she didn't wear a
white scarf, but the scarf that
was found on the bridge is
clearly blue. Edgeworth will
object, but Mia says that
Melissa just confirmed that this
was the scarf worn by the
victim. What was the reason the
witness thought this was white?
Present the Victim's Note.

Melissa had to have known what
the note said. It details to
bring a white scarf, and she
knew all about it. The people
who knew about this note were
limited. Terry and Valerie were
two, but the third person who
knows about it is the key.
Present Dahlia Hawthorne's
profile when asked who this
third person is.

Edgeworth will bring up that
Terry killed Dahlia already. Mia
asks if she was really killed.
Her corpse was never found,
though. If Dahlia were still
alive, she would be 19. That
just happens to be the same age
as Melissa. This means that the
witness before us is actually
the girl that was kidnapped, and
presumed dead, five years ago.

Edgeworth then admits that even
he knew the true identity of
Melissa long ago. This girl is
still Dahlia. Her act of hiding
her identity isn't important to
this case. You will be asked to
present some form of motive for
Dahlia to kill her own sister
after some objections from
Edgeworth. Present the Victim's
Note again.

Valerie gave Dahlia a fair
warning. They had a dangerously
important secret to keep. That's
the reason Dahlia had to kill
Valerie. Dahlia will be asked to
testify on the events from five
years ago. Hopefully it will
clear up the confusion this
current case is making.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-5
Years Ago~
--------------------------------
-Five years ago, I was kidnapped

-The ransom price was a raw diam
bridge...

-After she made the exchange, sh

-That's when Mr. Fawles tried to
behind!

-I survived, but I was afraid I 
money...

-So I decided to change my ident

All you need to do is prove the
kidnapping was all staged. Do
this by presenting the Dusky
Bridge Map at the fourth
statement. That's actually not
possible. Looking at the map, if
Dahlia had been pushed from
behind like she stated, then she
would have fallen onto the layer
of bedrock below the destroyed
section of the bridge. That,
most certainly, would have
killed her.

Terry couldn't have pushed her.
We've established that.
Edgeworth objects, saying the
water level could have risen.
However, the height of the
bridge is so large that the
slightest change in water level
is insignificant. Edgeworth
objects again, saying that
Dahlia never said she was pushed
from the back end of the bridge.
Terry could have pushed her off
the side of the bridge instead.

If that were the case, she would
have fallen into the river. Mia
objects, saying Dahlia couldn't
have fallen off the side of the
bridge. You'll need to back up
this statement, so present the
Witness's Photo. If you look at
the photo, there are safety
wires on the sides of the bridge
that are about as tall as the
two people standing on it.
Somebody couldn't easily be
pushed off of the bridge that
way.

Edgeworth keeps trying to think
of ways Terry could have forced
Dahlia into the river, but the
fact he had been shot in the arm
stops him. Dahlia must have
jumped into the river
intentionally. She had a strong
intent to jump into the river.
You will need to present some
evidence that shows why she had
to jump into the river. Present
the Diamond.

Dahlia planned to keep the money
for herself. That's the only
reason she would jump off the
bridge. Not to mention that
Valerie was there to make the
plan complete. Valerie then
planned on telling the truth
today, as she says in her note,
which made Dahlia panic. Thusly,
she had to kill her.

Dahlia will ask what happened to
the diamond. However, before the
trial ends, there is still one
more person who can testify.
Choose Terry Fawles' profile to
make him testify. He will give
one testimony, and you better
make use out of it.

--------------------------------
~Terry Fawles's Testimony-Who
Terry Fawles Saw~
--------------------------------
-That day...4 PM...I stopped the

-She wasn't there...So, I waited

-I watched my car from bridge. I

-Finally, one woman came. She st

-We talked...Then she left.

-That was...That was Valerie. No

He isn't leaving us much to work
with. The only thing you can do
is to present the Witness's
Photo at the fourth statement.
Looking at the photo, the person
at the end of the bridge would
be the first one to have
arrived. This means that Terry
actually arrived second. He
admits that he got to the bridge
at around 4 PM. He had to go to
an old temple not far from the
bridge.

He and Dahlia had a momento,
which Terry buried under a tree
infront of the temple. He went
to get a small necklace with a
bottle on it. Sound familiar?
This means that Terry was gone
from his car for about 30
minutes, and in that time,
Dahlia could have easily stuffed
the body of Valerie into the
trunk of the car.

Terry then starts to bleed from
the lip. He wasn't able to trust
Dahlia, so he drank the poison,
apparently, that he was given.

That is that. The trial ended,
and Dahlia got away. Phoenix
makes the final commentary on
this case, saying that Dahlia
was made guilty in his case.
It's been five years, but
something involving her has
happened. Now you see? It's all
a prelude to the final case. And
an epic one, at that.

================================
    ~9.Episode 5-Bridge to the T
================================
You will first see the Ami Fey
statue from the second case, and
it's holding the Shichshito.
You'll learn that the name means
7 Branched Sword, as well. The
narration talks about the sword
a little more, the screen will
pan slightly below the statue.
The sword is actually stuck deep
inside someone's body.

Just what is going on? You'll
find about about the statue, and
why the sword becomes so
important, as you play the case.
It'll all make sense eventually.

================================
  ~9A.Part 1-1 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 6, 9:48 AM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya and Pearl will talk to
Phoenix in the office. They say
that they need to train their
spiritual powers at some place
called Hazakura Temple. Both of
them want you to join them,
mainly because they need to be
supervised by someone older then
them.

Pearl keeps insisting that you
come, and presents the magazine.
Phoenix notices something about
it. Up close, the picture shows
two nuns standing next to
eachother. The one on the right
looks exactly like Dahlia
Hawthorne. However, this
shouldn't be possible. She was
thrown into prison five years
ago.

That's all it takes for Phoenix
to agree to come with the girls.
OH CULT! NEW YEAR'S ISSUE will
be added to the Court Record.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7, 3:24 PM
Location-Hazakura Temple; Main
Gate
--------------------------------
You will arrive at the snowy
mountain temple. One of the nuns
will meet you up here. The nun
says she is Bikini. She keeps
laughing at Maya's shivering.
I'd laugh too. Talk about the
"Channeling dojo". Bikini will
talk about the channeling dojo
up ahead, and how it feels quite
mysterious. She also says that
Maya is going to be experiencing
a lot of cold things. How lucky.

Ask about "The other nun". She
calls the other nun Iris. She is
in the inner temple at the
moment, so you can't visit her
right now. Move into the Main
Hall now.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Hall
--------------------------------
After smelling the cooking food,
an old lady holding a large cane
will appear. Pearl seems to know
this woman as Elise Deauxnim (I
think it's pronouned "do-nim").
Pearl is a huge fan of Elise,
mainly because she writes a lot
of books. She does picture
books. Talk about "Elise
Deauxnim". Pearl talks about how
awesome her books are, and Elise
says she has hired an apprentice
by the name of Laurice.
Hopefully we can talk to Laurice
later, as well.

Now talk about "Why come here?".
Elise is only here to gather new
material for a book she's
working on. The nuns have
provided her with clothes as
well. She also talks about her
staff, which has an actual
amethyst on the top of it.

Elise then says that she needs
to leave to help with dinner.
Pearl also agrees to help her.
She hands you a map of the area
before you leave. You can see
the Inner Temple just across a
familiar looking suspension
bridge. HAZAKURA TEMPLE MAP
added to the Court Record.
There's nothing to examine in
here, so move back to the Main
Gate.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Bikini left already, probably to
the Inner Temple. Let's follow
her. Move to the Suspension
Bridge.

--------------------------
Date-February 7
Location-Suspension Bridge
--------------------------
There's a fast flowing river
below the bridge. Maya notes the
nearby rock which reads "Dusky
Bridge". Yup. The same one that
Dahlia supposedly died from in
the previous case. Move to the
Inner Temple Gate.

--------------------------
Date-February 7
Location-Inner Temple Gate
--------------------------
You'll have fun constantly going
back and forth between these
areas. On the right screen you
will find the temple itself.
Move into the Training Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7 Location-Inner
Temple; Training Hall
--------------------------------
After Maya says that she's the
only one training here, and not
Pearl along with her, another
girl will appear. She will
introduce herself as Iris (note
how Dahlia's music plays
throughout this), and leaves to
go attend some chores as if she
doesn't want to hang out with
you.

Could that girl really have been
Dahlia? Nah, that's not
possible. You will need to
examine the scroll on the right
wall before you leave. There is
a picture of a woman on the
scroll, and that just happens to
be Maya's mother, Misty. Note
the mark at the top of the
scroll, which signifies the
master. HANGING SCROLL will be
added to the Court Record. Now,
head back over to the Suspension
Bridge.

---------------------
Date-February 7
Location-Dusky Bridge
---------------------
You will find somebody here at
Dusky Bridge, but they leave
before you can ask them
anything. He calls himself
Laurice, but Phoenix (and you)
know that that person is really
Larry. Sweet, twice in one game.
Makes up for his absence in
Justice For All. Seems that he
is the illustrator apprentice
for Elise.

Talk to him about "Laurice
Deausnim". After case 2, Larry
wanted to start his life over.
He found one of Elise's books,
and has felt great ever since
then. Ask about "Elise
Deauxnim". Larry is so crazy
about Elise that he went as far
as to take a picture of her
secretly. PHOTO OF ELISE will be
added to the Court Record.

Now talk about "Picture books".
Maya suspects that Larry is only
doing this because he's in love
with Elise, but Larry states
clearly that he's actually
attracted to the 'other girl'.
Present that profile, of Iris,
that is.

Larry will praise Iris for a few
seconds, and Pearl will soon
interrupt. She says that dinner
is ready, and everyone gets
taken to the Main Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7, 7:46 PM
Location-Hazakura Temple; Main
Hall
--------------------------------
Everyone will eat dinner. The
major people will be given
certain tasks. Maya is going to
be starting her training early
in the morning. Iris will be
joining Maya and Bikini soon
later, after taking care of some
other business in another area
of the temple.

Pearl will head off with Elise
to read some of her books.
Moreso to learn to read,
actually. Larry will stay in his
room--he hates the cold. There
won't be much else for Phoenix
to do.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7, 9:12 PM
Location-Hazakura Temple; Main
Hall
--------------------------------
Phoenix is wondering the temple
and runs into Elise. It seems
that she can't find Pearl
anywhere. She never showed up to
visit Elise. Iris pops up soon
after Elise leaves. You finally
have the chance to talk to Iris,
if only for a short time. Talk
about "Iris". She says that she
has been at the temple ever
since she can remember. She
doesn't have any other family to
turn to. She generally just
stays in the temple, heading to
the nearby town every now and
again. Since no Psyche-Locks are
appearing, she must not be
Dahlia after all.

Ask about "Hazakura Temple".
Iris says that she hates
communicating with the dead up
here. It's almost 10 PM and Iris
has some important things to do
at that late hour. She will hand
you her hood, which apprently
protects you from spiritual
powers. IRIS'S HOOD will be
added to the Court Record.

Right before leaving, Iris will
call Phoenix by his last name.
When asked how she knows this,
five Psyche-Locks will appear
over her. Looks like she really
does know Phoenix. Before he can
get any sleep, a flash of
lightning strikes and a loud
scream can be heard from the
courtyard.

--------------------------------
Date-February 7, 11:06 PM
Location-Hazakura Temple;
Courtyard
--------------------------------
Someone is lying on the ground
infront of you. It's none other
than Elise, and it looks like
she was pierced by the sword the
Ami Fey statue is holding. Seems
much like the intro, doesn't it?
Told you it would make sense
eventually.

Bikini is also here, and she too
is deathly afraid of what just
happened. She orders you to go
contact the police. She tells
you to head over to Dusky Bridge
and use the pay phone there,
warning you that Iris will do...
something...if you don't hurry.

-------------------------
Date-February 7, 11:18 PM
Location-Dusky Bridge
-------------------------
Crap! Dusky Bridge is quickly
burning down, and Maya is still
on the other side. Larry will
appear, and Phoenix shoves him
aside and tells him to call the
police while Phoenix looks for
Maya. Larry keeps warning him
that the bridge isn't safe, but
Phoenix doesn't care. He needs
to find Maya.

Sadly, Phoenix doesn't even get
close to the other end of the
bridge. Weakened by the fire,
the bridge completely snaps
loose, making Phoenix plummet
into the rushing river below.
That will end the investigation.
Hopefully Phoenix isn't dead or
anything. What the hell are we
going to do now!? Save when
asked.

================================
  ~9B.Part 1-2 Investigation~
================================
-----------------
Date-??? Time-???
Location-???
-----------------
Someone's phone will be ringing.
Yeah, Miles freaking Edgeworth
is on the line. Larry will be at
the other end, demanding
Edgeworth to return back to the
States and help Phoenix. Larry
is at the detention center. Huh.
Looks like Edgeworth will be
taking charge of the first part
of this case. That should please
all of the fanboys.

--------------------------------
Date-February 8, 2:19 PM
Location-Detention Center;
Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Oh, Larry isn't actually the one
in detention. Okay. Edgeworth
stopped by the hospital where
Phoenix is currently staying and
learned all about the case from
there. He also took all of the
evidence that Phoenix was
holding. The prime suspect of
the case is the nun, Iris.
Edgeworth says that Phoenix will
need at least two days of rest
before he can return to work.

Edgeworth says that two items he
picked up from Phoenix make no
sense. First is the Magatama,
which confuses the hell out of
Edgeworth. The other was
Phoenix's Attorney's Badge. Oh
snap, we're playing as a defense
attorney. As Edgeworth. That's
cool. Looks like Edgeworth has
no choice but to take part in
this case.

Iris will appear in the
Detention Center. Edgeworth
reassures her that Phoenix is
going to be fine. That's good.
Edgeworth then thinks that he
has met Iris someplace before.
Talk to her about "Iris". Iris
says that she is at Hazakura
Temple, the place for spiritual
training, despite that she has
no spiritual powers herself. She
says that she is staying there
only to purify her soul for bad
things she has done in the past.

Ask about "The night of the
crime" next. She was in her room
after 8 PM, leaving at around 10
to ring the bell. She was told
to go to the Training Hall after
that, but instead went back to
her room. She says she was
frightened to go to the Training
Hall. She stayed there until the
murder occurred.

Now ask about "Frightened?".
Edgeworth won't get far into the
conversation before two Psyche-
Locks appear (or as he calls
them, Psycholocks). Well, so
much for that. Talk about "Any
idea?" next. Iris flatly says
that she did not kill Elise. No
Psyche-Locks appear, so she
didn't do it. Edgeworth will ask
if Iris and Phoenix knew each
other. Iris says that five years
ago she deceived him. She knew
she was a weak person, so she
hoped to never see him again.
Iris agrees that if Edgeworth
defends her, she'll tell Phoenix
the truth about their past.

I like Edgeworth's style of
thinking. He's smart and tells
you (or rather, himself) exactly
where to go. Head to the crime
scene--Dusky Bridge.

---------------------
Date-February 8
Location-Dusky Bridge
---------------------
Well, it isn't so much of a
bridge anymore. Gumshoe will be
here, happy to see Edgeworth.
Although the same can't be said
in reverse, Gumshoe says he
wanted to get here before Godot
had the chance to. Edgeworth has
no idea who Godot is, though.
Talk to Gumshoe about "What
happened". Gumshoe says that the
case is pretty simple. The main
witness is Bikini who claims to
have seen the entire thing.

Ask about "Dusky Bridge" next.
Gumshoe says the Inner Temple is
on the other side, but it's
impossible to get over there.
Worse yet, Maya is trapped on
the other side. Looks like she's
in trouble yet again. The bridge
burned down from a lightning
strike.

Ask about "Prosecutor Godot"
next. Edgeworth still has no
idea who this guy is, or why
everyone calls him awesome
despite having never won a case.
The only reason that Godot is
even on this case is because
Phoenix is the one taking charge
of it. Nobody knows why Godot
has such a strong grudge against
Phoenix.

Now talk about the "Lightning"
strike. It's odd that lightning
would strike when it is snowing,
but the weather data Gumshoe
holds confirms that there was a
strike of lightning. WEATHER
DATA will be added to the Court
Record. The weather report is
quite detailed, saying that
lightning struck at exactly
10:45 and the burning of the
bridge lasted for half an hour.

Actually, most of that report
was from a witness. Gumshoe
isn't in any position to reveal
who this witness is, so you will
have to find out for yourself.
Head to the Main Gate.

--------------------------------
Date-February 8 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Larry will be here, demanding to
know what Edgeworth has been up
to. After some confusion, you
will get the chance to talk
about "Iris". Seems that all of
this talk makes it seem that
Larry doesn't want to think that
Iris might have killed Elise.

Ask about "The night of the
crime". Larry goes crazy when
asked what he was doing last
night, and then three Psyche-
Locks will appear over him. Now
you can move into the Main Hall.
Do so--we'll return back later.

--------------------------------
Date-February 8 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Hall
--------------------------------
Bikini will be moping about in
this room. Gumshoe seems to be
talking to her. She seems very
serious about the condition of
Iris. Talk to her about "The
night of the crime". She says
that her and Maya went to the
Inner Temple at around 9 PM. She
says that the process was going
to take all night, and that the
Head Nun needed to keep watch at
all times. However, if she was
supposed to be in the Inner
Temple, how is she here and why
did she leave?

Ask about "What you saw". Bikini
saw, at around 11:00, two people
in the courtyard. One of them
was lying on the ground, and the
other was stabbing her with a
sword. She is positive that it
was Iris doing the stabbing.
Bikini soon passed out after
witnessing this. However, she
thinks that Iris doing ths sort
of act is unnatural. She's sure
that Iris wouldn't do something
like that.

Ask "Why return?" next. She says
that although looking strong,
she actually has a bad lower
back. It also gets worse in the
winter. She wanted a warm place
to rest her back, so she had to
return to the Main Hall. After
leaving, she had Iris go to the
Inner Temple once she was done
ringing the bell. However, Iris
never did go to the Inner
Temple, did she? Hmm.

Talk about "The acolyte" next.
Bikini says that she is ashamed
she treated Maya very poorly.
They hadn't started the training
course last night. Bikini asks
if you have seen the young girl,
Pearl. Bikini thought that she
was going to visit Elise after
dinner as well, but she too has
no idea where she went. Perhaps
she is with Maya...?

That takes care of the main
topics. Time to examine the
area. Start by examining the
cushion at the far, left end of
the room. Under one of them is a
piece of paper. Gumshoe checks
it out, and it seems to be of
great importance. It's a letter
addressed to Iris, telling her
to go somewhere, or else her
secret will be exposed. Sounds
like a blackmail letter. NOTE TO
IRIS will be added to the Court
Record.

That's all there is here. Head
to the Courtyard.

--------------------------------
Date-February 8 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Courtyard
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will have followed you
to the crime scene itself.
Besides removing the body,
nothing else has been touched.
Talk to Gumshoe about "The
victim". Up until the point
where Elise won the writer's
award, her entire past has been
a mystery. Gumshoe says that the
time of death was between 10 and
11 PM on February 7th. Elise
died, as you know, from the
giant sword being plunged into
her back.

The only odd thing is that
Elise's body was covered in
bruises, similar to falling off
a two-story building. That's the
same height as the nearby
building, the one Elise was
staying in. AUTOPSY REPORT will
be added to the Court Record. As
Edgeworth guesses, Elise's body
was dropped from that height
after her death. Ask about "What
happened" next.

Gumshoe and Edgeworth will
summarize the main events so
far. You'll need some
information on the Inner Temple
for this to make a bit more
sense. There must be some reason
why everyone kept moving about.
Talk about "Tomorrow's trial"
next.

Gumshoe was sure that Godot was
going to be the prosecutor, but
nobody is able to contact him at
the moment. A replacement is
being searched for as they
speak. Perhaps it's true that
since Phoenix isn't taking the
case at the moment, Godot lost
interest.

Edgeworth poses the problem that
he could be revealed as a
prosecutor, and not a defense
attorney. The real person who
can figure that out would be the
Judge. Luckily, Edgeworth
requested that another Judge
preside over the case. Even
better, Edgeworth managed to
select a prosecutor himself, one
that will bail him out if
someone catches on that he's
actually a prosecutor.

Talk about the "Inner Temple"
last. You'll learn there's
nothing else near the Inner
Temple, and there is no other
method if entrance. Time to
start examining the scene.
Examine the staff on the left
side of the screen. You will
recall that this staff belonged
to Elise. Only her fingerprints
were found on it. Also note that
the gem on the top is missing.
VICTIM'S STAFF will be added to
the Court Record.

Now examine the Ami Fey statue
in the back. It's holding the
Shichishito sword, which is
covered in Elise's blood. The
fingerprints on the hilt of the
sword match those of Iris's.
SHICISHITO will be added to the
Court Record. Move to the Main
Gate once you have collected the
evidence here.

--------------------------------
Date-February 8 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Larry seems to have left, and we
still need to break his Psyche-
Locks. For now, head back to the
Detention Center. Iris still has
her Psyche-Locks, too (You get
there by moving at the
Suspension Bridge).

--------------------------------
Date-February 8 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
After what you've learned, talk
to Iris about the "Inner
Temple". Iris says that she
didn't go to the Inner Temple at
all that night. Yet, Bikini said
she did. Who's lying? Present
the Magatama while we wait, and
let's break these Psyche-Locks.

--------------------------------
~Iris's Magatama Secret-I Was
Frightened~
--------------------------------
Iris was scared of something to
the point that she didn't leave
her room, and you'll need to
present something that shows
that. Present the Note to Iris.
She was scared of the
blackmailer, and thusly didn't
come out of her room. The first
lock will break off.

Iris says she thought that
somebody was just playing a
prank on her. Not only that, but
since she has contact with such
few people, it's unlikely that
any major secret would give her
problems. Yet, there is one
person that she didn't want her
secret told to. Present
Phoenix's profile. You should
remember that Phoenix uncovered
five Psyche-Locks in Iris last
night, obviously holding some
secret that she doesn't want let
out. The final lock breaks off.
--------------------------------
Now you can talk about
"Frightened?". After dinner, the
letter was in her room. The
Heavenly Hall mentioned in the
letter is a small shack at the
base of Dusky Bridge. Iris opens
up the map and points out the
location of the shack. Iris
didn't want to think of the
affair at all because she was
worried there was some criminal
there, and she never left her
room because of it. IRIS'S
TESTIMONY will be added to the
Court Record.

You can move to Heavenly Hall
now, so get to it.

----------------------
Date-February 8
Location-Heavenly Hall
----------------------
This scene looks like something
from case 1-4. To add to it,
Larry is wandering around here.
He's talking to himself, and
mentions about doing something
again, something that has gotten
himself into trouble. Talk to
Larry about "Heavenly Hall". The
little shack is a nice quiet
place where almost nobody goes,
a perfect place for Larry.

Now ask about "Iris". Nothing
much here, just that Larry wants
to marry her. Talk about "The
night of the crime" and the
Psyche-Locks will appear.
Present the Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Magatama Secret-
The Night of the Crime~
--------------------------------
Larry will begin talking about
the incredible thing that he saw
last night. It was around 10 PM,
and he was sleeping at the time.
He saw a flash of lightning, and
before he knew it, the bridge
was on fire. Larry says that he
was in his room in the Main Hall
when he saw the bridge catch on
fire. However, Edgeworth doubts
that. You will need to present
something that contradicts
Larry. Present the Hazakura
Temple Map.

The Main Hall is surrounded by
trees and a giant cliff. It's
impossible to see Dusky Bridge
from there. The first lock will
easily break off. Well, if Larry
wasn't in his room, and he saw
the lightning strike, then he
must have been at another
location somewhere closer to the
bridge. Point to Heavenly Hall
and present it. Larry can't get
himself out of this one. The
second lock will break.

Edgeworth suspects that Larry
was waiting for somebody last
night. If you have paid
attention to the evidence, it
should be obvious. Present
Iris's profile. Larry thinks
that you don't have any actual
proof that he was waiting for
Iris. When asked, present the
Note to Iris. She was called to
the shack with a horribly placed
blackmail letter, if it was even
blackmail to begin with. The
final lock will break off.
--------------------------------
Talk about "The night of the
crime" finally. Larry comes
clean and says the "secret"
that's mentioned in the letter
is actually his love for Iris.
Um, great, and all, but did we
waste our time to figure that
out? Yeah, yeah we did.

That's all there is. Gumshoe
steps in and says that Larry is
hiding another secret from
earlier. Talk about "Something
incredible". Larry gets more
defensive than before, and this
time, five Psyche-Locks appear
over him. Damnit, Larry! There's
nothing else Edgeworth can do
for now. And that ends the
investigation. Save the game.

================================
      ~9C.Part 2-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 9, 9:47 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Iris and Edgeworth will be
talking. Bikini is going to be
the first one to testify, and
Larry will follow suit. Soon
enough, trial will start. I
wonder how this is going to
work...

--------------------------------
Date-February 9, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 7
--------------------------------
Cool. The Judge's brother is the
one in the chair today instead
of the clueless yet funny Udgey.
Not to mention, there's no
prosecution. Looks like the
verdict is going to be given
pretty quickly in this one...

Oh, but it can't possibly be
that easy! Franziska von Karma
bursts into the room. Makes
sense why Edgeworth would want
to face off against her. The
Judge comes close to finding out
that Edgeworth was a prosecutor,
but he convinces the Judge
otherwise. Franziska backs him
up, as well.

The Judge also has no tolerance
for the whip. Finally, some
backbone! Yet, Edgeworth is fine
with her having it all the same.
Franziska will outline the
details of the case, presenting
a new picture of the crime
scene. CRIME PHOTO will be added
to the Court Record.

Bikini will be called up to the
stand first, as expected.

--------------------------------
~Bikini's Testimony-The Night of
the Murder~
--------------------------------
-That night I was helping an aco
But...

-Well, as you can see, my back l

-So, I left Iris to help the aco

-There's no bath at the Inner Te
soak.

-It was after I had finished, ju
saw it!

Press the third statement.
Bikini says several times that
Iris and her met in the Inner
Temple. There's something wrong
with that, though. Present
Iris's Testimony at the third
statement. Franziska objects,
saying that Iris shouldn't be
trusted. Edgeworth cuts in,
saying that if she were in the
Inner Temple, she would have had
a much better alibi. There's no
point in saying she was in her
room just because she could.
Nothing else can be done, so the
following line is added to her
testimony:

-Iris came to the Inner Temple. 
dinner.

This statement just screams a
contradiction. Present Iris's
Hood. Remember, two nights ago,
she gave her hood to Phoenix
right after dinner. If Bikini
had seen someone wearing this
hood, then it couldn't have been
Iris.

Bikini then says that she makes
a large surplus of these hoods.
Despite each nun only getting
one, Iris might have gone for
another. Edgeworth doubts this,
but more testimony is to come.

--------------------------------
~Bikini's Testimony-After My
Bath~
--------------------------------
-I finished my bath around 11, a
Temple.

-And as I was walking back...I h
look and...

-Iris was...! Oh, Mystic Elise! 

-Mystic Elise was staying in the
courtyard.

-The stabbing must have occurred

This is yet another easy
testimony. At the final
statement, present Elise's
Autopsy Report. It clearly
states that Elise was pushed out
a window after she was killed,
not the other way around as
Bikini claims.

It's highly unlikely that Elise
was brought into her room and
then shoved out of the window,
but instead was killed inside of
her room and then shoved out
from there. However, Edgeworth
states that there were no signs
of a struggle in her room. No
traces of blood were there,
either.

Franziska states, though, that
the most amount of blood is lost
when the blade is taken out of
the body. Thusly, she comes up
with the conclusion that Elise
was stabbed in her room, and the
sword was kept inside so as to
prevent blood from leaking onto
the floor. Elise was then shoved
out of the window, and then the
sword was taken out of her body
so the blood quickly covered the
ground.

Looks like Bikini is going to
need to describe the seen just a
little bit better.

--------------------------------
~Bikini's Testimony-Further
Details~
--------------------------------
-When I looked across at the sce

-Thinking about it now, I didn't

-I've never seen so much blood b

-That's when I fainted. You can'

-And when I awoke...Mystic Ami w
back!

Start by pressing the third
statement. Bikini saw blood get
flicked onto Iris's clothes, and
when her room was searched
later, the blood-stained clothes
were found in a corner of the
room. Choose to "Press further".
Bikini now says that she saw the
girl pull the sword out of
Elise. The following will be
added to her testimony:

-I saw the instantly in which th
smoothly drawn out.

Press this new statement. Bikini
is quite sure that she saw the
sword come out of her body
smoothly and without difficulty.
There is something wrong here--
present the Shichishito. First
of all, there is no way the
sword could have plunged to the
hilt. The sword is far too long
and heavy for someone like Iris
to use that far.

Not only that, but there are
many branches on the sword.
There isn't any way that this
sword went out quite smoothly.
Now there's the matter of the
bleeding. The way this sword is
shaped, there isn't much room
for possibility that the
bleeding could be plugged up.
There is still one more
contradiction. If the sword was
thrust into Elise up to the
hilt, then why is only the tip
of it covered in blood? If
Bikini was serious, then there
should be blood all over the
sword.

Thusly, the murder weapon
couldn't possibly be the
Shichishito. It's only because
it was in the victim's body that
it could be believed that it
really was. Franziska says this
means nothing, but it really
does. Where did the real murder
weapon go?

Bikini cuts in, saying she might
know something about the actual
murder weapon. Looks like
there's going to be one last
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Bikini's Testimony-Location of
the Weapon~
--------------------------------
-I saw the murder at around 11 P

-And after asking that it be rep

-And there...I saw tracks! Track
used!

-It takes 15 minutes to walk to 
those!

-Maybe they threw the weapon int
knocked out?

-...Iris could have done that. S

The testimony talks about a
snowmobile, and Franziska
presents a picture showing their
tracks from the main gate.
TRACKS PHOTO will be added to
the Court Record. Now, present
the Tracks Photo at the fifth
statement. Edgeworth questions
why there is only one set of
snow tracks. If Iris left the
Temple, threw the weapon into
the river, and returned, there
would be two sets of tracks.

Franziska claims that it was
snowing that night, and the
tracks could have been easily
erased. Is there a flaw in this
theory? Choose "There is a
contradiction.". You will need
to present some evidence that
shows snow couldn't have fallen
over the first pair of tracks.
Present the Weather Data. She
witnessed the crime at around 11
PM. Snow stopped falling at
about 10:50 that evening.

When Iris committed the crime,
there was no snow falling.
Thusly, both tracks should have
been there. Franziska says that
the report could easily be
inaccurate. She's real desperate
for something now. To shove it
back in Franziska's face, you'll
need to present some evidence
that shows the snow had
certainly stopped falling by
that time. Present the Crime
Photo.

Looking at this photo, Elise's
body is clearly visible. There
isn't any snow on top of her,
thusly it couldn't have been
snowing during the murder. If
Iris had really gone to Eagle
River to throw away the murder
weapon, then there must have
been two sets of tracks.
Edgeworth explains that somebody
took the snowmobile to Dusky
Bridge that evening before the
murder, when it was still
snowing. When that person
returned to the Temple, the snow
had stopped, and thus the tracks
remained.

Bikini then says that there is
only one set of keys for the
snowmobile. Only Iris had the
keys that night, and they were
found in her room after the
murder. Iris had to use the
snowmobile to get to the river,
or so says Bikini. The problem
is, Bikini didn't see the
snowmobile when she left Iris at
the Inner Temple. She instead
found it at the Main Gate later.
It was covered in snow then.

It couldn't have been used to
dispose of the weapon, but
someone did use it after snow
had stopped falling. There's
nothing left to ths story unless
there's another witness. But
that person would need to be an
idiot to go out on that night.
An idiot, huh? Sounds just like
Larry's perfect for that job.
Present Larry's profile when
asked. Looks like we may find
the "something incredible"
secret here when he testifies.
Save the game when prompted.

================================
      ~9D.Part 2-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 9, 11:15 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Edgeworth asks Iris is she did
or didn't go to the Inner Temple
that night. Nothing happens, so
Edgey moves to the second
question--whether or not she
used the snowmobile that night.
Looks like she isn't going to
tell you, not with five Psyche-
Locks covering her. She says she
won't tell you until the safety
of Maya is confirmed. Getting it
out of her won't be easy, oh no.
Back to court!

--------------------------------
Date-February 9, 11:36 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 7
--------------------------------
Looks like Franziska hates
Larry's drawings of her. Ha.
Larry's forced to testify,
unless he wants more of her
demonic whip.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Testimony-What I
Saw~
--------------------------------
-I was at that lodge out in the 
night.

-I walked to the bridge a number

-I didn't see a s-snowmobile!

-I didn't meet anyone at the bri

Pressing Larry will do nothing,
but I'm sure you could have
guessed that. Present Phoenix's
profile at the final statement.
You were there, after all,
meeting Larry on the night of
the murder.

After a bit of self-confidence
speech from Edgeworth, Larry
will get to testify again.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Testimony-What I
Saw, Pt. 2~
--------------------------------
-I went to the shack at around 9

-I was lying under my bedding wh

-I looked out the window...and D

-There was still some thunder, b

-That's when I ran into Nick.

Press the fourth statement.
Larry will say that it took him
about five minutes to reach the
site of the burning bridge. When
thinking about pressing harder,
choose to ask "Why didn't you
call anyone?". There was a phone
right next to the bridge, and
normal people would call
somebody at the sight of a fire.
The next line will be added to
the testimony:

-I arrived at the bridge, and Ni

At this new statement, present
the Weather Data. If you paid
attention to the times Larry
gave you, there is no way that
Phoenix showed up seconds after
Larry reached the bridge. Larry
got to the bridge at around 11
PM. However, 11 PM is when the
murder itself occurred. Phoenix
was still in the courtyard at
this time. There's no way Larry
encountered him at 11, then.

Edgeworth says that even if the
murder didn't happen at exactly
11, Phoenix still couldn't have
been there. It took 30 minutes
for the bridge to burn out. It
was burning until at least 11:15
PM. Phoenix didn't actually see
the bridge on fire, so Phoenix
took a while in getting there.
Larry must still be hiding
something.

Larry says it's time to get
serious. Larry won't be screwing
around.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Testimony-The
Missing 15 Minutes~
--------------------------------
-I'm a Deauxnim. I'm an artist! 

-Sketching! In front of the brid

-The shock and awe that I was fe
the page!

-...Before I realized it, the fl
up.

Larry must have some good reason
for hiding this information.
Press the second statement. He
was busy sketching the bridge
and everything around it. Should
you look at the sketch? It could
be important, after all. Choose
to "Look at the sketch". Larry
will present his sketch which
looks...awful. Really, really
awful. What in the hell is that
thing flying above the bridge
itself?

Larry says that the thing is
Iris, naturally. So, why is she
on fire? Not only that, but
Larry claims she was flying at
that point. He's really
confident in what he saw. Larry
points out she was about 30 feet
off the ground. Back to the
testimony, with the next line
added (LARRY'S SKETCH is also
added to the Court Record):

-I saw Iris flying! Her white ho

Well, it's obvious now. Present
Iris's Hood at this new
statement. If we are to believe
Larry, then the person over the
bridge couldn't have been Iris.
Larry then states that he has
definitive evidence that it was
Iris who was flying over the
bridge. Time for the final
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Larry Butz's Testimony-Proof
That Iris Flew!~
--------------------------------
-When I reached Dusky Bridge she

-I was so worried! So I frantica

-That led to me finding a beauti
snow!

-I'm sure that Iris was simply w

-After all, no one else could ha

Larry's testimony mentions a
crystal sphere, which has some
blood stuck on it. CRYSTAL
SPHERE will be added to the
Court Record. At the final
statement, present the Victim's
Staff. Someone did lose a sphere
that night, and naturally, it
was Elise from the top of her
staff. Edgeworth will show
Elise's photo, and the crystal
sphere can clearly be seen at
the end of it. It's missing from
the staff now, though.

The crystal sphere was lying
where the "flying person"
landed. This means the person
who flew might have been Elise.
Franziska thinks that everything
Larry has said and presented,
including the sphere, is
worthless and should not be
cared for. She says the sphere
could have been thrown there
after the murder. It must have
been, since there is blood all
over it. So, unless you can
prove when the crystal sphere
was placed, this case is going
nowhere.

Choose "Yes, I can.". You'll be
asked to present the evidence
that proves the sphere was
dropped before the murder.
Present the Crystal Sphere
itself. It was half-buried in
the snow, as Larry pointed out.
It must have been snowing when
it was dropped, yet it wasn't
snowing when Elise was murdered.
Thusly, it was dropped before
the murder.

Elise did go to Dusky Bridge
that night, and something caused
the crystal sphere to drop from
her staff. This means that the
real crime scene could have been
near Dusky Bridge. Franziska
will point out that Bikini saw
Iris take the sword out, but
what's important there is that
that is ALL she saw. She never
saw the killing itself. So, even
though the body was found at the
courtyard, it's likely that the
murder occurred at Dusky Bridge.
As Franziska said earlier, the
sword's insertion would stop the
leaking of blood, explaining why
none was found there.

What's the method that the body
was transported to the courtyard
so fast? Present the Tracks
Photo. Obviously, the snowmobile
was the only way the body could
have reached that point so fast.
It may seem that this hurts
Iris's position, but it really
doesn't. We don't know where
Elise was truly killed, why her
body was moved, and what Larry's
image actually means.

After Franziska whips Larry into
submission for making it
impossible to defeat Edgeworth,
this day of trial will end. It's
time to pass the baton over to
Phoenix and finish this case.

================================
  ~9E.Part 3-1 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 9, 3:43 AM
Location-Hotti Clinic; Intensive
Care Unit
--------------------------------
Phoenix will be seen in his bed,
checking the contents of an old
trial on his computer. This is
the same as the intro to case
3-4, if you couldn't tell. Back
to playing as Phoenix! I'm sure
we will all miss Edgeworth :(

------------------------
Date-February 9, 2:43 PM
Location-Dusky Bridge
------------------------
Edgeworth will appear infront of
you. Phoenix isn't feeling
perfect, but he's fit enough to
finish the case. He's read over
the trial records, and Edgeworth
says that he's going to leave
for a while and check up on
Iris's background information.
Gumshoe is going to be busy to,
trying to make a path to reach
Maya. Head to the Main Gate.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Franziska and Larry will be
arguing infront of the gate.
Larry's is quite persistant on
trying to get Franziska to model
for a picture. Larry takes his
leave, so now we can talk to
Franziska. Talk to her about
"Franziska von Karma". Seems
that she hasn't got over her
losses against Phoenix, or her
father's.

Talk about "Today's trial" next.
She came here, expecting to whip
Phoenix into the ground, but
instead found Edgeworth waiting.
Now, talk about "What happened".
Nothing much comes out of this,
but Phoenix knows that it is
important to talk to Maya about
the details. Head to the Main
Hall when you are finished.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Hall
--------------------------------
Bikini is in here, and in a
sadder mood than usual as well.
She also breaks the news to
Phoenix that Pearl hasn't been
seen since the evening of the
incident. Talk about "Iris". She
goes on to say that she is sure
she saw Iris pull the sword from
Elise's body, which is still
fine since it doesn't define her
as the killer. But then there's
Larry's testimony. The only
thing that can be picked up from
Larry and Bikini is that they
sure didn't see what they
thought. Perhaps it was the real
killer that just happened to
look like Iris?

Ask about the "Inner Temple"
next. She's sure that Iris
entered the Inner Temple, and
yet Iris says that she didn't.
Neither of them are lying, as it
appears. Bikini goes on to say
that the mountain is prone to
earthquakes, as well. She then
says that the Inner Temple has
nothing else around it, so the
killer would be trapped as well.
We gotta get Maya out, fast!

Talk about "Elise Deauxnim"
last. Bikini keeps calling her
"Mystic" Elise, and there must
be a reason. Five Psyche-Locks
will appear over her, so it must
be a pretty important secret.
This is like, what, the sixth
topic with five Psyche-Locks?

Talk about "Pearl" now. She was
only seen at dinner, and after
that, nobody seemed to have
noticed where she ran off to.
The only possible location for
her would be in the Inner
Temple, where Maya is trapped as
well. Head to the Courtyard.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Courtyard
--------------------------------
You'll need to come here before
Gumshoe finished the bridge.
Head back to the Main Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Hall
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will burst onto the
scene, exclaiming that he has
finished the bridge as he
promised. Franziska apapears as
well, whipping at Gumshoe
angrily. She'll be taking over
Bikini's place in the
investigation. She'll be
following you around for a
little bit. Ugh. Head to the
Suspension Bridge, and then to
the Inner Temple Gate from
there.

--------------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Inner Temple Gate
--------------------------
Pearl will be here, shocked to
see Phoenix. After calming her
down, she will say that ever
since Dusky Bridge burned down,
she has been all alone out here.
Does that mean Maya is still
missing? After Pearl totally
smack talks Franziska, she will
run off, claiming the whole
incident was her own fault.

Phoenix notes that the area
looks different, so get to it.
Examine the large incinerator on
the right side of the left
screen. The day before, snow was
covering the incinerator. Now
its uncovered, the door is open,
and there's nothing on the
inside. Seems that somebody
burned something, something
important.

That's all there is here. Enter
the Training Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-Inner
Temple; Training Hall
--------------------------------
Maya isn't in here either.
What's stranger is that there is
a lock on the door ahead.
Examine the lock, naturally. It
is shaped exactly like a Psyche-
Lock, probably guarding the
secrets of the cavern ahead. Now
examine the poster on the wall.
Gravy has been spilt all over
the poster of Misty. First of
all, why would anybody do this?
Next, who? HANGING SCROLL will
be updated in the Court Record.

Godot will interrupt your little
investigation. Took him long
enough to appear, it seems. Him
and Franziska will complain
mainly about Phoenix, and how
he's started a large chain of
events. Talk about "Why didn't
you show?". Godot will say that
he was killed and brought back
to life, explaining the visor he
wears. Not only that, but it
allows him to see. Still,
though, he isn't able to see
perfectly with it. When
Franziska asks who killed him,
Godot says that Phoenix should
know the answer. Perhaps you
will find out soon enough.

Ask about "Can't undo?". Godot
claims that Maya cannot be on
this side of Dusky Bridge. There
is, though, only one place she
could be. That would be the
Sacred Cavern, through the
locked door ahead. What's worse,
the temperature inside the
cavern drops below freezing, so
Maya would likely be dead if she
was found in there. He calls it
a "Trick Lock" and is working on
a way of opening it. Seems that
this is the second woman to have
been killed by Phoenix Wright.
The first being, of course, Mia.

Ask about "Mia Fey" next. Godot
says that since you failed in
protecting Mia from Redd White,
she was promptly killed and it
is all your fault (despite the
fact Phoenix actually arrived
there moments after she was
found dead).

Now talk about the "Trick lock".
He says that any force used to
open the lock could result in
the Inner Temple collapsing
within itself. Godot then says
that the only person who can
open the lock is the one who
made it-- Iris. She will be here
shortly to try and open the
lock. Although, you can probably
guess that'll fail since it's
technically impossible for her
to open it if she was never in
the Inner Temple to begin with.

Godot takes his leave, after a
few words of hatred. Head back
to the Inner Temple Gate.

--------------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Inner Temple Gate
--------------------------
Gumshoe will be waiting here.
He's talking about "washing"
something off. He says that you
shouldn't go through the gate
that reads "No Entry". Gumshoe
already went through it, though,
saying that there was a garden
back there. Head there.

-----------------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Inner Temple; Garden
-----------------------------
Gumshoe will follow you into the
Garden as well. Talk to him
about "The investigation". He
says that nothing can be found
in the Inner Temple, so instead
starts talking about the Garden.
The two main things here to note
are the stone lantern and the
area without any snow on the
ground. Gumshoe isn't able to
tell you the results, though.

Talk about "Maya" next. He says
that Edgeworth is escorting Iris
over here as we speak. Sadly,
Edgeworth seems to have some bad
news for you when he arrives.
That's just great.

Start examining the scene. Start
off with the large stone pillar
ahead of you. Maya's name is
written on the stone. As if that
wasn't bad enough, it is written
in blood. Now look for a small
red object lying on the snow to
the left. This object belonged
to Elise before she was killed.
KURAIN MASTER'S TALISMAN added
to the Court Record.

Now talk to Gumshoe about the
"Bloody writing". If you didn't
guess it already, that blood
belonged to Elise. Oddly, Maya's
name is written upside down on
the stone. This means that Elise
could have written this herself
using her own blood. Gumshoe
states that it likely the garden
was the real location of the
murder.

Now you can talk about the "True
crime scene". Could this mean
that everything Bikini saw was
faked? Or is the evidence here
faked, setup after the real
murder occurred? Sadly, that one
isn't possible. This place was
inaccessible since Dusky Bridge
burned down after the murder.
Also, Gumshoe and his team were
the first ones here, so nobody
could have planted the evidence.
We need to find out what Bikini
truly saw. Head back to the Main
Gate now.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Iris will arrive, with Edgeworth
right behind her. He says that
you aren't allowed to interfere
with the investgation, so you'll
have to do something elsewhere.
He'll notify you if anything
important turns up. Head into
the Main Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Hall
--------------------------------
Bikini is still in here,
fortunately. She's hiding a huge
secret, so present the Magatama
and get ready to find out.

--------------------------------
~Bikini's Magatama Secret-Elise
Deauxnim~
--------------------------------
Phoenix says that Elise is
important to this temple, and is
hiding her true identity.
Phoenix had his suspicions, and
now needs to present some
evidence to prove them. Present
the Kurain Master's Talisman.
Bikini looks flustered when you
present it, and she keeps
calling it a talisman. Seems
that she knows what it is. You
need to present a second item
that proves Elise's identity.

Present the Hanging Scroll.
There is a crest right above
Misty's picture, and that same
crest is on the talisman that
Elise was wearing. This pretty
much connects that Elise is
actually Misty. Or, was Misty.
Well, that's awesome. We meet
Misty for ten minutes and then
she gets killed. I love that.
All the locks are destroyed.
--------------------------------
Talk about "Elise Deauxnim" now.
Misty came here about a week
ago. The symbol is the sign of
the master. However, if she was
hiding for 17 years, why did she
turn up now? Bikini says
something drove her out of
hiding. Before you get to that,
an earthquake occurs.

That's not good. The Inner
Temple could cave in. Edgeworth
is probably scared, too. Head to
the Main Gate.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Edgeworth will appear, saying
that Iris is missing.
Edgeworth's fear of earthquakes
from a previous incident gave
Iris the perfect oppertunity to
escape. Phoenix says that she
isn't likely to have run away,
though. She is likely at the
Inner Temple.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-Inner
Temple; Training Hall
--------------------------------
The place didn't cave in, but,
five Psyche-Locks are now
covering the door into the
cavern. Iris appears, but you
won't get anything out of her
until after the short break.
Save the game.

================================
  ~9F.Part 3-2 Investigation~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-Inner
Temple; Training Hall
--------------------------------
Edgeworth will take his leave,
but not before Iris says that
she is completely unable to
remove these locks. Talk to her
about her "Escape". She says she
came running to check the Sacred
Cavern when the earthquake
occurred. She found all of these
locks in place when she arrived.
Seems that she has no idea who
did this.

Ask about the "Trick lock" next.
Iris says that there are many
ways to set the locks, so only
the person who set them can open
them back up. There was only one
lock to begin with, and now
there's five. This may mean that
someone wanted to ensure Maya
couldn't escape. Iris is likely
only able to break the first
lock. Iris is able to open the
rest, but it could take more
than a day to do so.

Talk about "The night of the
crime". Seems that Iris isn't
ready to explain why she was
spotted at the Inner Temple and
at the Courtyard. Luckily, there
are only three Psyche-Locks on
her this time. Move to the Inner
Temple gate now.

--------------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Inner Temple Gate
--------------------------
You've got four people to talk
to--Edgeworth, Bikini, Gumshoe,
and Pearl. They hold the
remaining information to this
case. Move to the Garden.

-----------------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Inner Temple; Garden
-----------------------------
Edgeworth will be here, as he
said he would. He says that he
found something terrible by
looking into Iris's profile at
the Criminal Affairs Dept.

Talk to him about "The
investigation". It looks like
Maya could be murderer at this
point as well. That's not good.
Talk about "Earthquakes" next.
Edgeworth will talk about the
fateful incident that killed his
father, and started his fear of
earthquakes. It's something you
probably already know.

Ask about "Iris" now. Edgeworth
was sure he had met Iris before,
but in court. Turns out she was
in court six years ago. He says
that the girl he saw in court
has nothing to do with this
murder. Phoenix is sure she
does, though, and needs to
present evidence that links them
together. You don't have it at
the moment, though, so carry on
with the investigation by moving
to Heavenly Hall.

---------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Dusky Bridge
---------------------
Phoenix says there's someone in
Heavenly Hall, so continue to
move there.

----------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Heavenly Hall
----------------------
Larry and Pearl will be here,
complaining that they are total
failures. That's just great.
You'll only be able to talk to
Pearl, though, so that's fine.
Talk about "Laurice's Sketch".
Pearl will comment on Larry's
drawing of the bridge on fire,
and Larry will complain that
nobody is taking him seriously
when he says he saw Iris fly.
Heh.

Talk about "The night of the
crime" next. Pearl had to have
been doing something that night,
something concerning the Inner
Temple. Five Psyche- Locks will
appear around her before you can
investigate further. She then
says afterwards that her
spirtual powers have
disappeared.

Talk about "Lost powers" next.
Pearl tried to summon somebody
at the temple and failed. Who,
though, is a mystery until her
Psyche-Locks are broken. Move to
the Main Hall now.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Just head straight to the Main
Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Bikini is still here, and will
continue the story about Misty
that she was telling. Several
weeks ago, Misty came to the
temple and presented the sacred
talisman. She said somebody is
trying to destroy the Kurain
Tradition's family line. She is
here at the temple to stop it.
Bikini says that branch families
have no chance of becoming
master, so they try to wipe out
the main family line.

Talk to her about the "Kurain
Channeling Technique". Bikini
says that everything was well
until an incident, the DL-6
Incident 17 years ago, that the
technique's praise came crashing
down.

Talk about the "DL-6 Incident"
next. That one incident made
Misty look like a sham, and she
went into hiding. But since you
found that the real fraud was
the person who she channeled,
the opinions of the clan is
recovering slowly.

Talk about "Family feud" next.
Seems that Mia became a defense
lawyer so that she didn't have
to worry about becoming the next
Master. Morgan is also brought
up, Maya's aunt. Bikini then
says that Iris is actually
Morgan's daughter. Um, didn't
see that one coming.

Talk about "Morgan and Iris"
now. Bikini says that Morgan had
three daughters, and not just
two as you've thought. Iris has
a twin sister. When Morgan's
husband saw that Morgan couldn't
become the new master, he took
Iris and her sister along with
him as he left. He became a
jeweler not long after,
remarried, and sent one of his
daughters up here to the temple.

Bikini doesn't know the name of
the other sister, though. But
Morgan must have some part to do
with Misty's murder. With this
new mystery profile added to the
Court Record, head to the
Courtyard.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Courtyard
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will be here, singing a
merry tune to himself. He says
that he is busy searching for
the missing murder weapon, but
all he's found so far is a scrap
piece of paper. Talk about "The
investigation". Everybody thinks
that the Garden was the real
murder location, and Godot
thinks things will turn ugly if
Maya can't be released in time.

Talk about "The letter" next.
The letter is mostly burnt, and
he found it in the incinerator
outside of the Inner Temple.
Looks like it really did have an
earlier use. The letter has
something to with spirit
mediums, or so says Gumshoe.
BURNT LETTER will be added to
the Court Record.

Look at the letter. There are
three pages to it, and it
appears to be a murder plan
judging by the portion that
hasn't been burned off. Seems
that someone wants revenge by
killing the Master. Talk about
the "Murder weapon" next.

Gumshoe has been running around
trying to find the missing
sword, and he's using a secret
weapon to do it, too. Talk about
the "Secret weapon". Gumshoe
present his handy Metal
Detector, and asks you to help
him. Choose to "Play forensics
expert". Gumshoe will explain
what to do. Move the cursor
around and find objects made out
of metal, either in plain sight
or hidden from view. When the
CHECK meter flashes rapidly,
you're over a metallic object.

Check the Ami Fey statue if you
want to find out Gumshoe
secretly wants to be the Blue
Badger. Now back to business.
Check the location of the
Victim's Staff on the ground.
Phoenix will pick up the staff,
which realistically shouldn't be
reacting to the detector, and
finds that the top comes off of
it. The staff ends up hiding a
sword at the end. Could this be
it? Ask about the "Murder
weapon" again.

If this is the real murder
weapon, why is it here in the
Courtyard? But, there's no blood
stains on the sword. Gumshoe
will take it to the forensics
lab for analysis. But, Phoenix
needs the staff until Maya is
found. VICTIM'S STAFF will be
updated in the Court Record.
Move to the Garden again.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-Inner
Temple Gate; Garden
--------------------------------
Present the profile of the
mysterious woman to Edgeworth.
He seems shocked to learn Iris
has a twin sister as well. After
a little more explaination,
Edgeworth says he might just
know who the woman is. Yeah,
it's Dahlia Hawthorne. Talk
about "Dahlia Hawthorne" now.

Edgeworth and Phoenix will talk
about the events that involved
Dahlia and the kidnapping. That
was also around the time she
tried to kill Phoenix. Edgeworth
states again that he's sure
Dahlia isn't connected with the
case because she is dead.

Now talk about "Dahlia's death".
It took six years, but last
month, Dahlia was finally
executed. This means that she
can't be connected with this
case, or so says Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is also aware of
Morgan, at least because of
Misty's fraudulent help in the
DL-6 Incident.

You have the needed information.
Move back to the Training Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-February 9 Location-Inner
Temple; Training Hall
--------------------------------
Present the Magatama, and let's
get this underway.

--------------------------------
~Iris's Magatama Secret-The
Night of the Crime~
--------------------------------
Iris claims that she was in her
room throughout the entire
night. However, that cannot be
true, and you need to show the
profile of who saw Iris. Present
Bikini's profile. She was sure
that she saw Iris come into the
Inner Temple that night. The
first lock will break.

Iris says that she did leave her
room at around 9:40 PM to reach
the Inner Temple. However, that
can't be possible, and you need
to present why. Present Iris's
Testimony. After all, it was
Iris herself who said that she
had to ring the bell at 10 PM.
Phoenix saw her do that at
around 10 PM, so she couldn't
have been at the Inner Temple at
that exact moment. The second
lock will break off.

This means she was in two places
at the same time. Ringing the
bell, and at the Inner Temple.
There can only be one reason for
this. Choose "There were two of
you.". Surely, she says, that
can't be right. Well, yeah, but
it doesn't stop someone from
pretending to be you. And that
helps if the person looked like
her to begin with. Present
Dahlia Hawthorne's profile.

It is possible that someone
channeled Dahlia, and that's
what Iris has been trying to
hide this whole time. The final
lock will break.
--------------------------------
Now talk about "The night of the
crime". As soon as she heard she
had been seen at the Inner
Temple, she knew that it was
Dahlia. Iris says that Dahlia
always does the right thing, and
that Iris already betrayed her.
She is already aware she may be
found guilty.

Now talk about "The traitor".
She says that the events on
Dusky Bridge 11 years ago was
the start of Dahlia's demise.
She started the kill many people
after that. Terry, Valerie,
Doug, and Phoenix too if
everything had gone right. And
its all because Iris betrayed
her. Iris was the one who
planned the events at Dusky
Bridge. Iris panicked and ran
away, though.

She then says that Dahlia didn't
do the crime for the money. It
was revenge for her father. Now
talk about "Revenge". Her mother
was Morgan. She would become the
Master once Misty died. That's
all her husband married her for.
But his place backfired. Iris
thought she had no place in her
new family, so she went to the
temple.

As an added bonus, Iris says
that Dahlia hated the college
student that she had relations
with. The very last thing left
is Pearl's Psyche-Locks. After
that, everything should make
sense. Back to Heavenly Hall.

----------------------
Date-February 9
Location-Heavenly Hall
----------------------
Present the Magatama. This is
it!

--------------------------------
~Pearl Fey's Magatama Secret-The
Night of the Crime~
--------------------------------
Pearl was going to go with Misty
to read some books, but she was
worried about something and had
to go somewhere else. You will
need to point out the place on
the map that Pearl went to.
Point and present the Inner
Temple. Now that we have
established that, she had to go
because of something or someone.
You'll need to present that.
Present Maya's profile. She was
worried that Maya would be in
trouble, so she followed her
there. The first of the locks
will finally break off.

Pearl says she went to the Inner
Temple at around 9:30, when she
left the Main Hall. She says she
didn't reach the Inner Temple
until after 10, because she
heard the bell ring. However,
the bell should have been hard
to hear from that distance.
Something must have been making
her worried of the bell's
ringing. Present the Burnt
Letter.

The letter is a set of
instructions that Pearl was
ordered to take. On one of the
pages it says to wait until the
bell rings. Pearl is amazed
you've made it this far. The
second lock will break.

Taking into account the author
of the note, and their purpose
for writing it, whose spirit was
Pearl required to channel?
Present Dahlia Hawthorne's
profile. There's nothing
stopping the third lock from
shattering. This now proves that
it was Dahlia who was at the
Inner Temple, not Iris. Pearl
had never heard of Dahlia
before, so she didn't know Iris
was her sister either.

Now, who wrote this letter? It
had to have been somebody that
Pearl respects greatly. Present
Morgan Fey's profile. Pearl
didn't really know what was
going on, but it was her mother,
so she followed them. The fourth
lock will break off.

Pearl doesn't think you have any
proof that she actually followed
these instructions. However,
Phoenix knows a child did it,
and that could be Pearl. Why?
They made a simple mistake an
adult never would have made. She
misunderstood something,
resulting in the last piece of
evidence you must present.
Present the Hanging Scroll. The
note said to "gravely roast" the
Master.

Remember that Pearl even asked
Misty about the words gravely
and roast. She still didn't know
what they meant, though. She
assumed she had to cover the
picture of Misty with gravy. The
final lock of this game will
break.
--------------------------------
Now talk about "The night of the
crime". Pearl left the Main Hall
with some of the gravy. She
couldn't go inside of Inner
Temple because of Maya's
training. Pearl waited outside,
and eventually fell asleep. She
found herself trapped when she
awoke the next morning. She
tossed the letter into the
incinerator, then spread the
gravy over the picture.

Now talk about "Lost powers"
again. She was on her way to the
temple when she heard the bell,
and then tried to channel
Dahlia. However, she wasn't able
to do it. This is probably why
she thinks that she lost her
powers. However, there may be
another possibility. She can't
do it if someone is already
channeling her. Anyway, this
letter was Morgan's last wish.

Now talk about "Morgan's
letter". Pearl visited Morgan
monthly, and on her last visit,
Morgan told her that she hid a
letter at the temple. Morgan
said to follow it exactly,
helping the Fey clan by doing
so. Morgan included a picture of
Dahlia. Another thing was odd
about the letter. The seal was
broken, meaning someone had
already read it. BURNT LETTER
will be updated in the Court
Record.

Godot will make his entrance. He
says there's no point of what
Iris is doing at the Inner
Temple as Maya isn't coming
back. He says everything will be
settled in court.

A brief sequence with Morgan,
happily saying Pearl is the new
Master. Not on our watch! Save
the game. Time to end this case.

================================
      ~9G.Part 4-1 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 9:39 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Edgeworth appears, telling you
that Iris isn't in this lobby
because she is in the
prosecutor's lobby. Looks like
she is going to be a witness. He
says that Godot is pushing for
her to make a confession.
Edgeworth goes on to say that
Franziska has been busily
working on the trick locks, and
should have the cavern open in
several hours.

You need to figure out why Misty
ended up in the courtyard, what
Larry's drawing really means,
and what Morgan was really
after. Time for court to end all
this.

--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 7
--------------------------------
The regular Judge is in here due
to his brother catching a fever
right before the trial. Oh well.
Good to have the normal Judge
here, anyway. Godot goes on to
say that Iris has finally
admitted what role she has had
in the crime. This will be her
confession.

Iris says that she was involved
with the cover up that took
place after the murder. She
carried Misty's body over to the
courtyard, at which time she put
the Shichishito into it. Iris's
Testimony will be thrown away
due to it now pretty much being
all a lie. She says that she
knows who the murderer is, and
saw it take place.

--------------------------------
~Iris's Testimony-The Real
Murderer~
--------------------------------
-I went to the Inner Temple that
garden.

-I saw Mystic Elise strike Mysti

-While Mystic Maya was still stu
a fatal strike!

-Mystic Maya tried desperately t

-It was only in self-defense! Yo

Start by pressing the third
statement. Iris will say that
Elise threw down her staff in
order to get a dagger. Godot
will ask if there's a problem,
so choose "There is one
thing...". The next statement
will be added to the testimony:

-She threw her staff away and pu

Present the Victim's Staff at
this new statement. Throwing her
staff down would make no sense,
considering that the staff
itself is its own weapon. Godot
will quickly object, saying that
a sword isn't a good weapon of
choice in close combat,
explaining why she would have
gone for the dagger.

Phoenix will go on to say that
there's something else wrong
with her testimony, and that you
have evidence to show why she
wouldn't want to kill Maya.
Present Elise Deauxnim's
profile. It's doubtful that
Maya's own mother would want to
kill her.

Iris had no idea that Elise was
really Misty, so she is
surprised, along with Godot.
However, Godot says that during
Iris's confession earlier this
morning, he sent Gumshoe to the
crime scene, and found a dagger.
There are also bloodstains on
the tip of it. There wasn't
enough time to find the person
who they belonged to, but it's
probably Misty's. DAGGER added
to the Court Record.

This makes Iris's testimony
somewhat believable. She'll
testify again, this time about
the battle.

-----------------------------
~Iris's Testimony-The Battle~
-----------------------------
-Mystic Maya stumbled briefly af
staff...

-But then she dodged Mystic Elis

-Suddenly Mystic Elise was the o
stone lantern.

-That's when Mystic Maya stabbed

-Mystic Elise managed to fling t
collapsed.

Present Elise's Autopsy Report
at the fourth statement. Looking
at the picture Iris has at that
statement, it is quite clear
Maya would be stabbing Misty in
the front. However, the Autopsy
Report says that she was stabbed
in the back.

Godot will say that the garden
was dark when Iris saw the
murder. Godot will mention that
when acolytes are training, the
same stone lantern is supposed
to be lit. However, Bikini has
told Godot that it was
impossible to light the lantern
that night. Basically, Godot is
making all of these
contradictions worthless by
blaming it on the fact there was
no light.

STONE LANTERN will be added to
the Court Record. The Judge will
mention that something is
written in blood, something that
Godot wasn't even aware about.
Yeah, he didn't know "Maya" was
written upsidedown on it,
either. Iris now says that Misty
was alive long enough for her to
write "Maya" on the lantern as
she fell.

Godot will continue to argue
that nothing is written on the
lantern. Why isn't Godot able to
see the bloody writing? Godot
mentioned something along these
lines yesterday at the Inner
Temple. Godot will turn back to
Iris, saying that she did
something after the murder.
She'll testify about it.

--------------------------------
~Iris's Testimony-Sister Iris's
Cover-Up~
--------------------------------
-After Mystic Elise died...I cal

-I thought it was my duty to pro
Tradition.

-So I removed the body from the 

-I dragged it behind me all the 

-Then I used the snowmobile to c

-...I used the Shichishito to al

Is Iris trying to pin the crime
on Maya? Press the fifth
statement. Iris will say that
she did have the key, so it
wasn't hard to get the
snowmobile over there. Choose to
ask "About the tracks". She'll
bring up again that snow was
falling when she left, so her
first set of tracks were covered
up. Choose that "It's very
important.". The following line
will be added:

-By the time the murder took pla

With this new statement, head
back to the fourth statement.
Present the Weather Data here.
The snow couldn't have stopped
when the murder was performed.
Snow stopped at 10:50, and the
bridge caight fire five minutes
beforehand. Iris is a bit
shocked at this. If the murder
happened as Iris said it did,
then there's no possible way she
could have brought the body to
the courtyard.

Godot will object, saying that
these contradictions are still
meaningless. He says that
Misty's body was still found in
the Courtyard, and Bikini still
saw Iris staging the murder.
Godot will ask you, if Iris is
still telling the truth as she
claims, how did the body reach
the Courtyard with the burned
bridge?

Iris will have to give another
testimony about how she
transferred the body to the
Courtyard.

--------------------------------
~Iris's Testimony-Moving the
Body~
--------------------------------
-Other than walking over the bri

-So I...must have just...gotten 

-Was the snow still falling or h
that much?

-Or are you saying that there is

Godot will present a photo of
Dusky Bridge after it burned
down. DUSKY BRIDGE PHOTO will be
added to the Court Record. Yeah,
there is another way to cross
the bridge, Ms. Let's Pin the
Murder on Others. Present
Larry's Sketch at the final
statement. Yeah, someone's dead
body flying across the bridge
isn't unplausable.

Larry was the one who saw it
happen. The Judge isn't too
happy that you are presenting
such flimsy evidence. Godot says
that if you're trying to turn
everything upsidedown, then
start with the sketch. What was
the sketch? Say it was "a
complete contradiction.". Larry
said that the sketch was exactly
as he saw it. However, that
means the sketch is
contradictory.

You will need to point out the
contradiction. Point to the
suspension wires above the
bridge. Godot will ask you to
present evidence that shows this
contradicts the facts. Present
the Dusky Bridge Photo. If you
look at the photo, the wires are
below the bridge. In Larry's
sketch, they are somehow above
the bridge.

There must be some reason for
this mistake, right? Larry was
lying down when he was awakened
by the lightning bolt. He was
lying on his back when he saw
the scene the way he did. This
means he drew the scene
upsidedown. If you were to flip
Larry's sketch around, it
appears that someone's body is
falling off the bridge. Now THAT
is more plausable. But not
falling, but rather swinging
below the bridge using a
disconnected suspension wire.

Godot says that in order for a
pendulam to have worked, you
would need a rope of at least 10
meters long to cross the 20
meter gap. You'll need to
present evidence to support that
Iris had a rope already provided
by the bridge to swing across.
Present the Dusky Bridge Photo
again. One of the wires is
hanging from the bridge, and it
is the only possible way to have
swung to the other side.

Godot will finally object,
saying if you have more evidence
to prove this actually happened.
Present Elise's Autopsy Report.
Looking at an overhead map of
Dusky Bridge, Misty's body would
have swung to an opposite
corner. Her body was dropped
when it reached the other end,
as the Autopsy Report says. When
she impacted the ground, the
crystal sphere was knocked off
of her staff.

Where was the crystal found?
Right where Phoenix suggests
that Misty's body landed from
the swing. Godot says that if
Iris were to swing the body to
the other side, it's natural
that someone should be there to
catch it. You will need to show
who the other person could have
been. Present Iris's profile.

Iris had access to the
snowmobile. Only she could have
moved the body, and catch it for
that matter. If she was at the
garden as supposed, then she
would be in two places at once.
Iris continues to say that she
didn't know about any pendulam
used. The only way for her to be
clueless would be if she wasn't
Iris to begin with. This woman
can't be Iris--present Dahlia
Hawthorne's profile.

Godot will show some files
saying she should be dead.
Thusly, this isn't the body of
Dahlia we're looking at, but
Dahlia in a spirit medium's
body. This isn't a mere
coincidence--it was all planned
by the burnt letter. This means
there were two Irises at the
temple that night. The one at
the Inner Temple was the fake--
Dahlia. Godot will say that the
witness has to be the real Iris.

The Iris arrested was the one on
the main side of the burnt
bridge, which is confirmed to be
the real Iris. However, could
they have switched places at any
time? Well? Choose that "There
was one..." place they could
have switched. Iris's
whereabouts were unknown at one
point yesterday. You'll need to
present the profile of the
person responsible for this.
Present Edgeworth's profile.

Edgeworth is scared of
earthquakes, and Iris was able
to escape his grasp ever so
luckily at that moment. She was
found at the Inner Temple later,
and that was when they switched
spots.

The focus will be sent back to
Iris who will finally admit that
she is really Dahlia. With an
evil smirk on her face, there is
nothing anybody can do. She is
dead, so any punishment would be
pointless. Save the game when
prompted.

================================
      ~9H.Part 4-2 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 1:06 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 7
--------------------------------
Continuing from where we left
off, it's time for Dahlia to
explain herself.

--------------------------------
~Dahlia Hawthorne's Testimony-
The Plan~
--------------------------------
-...The whole plan began with my

-A stupid plan hatched by Morgan
next Master.

-But for it to work...Maya Fey w

-The idea was for me to kill May

-The plan went wrong...but it se

You will need to press the first
through fifth statements. You
will learn that Morgan thought
of the plan with Dahlia in the
detention center. The rest of
the statements will make Phoenix
pretty angry, and will likely
annoy you as well. After
pressing the final statement,
Dahlia will say she thought that
Morgan's plan was stupid.

Dahlia finally says she agreed
to help because of her own
interests. She had her own
reason to want Maya dead. The
following line will be added:

-Do you understand why I would k

Yeah, we understand. Hopefully.
Present Mia Fey's profile here.
She said it herself in the very
first case--she wanted revenge.
However, she couldn't take
revenge against someone who was
dead. Dahlia was sentenced to
death because of Mia. However,
she settled for the next best
thing that meant the most to Mia
--and that was Maya. It was the
only way she could take revenge
against her.

Dahlia was called at 9:30. She
picked up a nearby staff left
for her and left the temple.
This means it was Misty who
channeled her. She went up to
Maya in the garden, then stabbed
her with the dagger. Dahlia then
says she isn't sure what
happened after that. She thinks
that she was stabbed. Before she
passed out, she wrote Maya's
name on the lantern. That's
where her memory stops.

Actually, she didn't kill Maya.
The last thing she saw was her
face before killing her. After
that, Dahlia ended up in the
Sacred Cavern. She has no idea
how she got trapped in there.
She wanted to escape to be sure
that Maya was dead. She couldn't
unlock the trick locks placed on
the door, either. Someone kept
interrupting her. Was it Maya?
Only two people could have gone
in there, them being Maya and
Pearl.

She managed to unlock the door,
but the police were already
investigating. So, she put the
lock back on the door and stayed
in the cavern. However, the real
Iris appeared. Taking this as
her chance, Dahlia escaped and
put the real Iris into the
cavern, locking it with five
trick locks to ensure she
couldn't escape.

At this time, she finally
learned the plan worked. She's
sure that Misty called her and
not Pearl. After all, after
leaving the garden, it was
Misty's body that was left
there. But she's sure Maya ended
up killing her own mother in the
process. She says that Maya is
still missing and the only place
she could be is at the bottom of
Eagle River.

Godot's phone rings, and he
reports that the locks were
finally removed from the door.
Looks like Iris was in there
after all. Godot will say that
what Dahlia is saying what Maya
did is probably not true. If
Maya threw herself into the
river, it would be on the Inner
Temple side after the bridge
caught on fire. However, that's
impossible, or so says Godot. Is
there any evidence to back that
up? Present the Hazakura Temple
Map.

Near the Inner Temple is a large
layer of bedrock. Maya couldn't
have reached the river if she
jumped from there. Her body
would be visible in the photo if
she did. Now, there is only one
place remaining that Maya could
possibly still be in. Choose
that she is "in this very
courtroom.". Take that you
psycho!

Well, who could possibly be
channeling Dahlia right now? It
can't be Iris, Misty is dead,
and Pearl obviously isn't doing
it. Pearl tried already, and she
said that she can't do it if
someone else is already
channeling her. Present Maya's
profile. If Maya channeled the
person trying to kill her, then
she was only protecting herself.

Well, Dahlia is in Maya's body
for sure. Dahlia goes psycho,
totally not believing that this
is true. Mia will finally
appear, saying that she could
have come up with such a
brilliant idea. Mia says that
Maya lost conciousness at the
same time as Dahlia. Maya woke
up in the Training Hall, so she
channeled Mia for help. She left
a memo explaining the situation.
Mia told Maya to channel Dahlia,
locking herself in the Sacred
Cavern.

She would have been channeled by
Pearl if she didn't. Looks like
she just got totally owned. Yup.
This is only made worse by the
explanation that every crime
she's committed has ended in
complete failure. Seems like
Dahlia's punishment will be her
stacked failures. How fitting.

Dahlia is finally forced out of
Maya's body, and disappears in
the shape of the Magatama. Looks
like Maya is back, finally. The
real Iris is also back. The
final verdict on Iris is about
to be given...but Godot objects,
saying that the real killer of
Misty has still yet to be found.
The only person left who can
testify on these matters is
Maya.

--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 2:56 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Phoenix asks Iris why she was so
willing to help out Dahlia. Iris
says she was sorry for what
Dahlia had gone through in her
life. She loved Dahlia enough to
help her with the crime. The
fake kidnapping years ago, that
is. She was afraid, though, so
Iris ran away. In the end, that
caused Valerie and Terry to get
killed.

Mia and Diego were the only ones
suspicious of Dahlia. After
killing Diego for almost
figuring this all out, she tried
to kill Phoenix because he had
the bottle of poison. Iris also
admits that it was her who tried
to clean up Misty's body. She
headed for the Inner Temple on
the snowmobile when she got a
phone call, but Dusky Bridge was
already on fire. So, Dahlia on
the other side decided to fling
Misty's body across the river.
The murder weapon, her staff,
was left in her body to prevent
much blood loss.

Iris brought the body back, then
stabbed Misty with the
Shichishito. She wiped the
staff's blade and left it on the
ground. VICTIM'S STAFF will be
updated. Also, Iris is unable to
say who really killed Misty. Mia
appears, and says that she told
Maya everything. Phoenix has an
inkling of who the real killer
is, and it has to be someone who
knew Dahlia's plan from the
start. This also means the
criminal was trapped on the
Inner Temple side due to the
burned bridge. Everything else
is up to you. Save the game.

================================
      ~9I.Part 4-3 Trial~
================================
--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 3:36 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 7
--------------------------------
The results of the bloody dagger
tests have com in. A full test
wasn't possible, but the blood
on the dagger wasn't that of the
victim's. DAGGER will be updated
in the Court Record. Maya will
be brought in, and she will
testify on what she saw the
night of the crime.

--------------------------------
~Maya Fey's Testimony-At the
Inner Temple~
--------------------------------
-I was passing through the garde
happened.

-Suddenly, someone struck me ove

-I stumbled...and ended up again

-I think I screamed, "Help me!"

-Then something warm splashed ov

-That's when...I lost consciousn

Press the fourth statement. Maya
will talk about her last hope
when she thinks she screamed for
help. Ask further about "My last
hope". She now says that she was
not facing the attacker when
screaming for help. She was
yelling at the person behind the
attacker. The following will be
added to her testimony:

-I could see a man behind my att

Present the Stone Lantern. You
already know that it wasn't lit
that night. The man behind
Dahlia was the real killer. If
there was no light in the
garden, then Maya's testimony
has a major contradiction.
However, Maya does know there
was someone behind Dahlia. Was
there another light source at
the murder spot? Maya tries to
stop you from revealing who it
is, but that cannot happen.
Present Godot's profile.

The lights in the courtroom will
be shut off, and you will see
that Godot's visor lights up
even in the darkness. However,
Maya continues to claim that she
didn't see Godot's visor that
night. She's pretty sure that
she knows the murderer was a man
for a different reason. Maya
will need to testify again on
these matters.

--------------------------------
~Maya Fey's Testimony-The
Killer~
--------------------------------
-...When I came to, I was just l

-By the time I got back to the g

-The torches were lit...And the 

-And all of the snow around the 

-Since the person did all that w

Press the third statement. It's
odd that the killer would move
the body. Now press the fourth
statement. It's likely the snow
was moved in order to hide the
blood. Now press the second
statement. Maya will now say
that she thinks the killer was
hiding evidence for her sake.
That's why the killer went
through this trouble--so that
Maya wouldn't get charged for
the crime. The following is
added to her testimony:

-I think it was for my sake that
had happened.

Present the Stone Lantern at
this new statement once more. If
this person was so concerned
about Maya, they should have
removed one of the more obvious
pieces of incriminating
evidence. It doesn't make any
sense. Is there any explaination
for this? You'll need to give a
reason for it. Choose that "The
killer didn't notice it.". The
killer wouldn't have left it
there on purpose. So, who is the
only person there that could
have missed this entirely?
Present Godot's profile again.

Godot still isn't able to see
everything. It can be proven
with the Stone Lantern, and
Godot's reaction to evidence in
the past, that he isn't able to
see the color red. Godot will
pretty much admit that
everything Phoenix explains is
true. Godot must be the
murderer. We just need to prove
it.

The killer moved all the snow,
right? Why didn't they just take
out the bloody areas? The killer
couldn't see the red snow. So,
unaware of which was the bloody
snow, the killer removed all of
it. Godot will try getting away
by saying that it was dark, but
it's already known that the
torches were lit.

Maya will step in, saying Godot
still isn't the killer. More
testimony to come.

--------------------------------
~Maya Fey's Testimony-After the
Incident~
--------------------------------
-Pearly was also stuck on the In

-The next morning, she looked ar

-The next day, when the bridge w
room.

-That's when Mr. Godot arrived a

-He found Pearly first, and chee

Press the final statement. Godot
says he did his own
investigation that day, and
Phoenix thinks he should ask
another question. Ask about
"Godot's investigation". He
says, though, that he found
Misty in the Training Hall. This
little mis-information Godot
speaks ruins himself. At the
fourth statement, now, present
the Hanging Scroll.

Godot entered the Inner Temple
long before the murder. After
the murder, the scroll was
covered in gravy due to Pearl.
If Godot had seen the scroll
after the murder, then he
shouldn't have known what was on
the scroll. Godot heads through
this calmly, saying that
everything rests on the fact
Godot would have to have known
everything beforehand. Is it
really possible he knew of the
plan? Present the Burnt Letter.
The crime was planned over a
year ago.

The instructions in the letter
were hidden at the manor. When
Pearl found them, they were
unsealed. The killer already
knew of these plans, and that
person must be Godot. But, how
would he know where they were
hidden? Morgan told Pearl where
the letter was hidden at the
detention center one time. It's
the only time he could have
learned where it was located.

Godot reviews that information
presented so far, then asks why
he would even do all this.
However, Godot had a good reason
to protect Maya. There is one
person that ties them all
together. Present Mia's profile.
And that means Godot's real name
must be Diego Armando. But you
likely knew that from case 3-4.

Godot will finally talk about
his past. He could never forgive
Dahlia for what she had done to
Mia. One day, Dahlia wanted to
meet with Diego. It was then
that he was poisoned. Instead of
dying, he fell into a coma.
After five years, Godot finally
awoke. The worst possible news
was waiting for him when he
awoke--Mia was dead.

Godot explains his reasons for
wanting to live and become a
prosecutor. He wanted to test
Phoenix in court, and then he
wanted to watch over Maya. Godot
knew that Morgan was planning
something. Godot learned of the
plan, and was thinking he could
stop it. Godot then asked Iris
and Misty for their help. Misty
was even willing to fight for
Maya's survival with her hidden
sword in her staff.

The only way to stop the crime
was to ensure Pearl couldn't
channel Dahlia. Misty then
channeled Dahlia into her own
body to ensure Pearl couldn't.
Godot hid himself at the Inner
Temple to ensure Maya was safe.
That's it. Godot won't go any
farther. We're so close to
proving he killed Misty, damnit!
Maya will have to give another
testimony.

--------------------------------
~Maya Fey's Testimony-The Time
of the Murder~
--------------------------------
-...Just before it happened, I t

-I thought I'd ask for help, but

-She wasn't dead though...And sh

-Suddenly, the red lights went o

-...Just at that moment, there w

-Right after that...Dahlia colla

Press the first statement.
Choose to "Press harder". Maya
is still clearly terrified at
what happened. But now, press
the fifth statement. Maya will
now say that it was a man's
voice who screamed. Maya thinks
that Dahlia grabbed the blade
and stabbed the killer with it,
but you need to still choose
that "There's a contradiction.".

Maya said she was covered in
blood before the scream. Thusly,
the person infront of her was
killed before the scream. This
means it was something other
than the staff that caused the
scream. What else could she have
used to strike back at the
killer? Present the Dagger.
Dahlia struck back at the
killer, and managed to wound him
as well. If the blood on the
blade isn't Misty's, it must be
that of the killer's.

The killer has to have a wound
on their body. That's probably
Godot's blood. Godot will now
say that, if he were the killer,
would he be stupid enough to
leave that kind of evidence out?
Godot would have washed the
blood off if he were the killer.
He then says for sure that the
blood doesn't belong to him.

Maya then asks that if Godot was
cut by the dagger, he would
either have a wound or his
clothes would be damaged.
Phoenix will try to prove Maya
wrong, but to no avail. You will
be given one chance at this,
otherwise it is an instant game
over. You'll need to show how
Godot hid the wound. Present
Godot's profile.

The wound must be beneath
Godot's visor. Godot's visor
went flying off his face when
hit by the dagger.

...and that just about covers
it. It's the end of the line for
Godot. He will confess to
everything at the end.

Also, Iris will tell you
something she's been keeping
secret since the beginning of
the case. Six years ago, Dahlia
and Phoenix technically only
ever met twice. Iris was
actually posing as Dahlia the
entire time. She will explain
the rest, and after that, the
final Not Guilty verdict Phoenix
will ever obtain is handed down.

--------------------------------
Date-February 10, 4:51 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Well, that's a happy ending to
this case. In the middle of all
this, Maya will still act as
happy as ever. Franziska will
ask why Maya is being strong
despite all of these events.
Present Pearl's profile. After
some more conversation, most of
them will leave for celebration
at Tres Bien. Phoenix and Maya
will stay behind to look for
Pearl, who suddenly ran off.

--------------------------------
Date-February 10 Location-
Hazakura Temple; Main Gate
--------------------------------
Pearl will be at the temple,
fortunately. After some more
talking, the end credits will
roll. Great job beating Phoenix
Wright:Trials and Tribulations!

--------------------------------
          ~10.Credits~
--------------------------------
Thanks to all of the people that
helped make this Walkthrough
possible.

CJayC and Sailor Bacon-For
making GameFAQ's exist, main
host of this FAQ

You-For reading this walkthrough
and making the effort worthwhile

This walkthrough is property and
under copyright of Deathborn
668.