******* *   * ***** ***** *     
*     * *   * *   * *     **    
******* *   * *   * *     * *   
*       ***** *   * ***** *  *  
*       *   * *   * *     *   * 
*       *   * *   * *     *    *
*       *   * ***** ***** *     

*    * *****   ***** ***** *   *
*    * *   *     *   *     *   *
*    * *****     *   *     *   *
*    * *   *     *   *  ** *****
*    * *   *     *   *   * *   *
* ** * *    *    *   *   * *   *
**  ** *     * ***** ***** *   *

***** ***** ***** ***** *****   
*   *   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *****   
*****   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *   *   
*   *   *     *   *   * *    *  
*   *   *     *   ***** *     * 

I'd have Phoenix pointing his
finger, but I ain't good at
ASCII.

================================
    ~Line Test~
================================
If the following line is
readable without scrolling over,
you can easily read this
walkthrough. ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRS
TUVWXYZABCDEFGHIJKLMONPQRSTUVWXY
ZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVW

================================
   ~Introduction~
================================
Welcome readers! I'm Deathborn
668 on the message boards and
this is a walkthrough for
Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney;
Justice For All for the Nintendo
DS. Despite being a little late
to this game I'm still going to
write a walkthrough for this fun
game. Some Do's and Don'ts to
keep in mind: DO:
-Use this walkthrough as a
 refrence tool
-Tell people about it
-Print it for personal use
-Give to other people for no
 profit

DON'T:
-Plagerize this walkthrough
 without any credit
-Call this walkthrough "yours"
-Sell this walkthrough for
 profit

ONLY the following sites have
permission to use this
walkthrough without the need to
contact me:
-www.gamefaqs.com
-www.gamespot.com
-www.ign.com

Anybody else wishing to use this
walkthrough will need to draw
attention to me on the message
boards. I do not want any
e-mail. I'm sick of spam and
people who can't read e-mailing
me. Thanks for your concern.

================================
| ~Table of Contents~ |
================================
|1.The Gyakuten Saiben Series |
|2.Controls                     
|3.Events In and Out of Court |
|4.Characters | |5.Episode 1-The
Lost Turnabout | |6.Episode
2-Reunion, and Turnabout |
|7.Episode 3-Turnabout Big Top |
|8.Episode 4-Farewell, My
Turnabout | |9.The Good and Bad
Endings | |10.Frequently Asked
Question |
|11.Credits                     
================================
Just so you know, if you need to
skip to a certain part of the
walkthrough, just hit the Ctrl
and F buttons at the same time
and type in the name of the case
you want to see. Stop bugging me
that you can't find something in
this walkthrough.

================================
 ~1.The Gyakuten Saiben Series~
================================
Phoenix Wright obviously didn't
originate in America, nor did
any other video game you've
probably played. In Japan, the
Phoenix Wright series is known
as Gyakuten Saiben. This roughly
translates into "Turnabout
Court". If you were curious why
every case is named Turnabout
____ then that is the answer.

The GS series contains four
games so far. The first three in
the series were actually GBA
games, and the fourth one is for
the DS. If you are curious why
there is little touch screen
interaction it is because Capcom
decided to put the GBA Gyakuten
Saiben series on the DS in
America. Not that it's a bad
thing. The title was also
changed outside of Japan, from
"Turnabout Court" to "Phoenix
Wright Ace Attorney; Justice For
All".

Several minor things also
changed during the translation
from Japan to States side.
Gyakuten Saiben takes place in
Tokyo while Phoenix Wright is
speculated to take place in Los
Angeles. Although it is not
confirmed, several notions in
the game make it apparent that
Phoenix Wright takes place in
California. Also, some pictures
within the game were switched
from Japanese inscriptions into
English. However, some Japanese
writing can still be found if
you know where to look.

Remember one last thing-Japanese
law is different than America's
law. Don't be confused under the
"guilty until proven innocent"
ordeal, it's not a big deal.
Also, this game takes place in
2017. Hence the possibility of
these laws actually being true.

As a side note, I STILL have no
idea why the hell every picture
is in black and white. I guess
everyone's color blind in the
future or something.

================================
          ~2.Controls~
================================
The controls for Phoenix Wright
are pretty simple. You'll get
used to them quickly.

A button-Scroll through text
that characters are saying,
confirm option, look at details
of evidence and profiles B
button-Back out of a selection,
hold to skip through text
quickly X button-Push this when
highlighting evidence to present
it Y button-Hold this and yell
into the microphone when
presenting evidence (more fun
than just pressing the X button)

Control Pad-Scroll through all
selections L button-Press
statement (only in the
courtroom), pan screen
left/right (only during
Investigation when an area has
more than one screen. To see it
you must scroll to see the rest
by pressing L) R button-Brings
up the court record Start-Brings
up the menu to save your game

Note:Some of these controls are
only availble inside court, and
others only outside of it. Most
of them coincide, however.

================================
 ~3.Events In and Out of Court~
================================
Phoenix will have to do many
things inside and outside of the
courtroom in order to prove his
clients are innocent. Through
these events he will uncover the
truth, pick out who really did
the crime, gather evidence, and
meet many unusual characters.

----------------
Outside of Court
----------------
INVESTIGATION-This is what the
entire process outside of court
is. Phoenix will stroll around
different key areas in the city
in his investigation. Once you
have learned all the necessary
information and have retrieved
all the evidence possible, the
investigation will end and court
will begin (after the chance to
save your progress). There are
several different things you
will be able to do on your
investigations.

MOVE-Pretty self explainatory.
Phoenix will have to go to many
different locations on his
investigations. Select move to
bring up a list of places you
can visit. Note that many areas
branch off into different areas.
For example, pressing move will
bring up Area A and Area B.
However, you can only visit Area
C by moving in Area B. Don't
overlook that detail.

TALK-In many areas there will be
a person you are able to talk
to. Once you select this option,
several boxes will appear with
topics you can talk to the
person about. Once you talk to
them about said topic it will
have a red checkmark appear next
to it so you don't confuse
yourself. Many people,
especially key witnesses and
even the real killer, won't have
every topic possible to talk to
them about listed right away.
You will need to pry the options
out of them by either talking to
them about previous topics, or
get some dirt from other people
in the overworld.

Sometimes when you try talking
about a subject Psyche Locks
will appear. The subject will
then have a lock symbol next to
it. If you want to hear the
subject you must first use the
Magatama to break the Psyche
Locks.

PRESENT-If you are infront of a
person you can choose this to
examine the evidence you have
collected so far. From there you
can choose an item to show the
person you are talking to. If
the person tells you something
along the lines of "What is
that?", "I have no business with
that item" and so on then the
item in question isn't going to
get you anywhere with that
person. Some items when
presented will make the person
confess to secrets they have
been hiding. Other times they
will hand you more evidence, or
even allow you to ask them about
more topics. Don't freak out-
there's no penalty for wasting
someone's time. Present things
often if you are stuck as it may
unlock something new for you to
continue.

EXAMINE-In every area there is a
scene. Obviously. Many of the
areas you visit will have
something odd there. Sometimes
its an item that just doesn't
fit in with the rest of the
scenery, sometimes it isn't as
obvious and you will need to
look everything over. Once
again, if you are ever out of
options, return to areas you
have visited and examine every
detail you are capable of
looking at. You may just find a
vital piece of evidence or clue
that can help you along your
way.

PSYCHE LOCKS-Partway through
case 2 you will recieve the
Magatama, a mystical item that
will alert you when people are
trying to hide secrets from you.
You can easily tell this when
you ask a witness about a
subject, then the background
grows black and a ton of chains
and locks appear over the
witness. This indicates a Psyche
Lock sequence must take place
before you learn anything else
about the subject.

To start the Magatama Secret
sequence, present the Magatama
when you see the person have
Psyche Locks over them. The more
Psyche Locks that appear on the
subject, the harder it will be
to make them reveal their
secret. During the Magatama
Secret sequence, the person will
ask you questions such as "What
connects me to this scene", "Who
should you really be defending",
like that. You'll need to
present evidence to answer their
questions. Do so correctly and
you will move on to the next
questions, possibly destroying
one or more Psyche Locks along
the way. When you've unlocked
them all, half of your health
bar will be restored and you can
ask about the hidden secret
topic now. Remember, if you
present wrong evidence you will
lose 1/10th of your health bar.
Also, sometime you will need to
collect more evidence before you
can complete a Magatama
sequence. Don't always think you
MUST beat it on the first go,
because rarely that is ever
true.

---------------
Inside of Court
---------------
TESTIMONY-Whenever a witness is
called to the stand by the
prosecution, the witness will
recount the events specific to
the case in a testimony. Your
objective is to find parts of
the testimony that contradict
evidence you have or statements
already mentioned in the past.
You won't be able to object
here, so just pay attention
until the testimony is finished.

CROSS EXAMINATION-Phoenix, as a
defense attorney, will need to
cross examine the witnesses on
their testimonies after they
finish saying them. Your main
objective here is, of course, to
find the one mistake that the
witness places in their
testimony and expose their lies.
You can scroll through any line
of text said in the testimony,
forwards or backwards. Once you
find the spot where there is a
clear contradiction you will
need to present evidence
supporting your theory.

However, if you present the
wrong evidence or present it at
the wrong statement in the
testimony, the Judge will become
angered at your attempt to frame
the witness and penalize you. On
the top right corner of the DS
screen you should notice that
you have a health bar. More on
that in a lower paragraph.

PRESSING-On the top-left side of
the touch screen you will see a
"Press" button. During a
testimony you can press any and
all statements that the witness
says. After Phoenix yells "Hold
it!" he will question the
witness further on what they
just said. Sometimes you will
find contradictions right away
from pressing statements. This
will cause the witness to revise
that statement of the testimony.
Occasionally you will have to
make choices when pressing. The
available options appear on the
bottom screen. Usually it is
"Press further" and "Back off".

Pressing further can cause the
witness to reveal something that
will seriously benefit your
case, or completely shatter your
hopes and open mind the Judge
into coming closer to calling
the defendent Guilty. Pressing
statements will never deal you
penalties, however in a few rare
circumstances they actually
will. In these cases you will be
warned beforehand that you will
get penalized. Don't play with
fire if you can't afford to be
burned.

PRESENTING-The most important
part of your cross examination
is presenting the right evidence
to expose the lies thrown in the
witness' testimonies. Push R or
tap the Court Record button to
bring up the Court Record. Here
is where all the evidence and
important info for the case is
kept. Push the Profiles button
to see a bio on everybody
currently involved in the case.
When you select a piece of
evidence you wish to present,
highlight it and press the
Present button of push the X
button. Phoenix will yell his
famous "OBJECTION!" line, or in
some cases "TAKE THAT!". During
testimonies, you will know you
presented the right evidence if
the music stops playing. If it
continues, expect to be
penalized.

HEALTH BAR-New to Justice For
All is the replacement of the
simple five "!" marks with a
regular health bar. The health
bar is split into ten segments.
If you lose all of your health,
it's an instant game over when
you are in court. You can lose
health outside of court as well
through Magatama sequences. If
you lose all of your health
outside of court, nothing major
happens but you will be forced
to repeat the Magatama sequence
you failed. You can lose health
a variety of ways in court. If
you present wrong evidence, you
lose 2/10ths health.

Whenever you are asked to backup
a statement, presenting wrong
evidence will take off health as
well, usually between 1-3 pieces
of it. Worst of all, you can't
refill the bar normally. You
will restore five segments when
you complete a Magatama
sequence. Basically, don't screw
yourself in court. You're not
getting health back at any time
you are in court.

================================
         ~4.Characters~
================================
Justice For All has a wide
variety of wierd and wacky
characters, along with a few
(insane) killers. Several of
these characters you should
already know from playing the
first Phoenix Wright, and the
rest you will meet along the way
in your cases. Most of them have
an important background that
will usually get called to
attention in court, to keep them
in mind!

Phoenix Wright-The main
character and Ace Attorney
himself, Phoenix has earned his
status by clearing his clients
from seemingly impossible cases,
and defeating Edgeworth in
court, who was known to have a
perfect win streak up until he
met Wright. Phoenix also brought
down legendary prosecutor
Manfred von Karma, a complete
perfectionist in every sense of
the word. Phoenix has a decent
amount of friends, most of whom
refer to him by "Nick". Phoenix
generally believes in his client
all the way through the trial
and will go to the farthest
reachs in order to prove his
clients innocent.

Maya Fey-Maya is Mia's little
sister. She started to accompany
Phoenix on his cases soon after
Mia died in the first game. She
continues to help out Phoenix as
well in Justice for All, but for
the most part she's unable to do
so either because she's being
put on trial herself or has been
kidnapped. She's a really sweet
girl, though, and attempts to
put some humor into these cases.
Maya is also a spirit medium,
capable to channeling dead
spirits into her body
temporarily. She does this
occasionally to have Mia
converse with Phoenix.

Mia Fey-Mia was Phoenix's mentor
until she was brutally killed in
the first game. Since then she
has made appearences in Maya's
body when the case is near
impossible for Phoenix. She will
appear again quite often in
Justice For All to help you, but
this time she's going to be more
vague. Yeah, that helps a lot in
court. At leats she's a nice
woman for the most part.

Detective Dick Gumshoe-Making a
grand return from the first
game, Detective Gumshoe is back
again. His main purpose on the
police first is, obviously,
investigate the case. Gumshoe
isn't the smartest brick on the
block, though, often making
small errors in his work and
leaving small details out of
important descriptions. Despite
this he's an awesome character,
and usually is the first one to
speak in court, by giving the
breif overview of the case.
You'll grow to love Gumshoe if
you haven't already played the
first game.

Maggey Byrde-Maggey is your
client in the first case of the
game. She has been known most of
her life to have insanely bad
luck, and he current situation
adds to her reputation. This
police officer was dating
another police officer, Dustin
Prince, for several months. When
Dustin was mysteriously killed,
the blame for his death was
pinned on Maggey.

Richard Wellington-Richard is
the first witness in the first
case, and he will testify on how
he's positive that Maggey was
the one who killed Dustin
Prince. Richard is the typical
egoistic rich man if you
couldn't tell by the way he
dresses, and his blonde hair.
He's also got a scarf which he
chokes himself with when under
pressure. He has a knack for
convienently leaving out really
important details, making his
testimonies slightly easier to
break.

Dustin Prince-Dustin was dating
Maggey Byrde for several months
before being killed one
mysterious night. Like Maggey,
he was a police officer and was
apparently a big baseball
fanatic. His murderer was
suspected to be Maggey herself.

Winston Payne-Payne is once
again the opening case's
prosecutor. He's an old man and
easily isn't a good prosecutor.
Just listen to his girly
objection voice! Payne will
always have little to add to any
discussion, paving the way for
an easy first case.

The Judge-The Judge is still the
head of the court, and
ultimately decides if the
defendant will be innocent or
guilty. The Judge isn't too
bright, much like Gumshoe, and
his opinion is easily swayed by
threatening people or woman who
try flirting with him in court.
Despite that, and usually being
several steps behind the current
reasoning and explainations in
court, the Judge will just keep
the trial flowing smoothly until
the end.

Doctor Grey-He is the owner of
his own doctoring clinic. During
one medical procedure, fourteen
of his patients were killed
during a slight error. Grey
quickly blamed a nurse working
with him to save his own name.
Shortly after the incident, that
nurse was killed in a car
accident. Still trying to repair
his reputation, he wishes to
channel the spirit of his nurse
to clear his name. However, Grey
ends up getting killed while
having Maya channel the spirit.

Ini Miney-Ini is the sister of
Mimi Miney, the nurse who was
working with Doctor Grey on the
day of the accident. She is
totally spaced out constantly,
and if you do get her attention
she will, like, totally, like,
start like talking something
like this. There's something odd
about her personality though,
and that's something you will
have to figure out for yourself
in the case.

Mimi Miney-Mimi was the nurse
working with Doctor Grey during
the incident that killed
fourteen people. All the blame
was put on her and she escaped
the clinic with her car, but
soon was killed when she
crashed. Her spirit was
attempted to be channeled by
Maya by request of Doctor Grey.
Grey was killed during this
channeling.

Pearl Fey-Pearl is Maya's
younger cousin. She's a real
sweetheart, but is shy due to
her mother preventing her from
pretty much any contact with the
outside world. When Maya is
unable to aid Phoenix, Pearl
will take her place. Her spirit
channeling powers aren't as
strong as Maya's, but she will
still be able to occasionally
channel Mia from time to time.
Pearl is still a sweet partner
to have following you around.

Morgan Fey-Morgan is Pearl's
mother and Maya's aunt. She's an
incredibly strict person, and
hates how Maya is soon going to
be the new leader of the Kurain
Village. Morgan has no spiritual
abilities at all, though, but
she does know as much about
spirit channeling as Maya does.

Franziska von Karma-Phoenix
battled Manfred von Karma in
case 4 in the first game, and
smoked him into the ground. Now
his daughter Franziska is out
for revenge. She has been a
prosecutor since the young age
of 13 and has been living in
Germany most of her life. Like
her father, she is also a total
perfectionist and has a perfect
win record in court, at least
until she faces off against
Phoenix.

Russell Berry-Russell is the
ringmaster of the Berry Big
Circus. He has a young daughter,
Regina, who has lived in the
circus her entire life. Russell
also took in Acro and Bat when
they were young, abondoned by
their parents. His goal was to
make the circus seem like a big
family. After a conversation
with Max Galactica, Russel was
killed and his body was stuffed
awkwardly into a box. Max was
the alleged killer.

Max Galactica-Max is a famous
magician in the Berry Big
Circus. He is totally into his
persona, constantly showing off
his magic tricks to everyone in
the circus. He's actually a
really emotional guy. He also
won an award at the Magician's
Grand Prix. He's been a magician
for several years. After a
conversation with Russel Berry
one night, Russel was killed.
His murder was pinned on Max.
Max's real name, Billy Bob
Johns, refers to his origin in
the countryside. He is also
crazy in love with Regina.

Regina Berry-This 16 year old is
the lion tamer in the Berry Big
Circus, and is the daughter of
Russel Berry. Because of her
age, several men are in love
with her. Due to a bet she made
with Bat, her lion Leon
accidentally chomped on Bat,
sending him into a coma. Regina,
who has been raised with the
circus her entire life, doesn't
really understand why he won't
wake up. She has a similar
cluelessness to most things
outside of the circus just like
Pearl. Although most people like
and respect her, Acro has a
serious hatred for Regina.

Moe the Clown-Moe is the clown
for the Berry Big Circus. He
fitfully laughs at his own jokes
(something NO comedian should
ever do, little protip there),
and tries packing humor into
almost every other statement he
makes. His full name is Moe
Lawrence Curls, a blatant
refrence to the three stooges.
Moe has lived with the circus
for most of his life, and was
also a witness to the incident
that put Bat into a coma several
months ago.

Ben and Trilo-Ben is a
ventriloquist, and Trilo is his
puppet. An odd character, Ben
does very little talking,
letting all of his words come
out of Trilo's mouth. Trilo is
mean to most people in the
circus with the exception of
Regina who he's in love with (or
is it Ben that's in love with
her...?). Either way, you rarely
see Ben without Trilo, and Ben
rarely speaks his own mind.

Acro-Acro is a former acrobat at
the Berry Big Circus. At the
time you meet him he will be in
a wheelchair, paralyzed for the
most part. He has a deep hatred
of Regina, due to the bet she
made with Bat a while back. Acro
didn't know Regina thought it
was nothing serious, so when he
saw her shove off the fact his
brother was in a coma, Acro grew
to hate Regina. This soon led to
the events of the third case.
Acro was taken in by Russel
Berry when he was a kid, and
looks to him as a father.

Bat-Bat is Acro's younger
brother. He used to be part of
the acrobat act in the Berry Big
Circus, but has been in a coma
for several months due to an
accident with Regina's lion. He
becomes a critical character
within the third case, despite
being hospitalized.

Matt Engarde-Your client in the
final case. He's charged with
murdering Juan Corrida. Matt is
a mostly independant guy,
contacting his managers
constantly for answers to pretty
much anything. He doesn't really
care what happens to himself.
However, the real Matt Engarde
is a cunning tactician that
places his faith in no one.
You'll understand his dual
personality as you play the
case. Matt plays the Nickel
Samurai, which was made soon
after the Steel Samurai was
cancelled.

Juan Corrida-Juan plays as the
Jammin' Ninja, a show aimed for
kids much like the Nickel
Samurai. Apparently, Juan and
Matt were rivals at almost
everything they did involving
each other. They did their best
to outdo the other. Juan was
supposedly killed by Matt
Engarde, perhaps out of jelousy.

Will Powers-Will played as the
former Steel Samurai, but is
still an actor at heart. He
helps Phoenix with general
information through the fourth
case and testifies against Matt
Engarde, backing up the claim he
killed Juan Corrida.

Adrian Andrews-Adrian is Matt
Engarde's manager. She entered
the entertainment business at a
similar time Celeste Inpax did,
and she soon became Adrain's
mentor. Celeste was dumped by
Juan Corrida, and unable to ease
herself she committed suicide.
Adrain was so distraught at her
mentor killing herself that she
almost committed suicide as
well. She isn't big with idle
talk, only speaking important
things and commenting on
critical subjects.

Shelly de Killer-Shelly is a
professional assassin. There
isn't much known about this man
because his face is rarely seen.
His primary mode of
communication is relying on a
radio transciever. He also
leaves cards with a seashell on
it near his victims.

Miles Edgeworth-After a yearlong
hiatus from being a prosecutor,
Miles Edgeworth makes a well
welcomed return (for the fans at
least) in the final case. He
isn't as ruthless as he was
before, and actually helps out
Phoenix during the investigation
scenes. He's still formidable in
court, so watch out for him
there.

================================
    ~5.Episode One-The Lost
    Turnabout~
================================
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 1-1
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
The introduction to this case
start with Phoenix seemingly
running from something, and his
adversary yelling that he can't
escape. Phoenix appears on a
cliff, with a huge shadow of the
Judge coming closer and closer.
The Judge lifts his gavel and
slams it on Phoenix...

--------------------------------
Date-September 8, 9:08 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
The same eerie organ music that
was playing during Phoenix's
dream is playing again-this time
on Phoenix's phone. He thinks
his phone caused his nightmare.
He answers the phone, but the
other person already hung up.
Then some crazy guy around the
corner mutters that he "found
it", then whacks Phoenix on the
head with a fire extinguisher.
That's one creepy guy. And a
stupid looking one.

Several minutes later, Phoenix
recovers (and those guards three
feet away saw nothing?) and is
staring at a young girl. Phoenix
is clueless who this girl is,
and why she is so cheerful.
You'll find out her name is
Maggey Byrde from the Court
Record. She retells her story on
how you decided to take on her
case not long ago. Phoenix then
tries to remember who he is and
fails. Horribly. He then
concludes he has amnesia
(no...really?), he must be a
defense attorney, and that he
has to prove whoever that girl
was not guilty.

--------------------------------
Date-September 8, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Now court is in session for the
trial of Maggey Byrde.
Prosecutor Payne is back in
action for the first case. Not
that it matters since he isn't a
very interesting prosecutor.
From here on I will put the
answers you should respond the
questions in quotations, making
them easier to see. The Judge
will ask if you are ready.
Answer "Yes" since you should
be. The Judge will retell that
the defendant is a member of the
police force, so this trial will
be quick and swift.

Payne will begin now begin by
saying that the defendant is
accused of killing her lover. To
make matters worse, he was also
a police officer. Maggey is
irritated she's being called a
killer even though she says she
didn't kill her lover, Dustin.
Payne will call Detective Dick
Gumshoe to the stand now.

Gumshoe is the detective in
charge of homicides and other
various crimes. He isn't feeling
so well since Maggey looked up
to him as a trainee, so Gumshoe
just feels awkward to be trying
to prove someone so loyal guilty
of murder. Payne will ask
Gumshoe to describe the details
of the murder.

The murder happened near the
police headquarters in Expose
Park. The victim was one of the
police officers, Dustin Prince.
Dustin was shoved off a ledge on
the top of a balcony. Despite
being a short fall, the landing
snapped his neck and injured
most of his body. The injury was
so severe that he died soon
after. Phoenix mutters he didn't
get a copy of the autopsy
report. Actually, you have one.
It's in the Court Record. Dustin
died a 6:28 PM from his broken
neck. Gumshoe comments that when
Dustin hit the ground the impact
destroyed his watch, stopping
it. The time or death was easy
to document from this. The
autopsy results also backed up
the evidence.

Payne also submits the picture
where Dustin is lying on the
ground dead. CRIME PHOTO 1 will
be added to the Court Record. In
the Court Record you can look at
this picture again at any time,
so feel free to do so if you
need to. The Judge also mentions
that a critical piece of
evidence was found under the
victim's body. Of course, he
doesn't remember what it was.
Maggey will help you through
this if you haven't played the
original Phoenix Wright. To open
up the Court Record either press
the R button of tap the Court
Record button on the top-right
corner of the touch screen. The
Judge wants to make sure you
know what item you have in the
Court Record that was recieved
earlier today. Choose "Glasses",
the only other critical item in
the Court Record at the moment.

Gumshoe explains that the victim
grabbed the criminal's glasses
as he was being shoved off of
the balcony. He held onto them
as he fell onto the ground,
where they promptly shattered.
Maggey explains to Phoenix that
the glasses found at the crime
scene weren't her's. If you look
at the glasses Maggey is wearing
right now, despite it being a
spare pair, they look totally
different. Payne continues to
say that he has decisive
evidence. The Judge orders
Gumshoe to testify on the
evidence.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Decisive
Evidence~
--------------------------------
-There's something even more
 incriminating than the glasses
 under the
victim's body, sir.

-During his date, the victim was
 pushed from the bench area.

-But he managed to write the
 culprit's name on the ground
 where he landed.

-I don't like saying it, but it
 was clearly the defendant's
 name "Maggie",
sir.

-With this piece of evidence and
 the glasses, it's hard to say
 she's not
the culprit.

Well, this looks troubling.
Before you can cross examine,
Payne submits the picture where
Dustin is writing Maggey's name
into the sand. CRIME PHOTO 2
will be added to the Court
Record. Maggey quickly explains
how you are supposed to cross
examine witness's. You need to
press the statements of the
witness testifying for more
clues on their testimony.
Eventually you will hit a
contradiction, where a piece of
evidence or another statement in
the testimony disagrees with the
statement you are looking at. At
such a time you want to present
evidence proving the
contradiction. You must expose
their lies for all their worth!

If you reach the end of the
testimony, Maggey will ask you
if you're going to pull off that
special move. Choose "Enlighten
me" to learn more. There's a new
addition to contradicting in
Justice For All. You can now
present profiles if needed. Now,
when cross examining you can
choose to press a statement to
get the witness to reveal more
details about it. This may lead
to them revealing a severe
contradiction, changing or
adding a line of testimony too.
This time around the
contradiction is right in the
open. At Gumshoe's fourth
statement he talks about how the
defendant's name "Maggie" was
written into the sand. Yeah, if
you've been paying any attention
you should know that her name is
spelled "Maggey", not "Maggie".
This actually catches so many
people off since not many
realise you can present
profiles. Present Maggey Byrde's
profile here.

Phoenix explains that the name
in the sand isn't the same name
as the defendant due to a
spelling error. Ohhh, blatant
contradiction. The Judge will
ask Gumshoe to revise his
testimony in light of this
error.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Dustin and
Maggey~
--------------------------------
-Officer Prince and Officer
 Byrde had been going out for
 about half a year.

-It sounded like they were even
 talking about marriage.

-The day of the incident just
 happened to be the victim's
 birthday, sir.

-Maggey...I mean, Officer Byrde,
 had gotten Officer Prince a
 present.

-It was something she had gotten
 over 2 months ago.

-I should know, 'cause she came
 to me to ask what she should
 get for him.

There's no flat out
contradiction right now, so you
must start pressing statement.
Press by hitting the "press"
button or tapping L. Start by
pressing the fifth statement,
about how Gumshoe knows she got
something for Prince two months
ago. Gumshoe will reveal that
Maggey got him a baseball glove.
Officer Prince was a huge
baseball fan. Choose to "Press
further" when asked. It turns
out this glove was custom made.
Maggey ordered the glove over
two months ago. The Judge will
agree with Payne that this line
of questioning seems rather
pointless.

Choose "Of course it's
relevant". Phoenix thinks that
glove is the key to the whole
case. Gumshoe states that he
happens to have the glove with
him right here, right now. The
BASEBALL GLOVE will be added to
the Court Record. The glove is
yellow since Dustin loved that
color. Maggey also says there
was another reason she had to
custom order the glove. The
Judge now questions if the
victim really wrote the name
into the sand or not. Gumshoe
will be asked to testify more
into this matter.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Writing on
the Ground~
--------------------------------
-We first looked into the
 handwriting.

-Unfortunately, we couldn't
 confirm that it was the
 victim's handwriting.

-Next, we checked the victim's
 pointer finger.

-We found that there was sand
 trapped under the victim's
 fingernail.

-There were also scratches on
 the skin that were caused by
 him writing on
the ground.

-From this, we could confirm
 that the victim wrote this name
 with his
right hand.

You won't get much information
from pressing. If you press the
sixth and final statement,
Phoenix thinks some evidence can
contradict that statement.
Maggey then says that something
about the present might help.
That's all the help you need,
since the two go together well.
Present the Baseball Glove at
the last statement. There's two
things special about the glove.
Firstly, it's real yellow. Yeah.
Second, the glove was made for a
left-handed person.

Phoenix will ask again which
hand the victim used to write
Maggey's name into the sand. The
right hand. But there's a
problem there. Dustin was left
handed. Phoenix claims that the
victim would not have been able
to write that neatly with his
right hand, especially since
it's not his dominant hand and
he was so close to death.
Thusly, someone else must have
written the name.

The Judge also agrees with your
reasoning. It seems Maggey is
off the hook, but Payne objects
before the decision is made. It
turns out the prosecution has
another witness. Payne states
that the witness saw the moment
the victim was pushed to his
death, and caught the face of
the culprit. The Judge will call
a recess in spite of recent
events. Save the game when
prompted.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 1-2
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-September 8, 11:43 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Phoenix explains to Maggey that
he apparently has amnesia. She
suggests having her kick Phoenix
in the head to boost his memory,
but that seems a little too
violent. She also explains she
tries to stick her business into
everyone else's problems.
Anyways, Phoenix asks Maggey to
explain several details to him.
First, Phoenix confirms his
name. Heh. Maggey will gladly
give back Phoenix's business
card. The number on the back is
Phoenix's cell phone number.
PHOENIX'S BUSINESS CARD will be
added to the Court Record.

Phoenix then asks for any other
important information. She
mentions an incident with a cell
phone. She goes back over the
details. On the day of the
crime, just before 6 PM, she
picked up a lost cell phone
whilst on a walk with Dustin.
You will here the cell phone.
Sounds a bit familar, doesn't
it? Like, say, Phoenix's cell
phone? The phone rang and Maggey
answered it. The person on the
other end lost the phone. Maggey
says that they should meet up.
She gives her name over the
phone.

They agreed to meet at 6 PM, but
the mysterious person never
showed up. The phone was given
to you yesterday. Phoenix isn't
sure if this is important or not
to the case. Just then, someone
bursts into the lobby screaming
at the top of their lungs. Haha,
it's just Maya, your trusty
companion from the previous
game. She's the sister of Mia
Fey, your old mentor in case you
forgot. Phoenix doesn't reconize
her, but luckily Maggey greets
her by her name for you. Maya
says that she has ultra-super
important evidence. Phoenix
wanted her to bring a list of
people. There's about 20 names
on the list with their phone
numbers written down. She goes
on to say that a there is a
group of con artists that the
police are currently
investigating. She thinks these
people are members of that
group. NAMES LIST will be added
to the Court Record.

These numbers were found in the
phone that Maggey found. Before
much else can occur, court is
back in session.

--------------------------------
Date-September 8, 11:54 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Before Payne brings in the next
witness, he warns the Judge that
he has an egoistic nature that
may rub off onto people the
wrong way. He says the witness
was just a random passerby in
the park on the day of the
murder. Hmm. This guy looks just
like the wierd guy shown in the
opening cutscene. Maybe, maybe
not. This guy then starts
ranting about how many
universities he's attended and
how Payne's offending him by not
bringing the court's attention
to him properly. He says he is
Richard Wellington, just a
"drifter", insulting Payne
clearly. He orders Wellington to
testify what he was doing in the
park on the day of the murder.

--------------------------------
~Wellington's Testimony-What I
Saw That Day~
--------------------------------
-I was at the park all
 afternoon, deep in thought
 about my life situation.

-I don't remember the time all
 that well, but I do believe it
 was past 6
PM.

-All of a sudden, a police
 officer falls from above, right
 infront of my
eyes.

-Without a thought, I looked up,
 and there I met the eyes of a
 charming,
young lady.

-Of course I remember her sweet
 face. It was that of the pretty
 defendant
there.

-The only thing I saw was the
 banana that fell with the
 police officer.

Hmm. The only statement that
seems odd would be the last one,
about the falling banana. It
could be the baseball glove we
recieved earlier, since it DOES
resemble a group of bananas.
Press him at this statement. He
is certain he saw something
resemble bananas fall down the
balcony. Now it should be
obvious to present the Baseball
Glove at this statement.
Wellington will confirm that
those are the bananas, but
Phoenix will put out that it was
a baseball glove, not bananas.

Wellington freaks out for a
moment, then Phoenix will need
to state something. Choose "has
bad eyesight". Wellington states
that his eyesight isn't
completely perfect, and that he
isn't wearing any glasses today.
He says the he lost his glasses
recently. He was planning on
getting new ones soon, though.
Phoenix pokes Wellington even
more and clearly shows that the
witness wasn't wearing any
glasses when he saw the murder.
Thusly, the woman he saw at the
crime scene easily may not have
been the defendant. The Judge
will ask for a new testimony to
describe what happened soon
after the incident.

--------------------------------
~Wellington's Testimony-What
Happened Next~
--------------------------------
-The girl on the upper path ran
 away as soon as she realized I
 was there.

-After that, I immediately
 called the police station to
 report the crime.

-It must have been 6:45 PM when
 I made the call.

-They must have a lot of free
 time on their hands since they
 showed up
within 10 minutes.

Well, the only way to get any
contradictory information from
this is to start pressing. Press
his second statement about how
he called the police after
seeing the incident. He says
that there may have been about a
minute between when he saw the
incident and called the police,
but that's it. Now press the
third statement. He says he
knows the time because Gumshoe
told him. Hmm. Something just
isn't right. The autopsy report
says Dustin was killed at 6:28
PM, and Wellington didn't call
for a full 17 minutes. That
isn't "immediately" by any
standards. Present Dustin's
Autopsy Report at the second
statement.

The questioning of this gap
makes Wellington panic. Payne
tries interfering but to no
avail. Something is really wrong
with the 17 minute gap. He says
that he was searching for a
telephone booth during the 17
minute gap. He then goes on to
say that he lost his cell phone.
Phoenix gets an idea, and Maya
agrees that perhaps the phone
Maggey found belongs to
Wellington. Choose to "Question
further".

When asked, Wellington will whip
out his phone, claiming he has
found it. The Judge will then
ask if you have any other
questions. Choose "There is
something..." since there must
be more to this explaination. He
says that there would be no
reason at all to search for a
phone booth. Payne will demand
proof that there was no need to
search for a phone booth.
Present Crime Photo 1. If you
inspect it, there was a phone
booth just severeal feet from
Dustin's body!

It's true. All Wellington needed
to do was take a few steps and
he would have been in a phone
booth. Not exactly 17 minutes
worth of searching to me. Since
the 17 minute gap is still in
play, there's enough reason to
claim this testimony fraudulous.
Maya thinks that the phone you
have really is his. But did he
kill Dustin just to get his
phone back? If Wellington wasn't
looking for his cell phone
during the time gap, what was he
looking for? Choose "Yes, I have
an idea" when asked if you can
explain this time gap. So, what
piece of evidence shows that the
witness didn't call the police
right away?

It doesn't seem very obvious,
and you'd probably figure it out
eventually with a little
guessing (and a lot of lost
health), but present the
Glasses. Phoenix demands to know
if those were Wellington's
glasses or not. He spills it,
stammering where you found them.
These glasses are in fact his.
They were found crushed under
the victim's body. So, how did
they get to be there, exactly?
As Dustin fell, he grabbed onto
Wellington's glasses. He knew
that Wellington would have to
search for them, and what he
didn't realize was that they
were under Dustin's body the
entire time. That's why it took
so long for him to make the
phone call.

The Judge will ask if you are
implying that Wellington is the
real murderer. Um, duh? Who else
could it be at this point? Turns
out the cell phone was the key
to this case the whole time.
Payne still thinks your
accusations are wild. Wellington
will get a chance to explain why
he can't be the murderer. He
will ask about the name written,
the one spelled out "Maggie".
All Wellington does is imply
that the real murderer
personally wrote out the
victim's name. Then, wouldn't
the real criminal have to know
the defendant? Could there be a
way he knew her name before the
trial? Answer "There was a way".
You will need to present
evidence showing Wellington knew
Maggey's name before the trial.
Present the Cell Phone.

Phoenix will restate that
Wellington lost his phone. In
order to find it, Phoenix
guesses he called the cell phone
to find out who had it. He
breaks down, wondering how you
knew this. There must be a
connection between the lost cell
phone and this murder. The cell
phone conversation will replay,
showing that whoever called
asked for Maggey's name, and she
gave it away. Through this phone
conversation Wellington must
have heard Maggey's name. The
big mistake he made was that it
was spelled Maggey, not Maggie.
This error could only be made if
the name was heard!

However, we still don't know
what Wellington's motive is. He
wouldn't kill someone without a
motive. To prove he had a
motive, present the Names List
of the people in the con
artist's group. This list of
numbers was stored in the cell
phone's memory. The very phone
Maggey picked up. Why were these
numbers on Wellington's phone?
Now you will be asked why he has
the numbers of all these con
artists on his phone. Answer
that he is "a member of that
group." All of his friends are
stored on his phone. That's why
he had to kill, to hide these
numbers. Payne will come in and
ask why, if all Wellington had
to do was meet Maggey and pick
up the phone, did he need to
kill Dustin? Something must not
have agreed with him. You'll be
asked to present what didn't
agree with him.

Present Dustin Prince's profile.
Around the time of the murder,
Dustin and Maggey were walking
through the park on their date.
With no time to change, Dustin
was still in uniform. Wellington
didn't know they were going out
so he paniced. Wellington then
spazes out of control with
laughter. Whose to say the cell
phone was really his to begin
with? He states again that he
found his phone, so why would
the one you hold be his? Perhaps
there's something you
overlooked. Choose "Fingerprints
on the phone?" Maya will remind
you that you wiped the prints
off when you got the phone from
Maggey.

Wellington regains composure
thinking he may be off the hook.
He then says the numbers on his
phone somehow disappeared. Sure
they did. Phoenix demands to
know where he found the cell
phone. He then completely
remembers everything before the
trial. You'll see the opening
cutscene again breifly, and
Phoenix will remember who hit
him with the fire extinguisher.
Unless you can prove who the
phone belongs to, and fast, then
it's all over. You better "Raise
an objection". Phoenix is
confident that he will be able
to prove everything. Your health
bar will take a big hit if you
get this wrong so don't screw
up! Present the Wellington
killer-Phoenix's Business Card.

You will trade cards with the
Judge for whatever reason.
JUDGE'S BUSINESS CARD will be
added to the Court Record. There
is something odd about your
card. State "the back of the
card." Phoenix will ask Maya to
call the number on the back of
Phoenix's business card. Maya
makes the call and... the Steel
Samurai theme plays. In
Wellington's pocket. How did
Wellington end up with Phoenix's
phone, then? As it turns out,
when Wellington went to retrieve
his phone from an unconcious
Phoenix, he took the wrong one.
Wellington chokes himself
unconcious on the spot. Good job
on the Not Guilty verdict!

--------------------------------
Date-September 8, 2:16 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 1
--------------------------------
Looks like Maggey is happy that
you proved her innocent. Maggey
can't help but feel Dustin's
death was her fault. She says
that she's been shunned with a
torrent of bad luck her entire
life, and now look at what's
happened here. She also thinks
that he bad luck latched onto
anyone around her. She says
she's gonna quit being a police
officer to start a new life
somewhere. She's sure she will
have better luck the next time
you see her. After a heartfelt
reunion with Maya, the case
comes to a close. Save the game
and Episode 2 will be unlocked.

================================
    ~6.Episode Two-Reunion, and
    Turnabout~
================================
The intro cutscene shows a car
speeding on the highway, and
someone talking about being
drugged by someone they hate.
Soon the car veers off the road
and crashes, erupting into
flames. The woman says she is
out for revenge. The scene now
cuts to Phoenix and Maya
talking, one behind a wall. It
appears to be the detention
center. How the hell did Maya
end up there again? Maya is
saying that she killed someone,
and Phoenix is trying to get her
to relax.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 2-1
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-June 16, 3:34 PM Location-
Wright & Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Now we cut back into the Law
Offices. A man is there waiting
for you, fumbling around with
his glasses. He talks about how
the rain is depresing. He
introduces himself as Dr. Turner
Grey, a surgeon. He talks about
an incident recently where
fourteen people at the Grey
Clinic were killed in a
malpractice.

Grey doesn't want to take
responsibility, so he blames the
nurse in charge right away. He
says it was her that screwed up
the medications, which is what
killed all of the people. What's
worse, the nurse was killed
before she had the chance to
admit to her wrongdoing. She
died in a car accident, the same
one form the intro. This crash
occured about a year ago. Rumors
have been put out stating that
Grey was the cause of the crash,
perhaps to his the real person
responsible for the malpractice.

Grey comes back and asks why
he'd want to kill the nurse.
What's odd is that this case is
a year old, so why bring it up
now? Grey says that his clinic
isn't seeing as many patients
nowadays due to this incident,
so he wants to clear his name.
He wants you to prove him
innocent. He brings up Maya and
knows that she is a spirit
medium. Grey has already set up
an appointment with Maya to
channel the spirit of the dead
nurse. Also of note is that this
will be Maya's first real
channeling, and the only
condition she has to do this is
that Phoenix is there with her.
Phoenix heads with Grey to
Maya's hometown.

-----------------------
Date-June 19, 1:25 PM
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Hmm. Seems like an old fashioned
kind of place, nice and
peaceful. A young girl spots you
as you enter, then runs off.
Maya then tries chasing after
her but ends up running into
Phoenix. Maya's training has
been going well recently, and
now you are able to talk with
her.

Talk to Maya about "Today's
channeling" first. Maya confirms
that she knows all of the
details behind this case right
now. She's pretty sure that Grey
is innocent, but we'll have to
find out. Talk about "Kurain
Village" now. Maya asays most of
the people who work here are
spirit mediums, as well as most
of her ancestors. Only the woman
here are mediums. The men work
in another place outside of the
village. Now ask about "The girl
earlier". Maya says she is Pearl
Fey, her cousin. Like Maya,
Pearl is also a spirit medium.
She ran away since her mother
(Maya's aunt) drilled into her
head to run away from suspicious
people. Pearl isn't allowed to
leave town, so she doesn't know
much outside of the village.
Maya will state that the
channeling will start soon, so
you better hurry. Move to the
Meditation Room.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Dr. Grey
right away. He's still ranting
on about the weather when you
first talk to him. He was given
a map to this place, and passes
a copy to you. GUIDEMAP (FEY
MANOR) will be added to the
Court Record. You can talk to
Grey now. Ask him about "Today's
channeling". Phoenix will ask
what he's going to do when the
spirit has been called. He
intends on having her sign a
confession that the car incident
and the malpractice were all her
fault. Yeah, last time a spirit
medium was called to answer a
case bad things happened.

Also ask about "Maya". He heard
about her from a girl studying
in college. That girl showed him
the village. Maya is also a
daughter of the master of the
village. Maya's aunt is just
behind the door, so we should go
meet her. Move to the Channeling
Chamber.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Channeling Chamber
--------------------------------
Fancy room. A crazy old woman
with a huge afro will demand to
know who you are. She's heard a
lot about Phoenix from "Mystic"
Maya. She introduces herself as
her aunt, Morgan Fey. She thinks
that you ask to much of her in
your duties as a lawyer. She
seems to disapprove of it. Talk
about "Maya" now. She's earned
the Mystic title because she is
the only one with the blood of
the master running through her.
She's the last of the rightful
heirs to the Kurain Channeling.
Morgan is merely a member of the
branch family. Members there
can't become the master. She
hints at the fact she has no
spiritual ability.

Now ask about "Today's
channeling". She thinks the
death of someone in a car
accident will be easier to
channel. The channeling will
occur right here in this room.
Talk about the "Channeling
Chamber" next. She won't allow
you to observe the channeling,
as that's only allowed for the
medium and the client. She also
mentions that the door is
securely locked to prevent
anything from going wrong. She
also brings up the subject of
Pearl. She requests that you
don't speak to her at all.
There's nothing left here. Head
to the Meditation Room, then
move to the Winding Way.

-------------------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
There's nothing much in this
room for now. There's a nice
garden, an incinerator, and a
glass urn containing something.
You'll figure out why most of
these are important later. Move
to the Side Room now.

-----------------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
Someone is sleeping in one of
the beds on the ground. There's
nothing you can do here, so
again head back to the Winding
Way.

-------------------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
As soon as you step out someone
will demand that you answer some
questions. It turns out to be
Lotta Hart, the eccentric
photographer from the fourth
case in the previous game.
Answer "Lotta Hart" when you
stammer for her name. She's
still a paranormal photographer,
oddly enough. Thought she gave
up that dream a while back. She
says that the channeling is
about to be started. She says
you better hurry to the
Mediation Room. Head there now.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
Morgan tells Maya and Dr. Grey
to enter the Channeling Chamber.
Maya says that she has the key
to the chamer. Morgan says that
the key is the only one of it's
kind. Well, while we wait for
the channeling to be over,
Morgan invites Phoenix to relax
over some food. Lotta becomes
angry that she can't get any
photos of the channeling, but
Morgan just shoves her
complaints off.

A few minutes will pass and you
will hear a loud bang. As soon
as you realise what it is,
another bang goes off. You will
question what to do in this
situation. Choose "Break into
the Chamber". Obviously there
isn't much of a choice, since
the only key is with Maya. After
several slams you end up in the
Channeling Chamber.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Channeling Chamber
--------------------------------
That's not good. Dr. Grey is
lying in a bloody pool in the
corner of the room. Lotta takes
several photos of this scene,
then the camera pans over to
Maya who doesn't look like
herself right now. She mutters
that she was murdered, and that
Dr. Grey killed her so she
killed him back. Morgan
interferes and orders you to
leave and alert the police.
Maya's screwed now.

-----------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Phoenix's cell phone doesn't get
any reception down in the
village, but he is lucky enough
to have a phone booth built
convienently nearby. He phones
the police and they are on their
way. What an odd case this is
turning out to be. Talk to Lotta
about "What you witnessed". She
thinks that it wasn't Maya that
pulled the trigger, instead it
was the person that was
channeled in her body. Ask about
"Dr. Grey" now. She doesn't know
much about him, but he has a bad
reputation. Although skilled at
surgery, he's got a bad
attitude. He was a tough person
to work with. Now move back to
the Meditation Room.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
You'll meet up with Morgan
again. She seems to be quite
calm. She tells you that
although the channeling is
complete, Maya is still
unconcious. Out of the blue pops
in Detective Gumshoe, here to
cheer us all up. How convienent
for him to be in this area at
the time of the police call. He
leaves to investigate the crime
scene. The only thing you can do
now is talk to other people
hoping for some clues. Head back
to Kurain Village.

-----------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Lotta is panicing, hoping she
isn't next to be killed. Talk to
her about "Any ideas" now. She
brings back up the fact that she
took two pictures when you were
in the Channeling Chamber. She
leaves to go back to the Chamber
to get more photos. Head back to
the Side Room now.

-----------------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
As soon as you enter the room
you'll notice the person in the
bed wakes up and makes her way
over to you. She mentions about
the time of the channeling and
if it's going to happen soon.
Phoenix tells her a murder just
happened and she...totally
doesn't know what that is.
Oookay. Seems like a total
druggie or someone with really
bad memory. She introduces
herself as Ini Miney. She's
studying parapsychology, the
study of these mystical
spiritual things. Talk to her
about "Ini Miney". She says that
she was the one who told Dr.
Grey about this place. He asked
her if she knew a good spirit
medium, and she told him about
Maya. She was taking a nap here
since she wasn't feeling well.
She's allergic to sesame seeds,
so after feeling ill after lunch
she took a nap.

Now ask her about "What
happened". Since she's been
sleeping here since lunch she
has no idea about the murder
that just took place. Now talk
about "The victim". Ini stammers
when asked if she knew Dr. Grey
and hurredly replies she
doesn't. It seems that she's
trying to hide something. Head
back to Winding Way.

-------------------------------
Date-June 19
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
When you set foot into Winding
Way this time you will meet up
with Pearl. She's not
responsive, but Phoenix will
notice she is holding a key.
Talk to her about "Pearl". She
will get a surprised look and
then run off, having Phoenix
confused that it was about his
hair rather than something else.
Nonetheless we need to find her
elsewhere. Head back into the
Channeling Chamber.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Channeling Chamber
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will appear and yell at
Phoenix to not tamper with
anything in the room. He will
let you ask him a few questions,
however. Talk to him about
"Maya". He grimly says that with
the way the case looks right now
she is the only person who could
have committed the crime. He
says you can't see Maya right
now, either. Now ask about the
"Cause of death". Dr. Grey was
shot in the forehead, as well as
stabbed in the chest with a
knife. After being stabbed, the
final blow was from the gun
again.

Well, Gumshoe won't disperse any
more information. Don't know why
you need to shoot someone twice
and stab them, but I guess the
killer wanted to ensure Grey was
brutally killed. Head back into
the Meditatio Room.

--------------------------------
Date-June 19 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Morgan
again here. She is talking to
Ini at the moment, and then
Gumshoe will step into the
conversation. He says that the
investigation won't be done for
a while. There's nothing else
you can do for now so everyone
will just spend the night at the
manor. What a bizzare day. Maya
was arrested by the police for
the second time, and Phoenix is
in deep water.

You'll awake back in this room
June 20, 8:02 AM. You will head
down to the detention center
right away.

--------------------------------
Date-June 20, 10:34 AM Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Well, Maya is back in the
detention center. There's not
much she can really do to help
you through this case. Phoenix
and her will talk a bit, the
same conversation from the intro
to the case. Talk to Maya about
"Channeling". She says that her
mother is the master of the
Kurain school for now. Since the
title is passed form mother to
daughter, she imagines that she
will soon be the new master.

Now ask about "What happened".
Maya doesn't remember too much.
She sat down and began the
channeling. That was the last
thing she remembers. Once the
spirit is in her body, she loses
consciousness. When she woke up
there was blood all over her
clothes. She does remember
having a dream, though. Talk to
her about the "Dream" now. She
remembers being dead and buried
into the ground. She couldn't
move and was suffocating.
Phoenix orders her to prepare
the documents to let him be her
attorney. Maya says that if your
going to be helping her you
should have her magical charm.
The MAGATAMA will be put into
the Court Record. You need to
give it to Pearl to fill it with
energy. Head to Wright & Co. Law
Offices first, though.

--------------------------------
Date-June 20 Location-Wright &
Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Phoenix will search for a
newspaper that Dr. Grey brought
the other day. NEWSPAPER
CLIPPING 1 will be added to the
Court Record. Now get back to
Kurain Village, specifically the
Side Room.

-----------------------------
Date-June 20
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
You will meet up with Ini right
away. She is
very...uncoperative. Or just
really, really stupid. Talk to
her about "Ini Miney" as if you
are actually going to get
something out of it. She is
still here at the manor because
there is so much for her to be
studying. Ask about "What
happened" now. She doesn't
respond at all, probably since
she doesn't have a grip on what
is happening. Now ask about "The
victim". She will stammer and
say she doesn't know about Dr.
Grey.

You can examine the room now. At
the back end of the room is a
nice alter built for some
purpose. Left of the alter is a
wooden bear figurine. It's just
a souvenir. Now examine the box
infront of her bed. Phoenix will
imply that the box wasn't here
yesterday, remember? At the
bottom of the chest are some
spiritual clothes, but nothing
major. Head into the Channeling
Chamber now.

--------------------------------
Date-June 20 Location-Fey Manor;
Channeling Chamber
--------------------------------
Gumshoe isn't here, so he must
be swamped with other work
involving this case at the
moment. Morgan is here, though.
She says that Pearl and her were
deeply sorry and shocked at the
events that have transpired here
and hope for Maya's safety. Ask
Morgan about "What happened". As
soon as you left the Channeling
Chamber yesterday, Morgan struck
Maya on the head to make her
fall unconscious. She then
performed a special technique to
send the spirit back to the
other world. That's totally
believable in court.

Now ask about the "Channeling
Chamber". She says that this
chamber is built to prevent such
a tragedy. Despite Maya still
being a novice spirit channeler,
it was unlikely that the spirit
she called would turn so violent
so quickly. She is glad that
none of the heirlooms were
damaged. She is talking about
the folding screen with old
Kurain writings on it. Along
with the Sacred Urn (in the
Winding Way, remember that?),
these are irreplacable items.

Now ask about "Pearl". She says
that Pearl is her most prizes
possession at the moment. Pearl
has the spiritual power to
become the next master. She then
goes all psycho saying Pearl is
a prodigy of the family,
stronger than most in the main
branch. She half-tells you to
die or something (damn she's
creepy). Examine the folding
screen she mentioned. Phoenix
will notice that there is a
bullet hole in the screen.
Didn't Morgan say it wasn't
damaged? FOLDING SCREEN info
will be put into the Court
Record. Morgan will leave now to
visit Maya. Head back to the
Winding Way now.

-------------------------------
Date-June 20
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
You will find Pearl standing
here once again, and she still
is as shy as before. She's also
carrying the key again. Wonder
why. She won't answer any of
your questions, so present the
Magatama to her. She then starts
to cry, muttering that it
belongs to Maya. She then
recongnizes you as Nick, wonder
how she got that name. She then
calls you Maya's "special
someone". Oooh. Busted. She
totally thinks you and Maya are
in love. Pearl says that she is
going to help you however she
can. Talk to her about "Pearl".
She really looks up to Maya, and
wants to be like her when she's
older. Morgan wasn't kidding
when she said Pearl knows
nothing of the outside world.
She doesn't know what a lawyer
is.

Now ask about "The item in your
hand". She says that she found
the key yesterday. She says she
can give it to you, so choose to
"Accept it". BLACK KEY added to
the Court Record. Pearl takes
the Magatama and charges it with
spiritual energy, making it glow
brightly. She says that it will
allow you to see people's
secrets. Pearl asks to join you
for a little while, to test out
the Magatama. Let's head back
into the Side Room to visit Ini.

-----------------------------
Date-June 20
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
Ask Ini once more about "The
victim" since she totally
refuses to answer this question.
When she says she doesn't know,
the screen fades black and
chains and a lock appear over
Ini. Pearl asks if you are able
to see the lock. This is the
Magatama's secret power. You're
the only one who can see these
Psyche-Locks. The more locks you
see over a person, the harder it
will be to get that person wants
to hide the secret. She says you
should be able to unlock it
easily with only one lock.

You can try out the Magatama
Secret mode. To do so, just
present the Magatama to Ini. The
way the mode works is that she
will ask you questions that you
will need to answer with
evidence. Get enough correct and
the lock will break. However,
incorrectly guess and you will
lose health. Pearl warns you
that if you don't have enough
evidence you must stop the mode
and return later when you have
the proper evidence. You
actually don't have the right
evidence to get through the
lock, so don't waster your time
trying. Head back to the
Meditation Room.

--------------------------------
Date-June 20 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Gumshoe
right away. One of Gumshoe's
best lines comes here when he
wants to show Pearl a real,
genuine pistol. Talk to him
about "Maya's guilt". Gumshoe is
sure that you won't be able to
win. Although there are a few
pieces of evidence, such as
Lotta Hart who will be
testifying, probably about the
pictures she took. He also says
that no one else but Maya could
have killed Dr. Grey. Now ask
about "The victim". He says that
his face was all over the
tabloids last year. He says he
lost the copy of the article he
had with him, though.

Now ask about "Tomorrow's
trial". Gumshoe has some bad
news. You're up against
Prosecutor von Karma tomorrow.
How? We put that scumbag in jail
as far as we know form the
previous game! He get out early
or something? Gumshoe steps in
an says that it's actually his
successor who will be taking
place. Now ask about the
"Successor". It actually is Von
Karma's daughter, who became a
prosecutor at age 13. She hasn't
lost a trial since. She was
raised in Germany, though,
explaining why you haven't heard
about her at all.

Present the Newspaper Clipping
1. Gumshoe will add that the
situation got worse after the
incident. He has another article
which he'll give to you
describing what happened next.
NEWSPAPER ARTICLE 2 will be
added to the Court Record. You
have the evidence you need. Head
back to the Side Room.

-----------------------------
Date-June 20
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
There's nothing left to do with
Ini than present the Magatama
and unlock her hidden secret.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Magatama Secret-The
Victim~
--------------------------------
Phoenix will boldly exclaim that
Ini does infact know Dr. Grey.
While it is possible they never
met in person, Ini possibly may
have had a way of indirectly
knowing him. You need to present
something that shows a possible
connection between Ini and Dr.
Grey. Look at Newspaper Clipping
2. It says that Mimi Miney, the
nurse at the Grey Clinic, died
after falling asleep at the
wheel. Were Mimi and Ini
sisters? It's possible since
they have the same last name.
Present this article. She was
infact her older sister. This is
how she knew the name-her sister
worked at Grey's Clinic. The
lock will break.

You can now ask about "The
victim" without worry of her
stammering. She says that her
sister Mimi was a nurse at the
Grey Clinic. She heard from her
sister that Grey was a total
slave driver, totally pushing
his workers. Mimi usually came
home from work totally wiped
out. Since she was driven so
hard it's possible that is why
she fell asleep at the wheel.
Ini also thinks that the person
responsible for the malpractice
was also Grey. Her sister was
pushed so hard is led to her
death. Pearl comes in when Ini
finishes and says Psyche-Locks
are likely to be harder to break
in the future. Head back to the
detention center now.

--------------------------------
Date-June 20 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
You will meet up with someone
who hasn't seen you in a long
time. You'll find out that Maya
is channeling Mia again. Phoenix
will explain the whole case to
Mia. You can talk to her now.
Ask her about "Not guilty". She
says she knows Maya is guilty
because spirit mediums can't
have dreams. From what Maya said
earlier it seems like she was
having a dream. That's quite
impossible, though, since she
shouldn't be able to dream. This
means that Maya was probably
set-up. You need to figure out
how she was set-up, though.

Now ask about "Evidence?" She
vaguely hints at the fact that
the black key you are holding is
the key to the entire case. She
asks you to show it to her, so
present the Black Key. She says
the key shouldn't be in your
hands right now as it
contradicts the facts. She then
says you need everything you
need to know. Just then, three
Psyche-Locks appear on Mia. This
means Mia must know something
about the real murderer. Too
late to think about it because
trial is about to start. Save
the game now.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 2-1
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-June 21, 9:48 AM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 1
--------------------------------
You and Maya start discussing
what the successor to Von Karma
is going to be like in court.
Probably just like the real man
himself-sinister and willing to
do anything to get a guilty
verdict. Just then, Pearl pops
into the courthouse. Pearl snuck
away from Kurain Village all by
herself with little more than a
map to reach her. For someone
that young and no real world
experience she seems to have
gotten here nice and safe.
Ignoring the fact she ran here
(...) Maya will bring up that
Edgeworth would be better as the
prosecutor here since he isn't
as ruthless.

At the point where she calls him
Phoenix's rival and friend,
you'll see a flashback to when
Edgeworth was battling Phoenix
in court. Phoenix doesn't like
to talk about Edgeworth anymore
since he's disappeared. No more
chitchat, court is starting.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21, 10:00 AM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Damn. Von Karma's daughter sure
doesn't look pleased at
anything. She introduces herself
as Franziska von Karma, the
young prosecuting prodigy. She
gave up her career in Germany to
come to America and smoke
Phoenix's ass in court for
revenge. Obviously she isn't
pleased that her perfect father
was demolished by Phoenix in
court. She has a whip, and whips
the Judge right away when he
starts talking. Also of note is
that Franziska loves to go on
spiels where the only word she
uses in a sentence is "fool",
all plural and made up forms of
it as possible.

She tries to get Phoenix to go
for a justified self-defense
plea, but that is the same as
confessing to murder. However,
Phoenix continues to go for his
plea of not guilty. She calls in
the first witness, Detective
Gumshoe. He will then bring out
a map of the Channeling Chamber.
He puts two dots on the diagram,
one for where the killer was and
one for where the victim was. He
goes on to say that soon after
the channeling started, gunshots
were heard from the room.
Several witnesses, including
Phoenix, burst into the room.
The FLOOR PLANS will be added to
the Court Record. Gumshoe will
now testify.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Cause of
Death~
--------------------------------
-The direct cause of death was a
 pistol shot to the forehead,
 sir.

-The shot was fired from point-
 blank range.

-But before the victim was shot,
 sir, he was stabbed in the
 chest.

-The wound was very severe, but
 not enough to cause
 instantaneous death.

-The murderer used the pistol to
 finish the victim off after the
 stabbing.

You will recieve DR. GREY'S
AUTOPSY REPORT just before the
cross examination. Press the
first statement to find out that
the pistol belonged to Dr. Grey.
However, Maya's fingerprints
were found on the gun. Now press
the second statement to find out
that there were gunpowder burns
on Dr. Grey's forehead,
revealing he was shot at close
proximity. Now press the third
statement. He was stabbed by a
fruit knife, and it belonged to
the Fey's. Maya's fingerprints
are all over this as well. Press
the fourth statement next. The
stab wound just barely missed
Dr. Grey's heart so it didn't
kill him, but he became too weak
to stand after it. Press the
final statement now. You'll just
confirm that the victim was
shot, stabbed, then shot again.

The Judge will end the cross
examination since it's getting
nowhere. Gumshoe reveals that he
brought the weapons with him.
PISTOL and KNIFE will be added
to the Court Record. Franziska
states the time of death was
3:15 PM. Witnesses heard two
gunshots as well. You will now
be asked again if you want to
switch your plea over to
justified self-defense. Be sure
to "Plead not guilty". Franziska
is confident you have screwed
yourself over by continuing to
plea not guilty and orders
Gumshoe to testify on the final
strike and other incriminating
evidence.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-
Incriminating Evidence~
--------------------------------
-Sorry, pal but there's an even
 more incriminating piece of
 evidence.

-This is the costume the
 defendant was wearing at the
 time of the crime.

-As you can see, it's covered in
 blood.

-The defendant attacked and
 killed a person who, without a
 doubt, was not
fighting back.

Gumshoe will present MAYA'S
COSTUME which will be added to
the Court Record. There is a
decent amount of blood spilled
onto it, directing linking Maya
to this crime. Start off by
pressing the third statement
when he talking about how the
costume is covered in blood.
Gumshoe will say that lab
results confirmed that the blood
belongs to the victim. Franziska
will tell you that you are just
wasting time trying to get
Gumshoe to tell about other
pieces of evidence. You need to
"Press further". You will be
shown the costume again and
Phoenix says there must be a
clue somewhere. Do you see it
yet? Actually, choose "There is
one little thing..." when asked
if anything is wrong with the
costume.

You will need to point to what
the problem in the evidence is.
There is a hole, probably from a
gun bullet, in the bottom right
corner of the costume so point
there and present it. The Judge
confirms that the hole smells
like gunpowder, so there's only
one way it could have been made.
MAYA'S COSTUME will be updated
in the Court Record. Franziska
doesn't seem phazed at all, and
seems glad you found the
contradiction. However, since
this piece of evidence has
little to do with the testimony,
it still stands and Gumshoe will
continue. However, this costume
does provide a vital clue.

Present Maya's Costume on his
last statement. If there's a
gunshot hole in it, obviously
the victim was at least
attempting to fight back. Now it
is quite possible that Dr. Grey
did infact fire off a shot at
Maya. Sadly, these grounds are
only enough to support a
justified self-defense plea.
Since you chose to go for a not
guilty plea, Gumshoe will give
another testimony.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-What
Transpired~
--------------------------------
-During the channeling, the
 defendant saw her chance to
 stab the victim in
the chest.

-Of course, the victim used the
 last of his strength to fight
 back, sir.

-While the two were fighting,
 the victim took out his gun.

-The victim took a shot, but
 because they were too close, he
 missed.

-The defendant then picked up on
 the opening and took the
 victim's gun and
ended it...

There's not much information to
work off of here. This took me
forever to figure out, but
pressing will get you nowhere.
You actually need to present
Maya's Costume at the fourth
statement where he mentions that
Grey missed because they were
too close. Phoenix exclaims that
this hole creates a gap in the
testimony. If the victim and
Maya were standing at point
blank range when the gun was
fired, then there would be clear
gunpowder burns on the costume.
However, there clearly isn't.

This means that Dr. Grey and
Maya were standing a decent
distance apart from each other
when the shot was fired.
Franziska says that Dr. Grey
probably just shoved Maya away
and then shot, but Phoenix says
that the stab wound was very
severe and wouldn't have had the
strength to do such a thing.
Then she comes back and says
that it was Maya instead who
pushed Dr. Grey aside to get
distance between them before the
doctor took his shot. Choose
"Something does not make sense".

You will need to present some
evidence to prove that Maya was
not attacking at the time she
was shot at. Present the Folding
Screen, the only other piece of
evidence with a bullet hole in
it. The shot fired went through
Maya's costume, then through the
folding screen. Since the bullet
through the folding screen was
very low, this means that Maya
was squatting low on the ground,
nowhere near getting ready to
attack.

Phoenix will pull out the
Channeling Chamber diagram and
show where the victim and
folding screen are located. You
need to show where Maya was at.
Present the spot right next to
the bullet hole. Franziska will
stammer, saying it's illogical
and Maya should have been
squatting near the victim. She
couldn't have been that close
since gunpowder burns would have
been present if she was. Since
there aren't any on the costume,
this situation changes slightly.
Choose "It changes everything".

It was claimed that Maya was
aiming to kill by stabbing. If
that was true, finishing the kob
with a knife would be ideal.
However, at the time they were
squatting by the folding screen.
If Maya was the real murderer,
why would she be by the folding
screen and not preparing to
strike? Franziska gets ready to
call in the next witness, likely
to be Lotta. Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 2-2
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-June 21, 11:37 AM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Maya was scared to near death
during trial. Pearl seems as
cheerful as ever though. She
obviously doesn't know what it's
like to be a defense attorney.
Phoenix is pretty sure as well
that the next witness will be
Lotta Hart. It also seems that
Pearl didn't know that Mia was a
defense attorney before she was
killed.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21, 11:43 AM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Franziska is utterly infuriated
at the fact Phoenix just won't
lose, so much so that she tells
the Judge to shut it while she
calls the next witness. Damn.
You guessed it, Lotta Hart will
be testifying next. She's be
testifying on the events that
occured before and after the
shootings.

--------------------------------
~Lotta Hart's Testimony-
Witness's Account~
--------------------------------
-Only the Doc and the defendant
 went into the Channelin'
 Chamber.

-We were watin' outside the door
 and then, "bang!", we hear this
 gunshot!

-Mr. Lawyer there broke the door
 down, and we rushed into the
 room.

-Inside was the dead victim, and
 the defendant, wavin' a pistol
 around.

-I swear, other than those two,
 there was no one else in the
 room.

Lotta will present one of the
pictures she took. It shows the
backside of Maya with a pistol
in her right hand. LOTTA'S PHOTO
will be added to the Court
Record. Now down to business.
Press the fourth statement since
it wasn't truly the defendant
Maya, it was the spirit in her
body. "Press harder" when asked
to. You will recall that Lotta
wasn't sure at the time whether
the murderer was Maya or not.
Franziska says that since Maya
was the only other person to
have gone into the chamber, only
the person in the photo could be
Maya. Now press the final
statement.

Phoenix thinks that since the
place was very dark, there could
have been someone else in the
room. Choose "Behind the folding
screen". Lotta says that she
checked there and nobody was
hiding behind it. This doesn't
bode well with you. The Judge
becomes fed up and ends the
cross examination early.
Franziska goes back over who was
in the room, and then goes back
to the picture from earlier. You
will be asked if you want to
present evidence to prove that
this isn't Maya in the picture.
Sadly, you must choose "Can't
present anything yet" as nothing
can really show anything about
her face.

Just before Phoenix gives up,
Mia appears in Pearl's body. She
says to think carefully about
what happened in the Channeling
Chamber. She says you should
question Lotta one more time.
Franziska oddly enough will
allow Phoenix another testimony.
She's gonna talk about what
happened when she burst into the
chamber.

--------------------------------
~Lotta Hart's Testimony-
Witness's Account, Pt.2~
--------------------------------
-When we broke into that room,
 all I could focus on was Maya.

-I was...uh, kinda scared of the
 dead body, so I didn't take a
 good look at
it.

-I'm really bad when it comes to
 blood and ghosts and stuff.

-But I still managed to point my
 camera at Maya and take a shot.

There's something strange about
the testimony from the start, if
you remember. Lotta took two
photos at the crime scene and
not one. Press the fifth
statement to learn more about
the second photo. She says she
hasn't submitted the other photo
as evidence because Franziska
told her not to do so. You can
choose what to do against
Franziska now. Choose to "Leave
it to the Judge" although it
really doesn't matter. Franziska
says she didn't think the photo
would be important at all so she
didn't submit it. LOTTA'S PHOTO
2 will be added to the Court
Record.

This photo shows the actual face
of the murderer, and it is most
certainly NOT Maya. Choose to
"Insist it's not Maya". Phoenix
says that the real murderer
snuck in and traded places with
the defendant. Mia says that you
aren't hitting very hard,
though. She says Franziska is
smiling at your helpless
efforts. She then presents a
photo of you an Mia talking in
the detention center (holy crap
it's in COLOR!). But you were
really talking to Maya, right?
Franziska says she looks
different because she is
channeling a spirit, obviously.
Mia says that taking pictures
during a provate conversation is
illegal, so it can't be
presented as evidence.

You need to figure out a way to
prove the person in the second
photo isn't Maya. Choose "I can
prove it". There is a clear
contradiction in this photo
compared to the evidence. You
must point out what is wierd in
the photo. You should notice
that the costume is missing the
all-important bullet hole we
discovered earlier. Point to the
sleeve and present it.
Obviously, Franziska was hiding
this evidence from the court
intentionally. She's smiling
happy again, though. She blames
not knowing about the bullet
hole on the investigators since
they didn't notify her about the
hole in the first place.

So, we have a photo that is
missing a bullet hole in the
sleeve, and the actual costume
itself which has the sleeve with
a bullet hole. You'll need to
choose the logical explaination
for this. Choose "The shooter is
someone else." Franziska foes
crazy after you present this
statement. She is saying the
defense is in a mess right now,
and then asks Lotta if anyone
else was in the room. So, if a
third person entered the room,
who was it and where did the
come from?

Time to look at this from a
different angle. What if the
third person was already in the
room, and before breaking in
Maya somehow left the room, and
if either of these could be
proven true, Maya may be off the
hook. Before busting into the
Channeling Chamber, choose "Maya
had left the room." You need to
prove that from the murder until
the time of arrest Maya had left
the room. You need to present
the Black Key Pearl gave you
yesterday. Yes, they key to the
Channeling Chamber itself. Maya
locked herself in the room with
that key.

Now Franziska asks how the hell
the key landed in your
possession. If Maya had indeed
locked the door, the key should
have been with her. She didn't
have the key at the time of
arrest, though. You got the key
from Pearl who was nowhere near
the crime scene. This means that
Maya must have left the room at
some point. If she didn't,
Phoenix wouldn't have the key
right now. Oh yeah, totally
screwed over Franziska today.
It's a bit tricky to declare a
verdict when you're not sure if
the defendant really was the
murderer or not, or even in the
room at the time.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21, 1:32 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Pearl explains she had little
choice to call Mia to help out
in court. Maya then says she
doesn't remember ever leaving
the Channeling Chamber. Pearl
doesn't think that a third
person could have even gone into
the room. Save the game now.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 2-2
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

-----------------------
Date-June 21, 3:24 PM
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Pearl has been thinking that if
Maya isn't the one that killed
Dr. Grey, then someone else must
have done that. She seems a bit
sad, so talk to her to try
cheering her up. Ask about
"Today's trial". She was a bit
surprised at it, not expecting
so many people. Her insult at
Franziska is pretty funny too.
She wants to give Franziska a
piece of her mind. Heh. Now you
can talk to her about
"Prosecutors".

Phoenix will try to explain to
Pearl why Franziska wanted Maya
guilty so bad. Phoenix also says
that all prosecutors are the
same-they just want to win. He
hints at someone else that may
not have that same attitude, and
Pearl guesses you are talking
about Edgeworth. Phoenix also
reveals that Edgeworth
apparently committed suicide.
Er, wow. Anyways, talk about
"The murderer".

When you ask Pearl if she knows
anything, she will stammer and
claim she knows nothing. Now you
wonder what she was doing during
the murder and where she got the
key. Now ask about "Pearl's
alibi". When Phoenix asks what
she was doing during the murder,
she will stammer and two Psyche
Locks will appear over her.
There's nothing you can do to
break them for now, so head over
to the Channeling Chamber.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21 Location-Fey Manor;
Channeling Chamber
--------------------------------
Morgan will be in this room, and
she's kneeling down with a
creepy grin on her face, staring
at a picture. She mentions the
name Misty, possibly referring
to Misty Fey? Morgan will then
realize you've entered the room.
Now you can talk to her. Ask
Morgan about "What happened".
She says she has nothing more to
add about her whereabouts during
the murder. While Lotta and
Phoenix went calling the police,
she was by Maya's side. Nothing
else happened.

Now ask about "Training". She
says that all trainees go
through training almost every
day. She'll snap when Phoenix
doesn't use Maya's and Pearl's
title, so you won't learn more
about this subject. Now ask
about "The Master". Misty Fey is
the current master at the Kurain
school. Nobody is sure where she
is right now, if you recall that
is the same situation that was
brought up in the previous game.
Morgan says that she won't
return to this village most
likely, and in four years her
name will be forever erased from
it. Anyone who is gone for 20
years is considered dead, so she
won't be the master any longer.
A new master will be appointed
at that time, and Maya was
supposed to become the next
master. However, due to the
murder, this isn't gonna happen.
Head back to Kurain Village.

-----------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Present the Black Key to Pearl.
She will say she found the key
lying in the incinerator in the
Winding Way. She says she found
the key after the channeling
when everyone was in a panic.
Phoenix thinks he should check
out the area once again, so
follow that advice and head back
to Winding Way.

-------------------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
You will meet up with Ini right
away here. She runs up to you
from the incinerator. She will
mention the urn nearby, and
you'll comment that it is just a
cracked piece of pottery. Talk
to her about the "Sacred Urn".
She says it is this village's
treasure. Ami Fey's spirit is
trapped inside the urn. She's
the woman who founded the Kurain
Channeling Technique. As long as
her spirit is in the jar, the
Fey family can continue to use
their psychic prowess. Or some
myth like that. Now ask about
"What happened".

She says she has nothing to do
with the murder since she was
sleeping in the Side Room the
entire time. Now ask about the
"Traffic accident". Before you
get a chance to get a response,
Ini will claim it has nothing to
do with the murder and two
Psyche Locks will appear. You
also don't have the necessary
evidence to break the locks.
Well, that makes three. Mia's,
Pearl's, and now Ini's you can
open.

Now, examine the sacred urn. All
Phoenix will notice is a bunch
or cracks on the surface of the
urn. The words "I AM" are
written on the urn as well.
SACRED URN will be added to the
Court Record. Now examine the
piece of purple cloth hanging
from the incinerator. The piece
is from Maya's costume and the
blood is still on it. CLOTH
STRAP will be added to the Court
Record. Head all the way back to
the detention center now.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Maya seems really depressed
right now. Talk to her about
"Today's trial". She comments
that you ran a great trial
today, pulling all sorts of
turnabouts each time you were
about to lose. She questions if
it was really her who shot Dr.
Grey. She confirms nobody was
behind the folding screen. Now
ask her about "Not guilty".
Phoenix says he believes in Maya
since she isn't able to have
dreams while channeling. Phoenix
thinks that before the
channeling occured, Maya was
drugged. There was a set-up plan
to frame the murder on Maya. Now
ask about "Pearl's alibi".

Perhaps Maya will be able to
answer what she was doing during
the time of the murder. She says
that she was with Pearl most of
the day, playing with her ball.
Now ask about the "Ball". Maya
says it's just a normal ball she
likes to play with and that she
was probably playing with it
during the channeling. She also
says the ball is stored in the
clothing box, remember that? The
big yellow box in the Side Room?
Head to the Side Room right now.

-----------------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Fey Manor; Side Room
-----------------------------
Before you get here you will see
Lotta at the entrance to the
village, but she'll run off.
Once in the Side Room, examine
the ball lying right next to the
yellow box. This is Pearl's ball
(note the Steel Samurai picture
on the ball). PEARL'S BALL will
be added to the Court Record.
Now examine the yellow box
again. What the hell was Lotta
doing hiding in the box? She'll
run off again, and after than
Phoenix will notice that there
is a small hole in the clothing
box, about 8 inches off the
ground. That's the same height
as the hole in the folding
screen! CLOTHING BOX will be
added to the Court Record. Now
head back to the Meditation
Room.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21 Location-Fey Manor;
Meditation Room
--------------------------------
Pearl will meet you here and
tell you that Lotta went off,
saying she was gonna find her
true self. You have enough
evidence now, so present the
Magatama to Pearl.

--------------------------------
~Pearl's Magatama Secret-Pearl's
Alibi~
--------------------------------
Pearl isn't too thrilled about
talking about the murder much or
what she was doing during it, so
Phoenix is going to play a small
guessing game. You will be shown
a map of the Fey Manor, and need
to point out where Pearl was
during the murder. Point to the
Winding Way and present it. Now
you need to present something
that shows what she was doing in
Winding Way at the time. Present
Pearl's Ball. She was playing
with her ball during the time of
the murder. Judging by the look
on her face, something bad
happened while she was bouncing
her ball. Now you need to
present what happened. Present
the Sacred Urn. Yeah, Pearl
ended up breaking the urn while
she was playing with her ball.

She says that it isn't too wierd
to have that urn with cracks in
it, considering how old it is.
You need to present evidence to
show how the urn was broken. To
prove it, present Ami Fey's
profile. The name is spelled
"Ami", but the letters on the
urn have been rearranged to
spell "I AM" instead. Pearl's
last lock will break and you can
talk to her about "Pearl's
alibi" now.

You've alreayd figured most of
it out. During the murder, Pearl
was playing with her ball in the
Winding Way. Her ball smacked
into the urn and broke it. She
was afraid that she would be
forced to leave the village for
destroying a keepsake, so she
thought she could easily fit the
pieces back together. Now ask
about the "Sacred Urn". She got
some glue and fixed the urn back
together in the Winding Way,
assuming that since the
channeling was going on nobody
would walk by. She finished
fixing it around the time
Phoenix and Lotta finished
reporting the murder. SACRED URN
info will be updated in the
Court Record. Now head back to
Kurain Village.

-----------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Phoenix will ignore Lotta for a
few seconds while pondering over
the case. She will mutter
something about why you're
following her, then you can talk
to her. Ask about "Today's
trial". She'll admit that she
made some mistakes in trial
today. Choose to "Forgive her".
She will gladly share with you
all of the info she has dug up
so far. Now ask about "The
murderer". She thinks that since
Maya isn't the murderer, it must
be Ini instead. It couldn't
really have been anyone else.
Present to Lotta Ini's profile.

Now talk about "Ini Miney".
Lotta says that Ini was
hospitalized six months ago. She
doesn't know for sure why, but
she has the clinic's address of
where she went to. Head over to
the Hotti Clinic.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Hotti Clinic; Reception
--------------------------------
A creepy doctor with many
missing teeth and pink hair
(WTF) will greet you when you
enter. He is Director Hotti,
apparently the owner of this
clinic. A nurse will come by and
tell Hotti to return back to his
room, and to hang up the
director's coat. Is he even the
real director? Not much of a
choice you can do now. Talk
about the "Hotti Clinic". He
says they do doctory-type things
here. He also says they do
plastic surgery here. Now ask
about "Ini Miney".

She was transferred from the
general hospital. She needed
surgery, but Hotti isn't exactly
willing to tell you. There's
nothing else he can really
freely talk to you about.
Present your Attorney's Badge.
He says that he isn't the real
director to this place. He is
willing to give you some
information, though. He knows
information about many of the
patients, past and present here.
Talk about "Ini Miney" again.

She was transferred from the
general hospital about a year
ago in an emergency case. She
was seriously injured. Most of
her body was wrapped in a cast.
He then mutters that it was a
car accident that cause the
injury. Now you can ask him
about "The Operation". Most of
Ini's face was burned clean off
in the accident. Using a picture
of her, they were able to put
her face back together. Her
license was also burned in the
wreckage of the car. LICENSE
PHOTO will be added to the Court
Record. Now ask about "The
Accident".

He brings out an article that
says Ini was in the passengers
seat of the car. She was
sleeping when a jolt woke her
up, and a sea of fire was all
around her. She managed to get
the door open and escaped the
fire. NEWSPAPER CLIPPING 2 will
be added to the Court Record. It
has been about half a year since
Ini was discharged from the
clinic. Had back to Kurain
Village now.

-----------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Lotta will say that Morgan
called the cops a little while
ago, saying that she had
something important to tell
them. Talk to Lotta about
"Morgan". As it turns out,
although the master right now is
Misty Fey, the real master was
supposed to be Morgan. Now ask
about "Ini Miney". She confirms
Ini is still hanging out near
Winding Way. Now ask Lotta about
"The Master". The master is
apparently always the oldest
daughter. Morgan is Misty's
older sister. The older sister
usually has the stronger powers,
but not so in this case. Most of
the villae turned against Morgan
for having no power at all. If
it wasn't for this, Maya's
family would have been the
branch family. Now head to
Winding Way.

-------------------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Fey Manor; Winding Way
-------------------------------
As Phoenix hints at, you have
enough evidence now to unlock
Ini's secrets. Present the
Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Magatama Secret-
Traffic Accident~
--------------------------------
Ini starts off by questioning
what accident you are talking
about. She says that Dr. Grey
made her sister fall asleep at
the wheel and that's all she has
to say. Since she said "whose
accident" it implies she knows
more than one accident. Phoenix
will try changing the topic to
someone else's accident. Present
the License Photo. Let's ask
about her accident instead. Now
you need to prove that she was
ever in an accident. Present
Newspaper Clipping 2. The
clipping states that Ini Miney
had an interview after the
crash.

Now she states that that "Ini
Miney" in the article wasn't
actually her, although they just
happen to have the same name.
Now you need to prove that she
was ever hospitalized. Present
the License Photo again here.
Yeah, the photo looks just like
Ini. The first lock will break.
Now she says that the accident
in question isn't related to
this murder. Now you need to
present who the woman that died
in the accident was. Present
Mimi Miney's profile of course.
Both of them were in the car,
together, when the accident
occured, making them the same.

Now talk about the "Traffic
accident". She was riding in the
car with her sister, on their
way home. She was riding in the
passenger seat when she fell
asleep when it happened, the
accident. She was incapable of
doing anything to help her
sister. Now ask about "Dr.
Grey". Ini is positive that Dr.
Grey drugged her in order to get
revenge for killing his
patients. She then says it will
be impossible to catch her. Head
back to Kurain Village.

-----------------------
Date-June 21
Location-Kurain Village
-----------------------
Gumshoe and Pearl will be
fighting when you arrive here.
Morgan comes in and says to
Pearl that she will be fine for
now, and to protect the manor
while she is gone. Gumshoe tries
to show his real, genuine
pistol, but that just upsets
Morgan. Talk to Pearl about
"Morgan" now. She has a feeling
that something bad is going to
happen and she's not sure what.
Now ask about "Maya". Pearl says
she will be perfectly fine here,
so you should go visit Maya in
the detention center.

--------------------------------
Date-June 21 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
You will find Mia again when you
enter. Mia invites you to try
your luck at getting the last
piece of information. What a
jerk, her sister's fate could
rest on this information and
she's forcing us to play a game
to find it out. Honestly...for
now, talk about "The murderer".
The Psyche Locks will apper over
Mia now. Present the Magatama so
we can get this over with.

--------------------------------
~Mia's Magatama Secret-The
Murderer~
--------------------------------
You know that she is hiding
information from you
intentionally. You need to
present who she is trying to
protect. Present Morgan's
profile. The first lock will
break off easily. However,
Morgan was outside with you when
the murder was taking place, so
she has an alibi. Now you need
to present evidence that may
place suspicion on Morgan.
Present the Cloth Strap. This
strap was from Maya's costume.
However, when Maya was arrested
she was wearing the outfit. This
means someone must have changed
her clothes. Who was the only
person with Maya when nobody
else was around? Morgan. Now you
need to present proof that this
blood belongs to Maya's costume,
not someone else's.

Present the Black Key now. Maya
had this key when she was
channeling. Somehow it ended up
in the incinerator much like the
piece of cloth. Maya also said
earlier that the key was placed
in her sleeve. Both were found
in the incinerator. This means
this must be part of Maya's
costume. The only person who
could have changed her clothes
and burned these items was
Morgan. The second lock will
break now. Now you need to who
or what Morgan needed to place
the murder. Present to her Ini
Miney's profile, the only other
person without an alibi who was
at the manor. This means that
Ini and Morgan were working
together.

Now ask about "The Murderer".
This crime was something no
normal person could do. Someone
had to know a lot of the Fey
Manor to do this. We can assume
that Ini Miney had something to
do with this. However, we are
still missing a motive. Why
would Morgan go through all of
this trouble? Mia mutters it
involves her mother. You have
gathered every clue you can.
Time for the final showdown.
Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 2-3
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-June 22, 9:51 AM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Maya mentions tha Franziska is
the same age as herself, and the
amount of strength between the
two is uncomparable. Pearl comes
in to greet everyone cheerfully,
and says that Morgan is coming
to testify on her behalf. Or so
you may think. Phoenix asks
Pearl to channel Mia again, and
says thankfully that this way
she won't be able to see the
trial, whatever that could mean.

--------------------------------
Date-June 22, 10:00 AM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Franziska is quite confident
that she will utterly defeat
you. Mia will appear next to
you, saying this already makes
you seem famous. I think it's
time we brought down this
egoistic blue haired maniac
before she gets any further. The
Judge will then recap what was
found out at the end of the
trial yesterday. Namely, the
possibility that Maya could have
left the Channeling Chamber. The
key was proof enough of this.
Franziska points out that from
the time of murder to the time
of arrest, Maya did indeed leave
the chamber.

She then goes on to say that
Maya dropped the key after she
left the room. She then calls
Morgan ot the stand to testify
on this behalf. Morgan talks
about the technique she used to
remove the spirit from Maya's
body briefly, then goes on to
say Maya escaped the room
afterwards. She'll testify based
on what happened.

--------------------------------
~Morgan Fey's Testimony-Maya's
Escape~
--------------------------------
-After we heard the gunshots,
 those two broke the door open
 and entered the
Chamber.

-I requested that Mr. Wright and
 the other lady please contact
 the police.

-A pistol was hanging from
 Mystic Maya's hand and she was
 in a daze...

-Then, quite suddenly, she
 thrusted me away from herself
 and escaped from
the room.

-With great strength, she hit
 the base of my neck and I
 fainted for a short
while...

-I'm afraid I have no knowledge
 of where she went after that.

Mia says before you start that
there's no clear contradiction,
so get pressing. Press the first
statement, though you won't hear
anything new to the case. Press
the second statement where
Morgan says she told Phoenix and
Lotta to contact the police. If
the job was just to call the
police, then why should two
people need to have done it?
Morgan says she was confused and
that there was
another...something. She shuts
up after that. Choose to
"Question further". She says she
didn't want either of you in
there because she didn't want
any more victims. Press the thid
statement. She now says that the
statement where she hit Maya on
the head to make her fall
unconcious was a lie. Franziska
says that she way lying to
protect the defendant. Choose to
"Question further". She was
correctly informed later what
happened.

Press the fourth statement.
Franziska says it was easy for
Maya to shove away Morgan since
she wasn't physically Maya at
the time. Now press the fifth
statement. She says she was
unconcious for about ten
minutes. Press the final
statement next. Choose to
"Question further". Phoenix says
if she is so sure she didn't
know what Maya did when Morgan
was knocked unconcious, how can
she be sure Maya left the room
at all? Now that you have
pressed every statement, the
Judge ends the examination.
Franziska says the important
thing is where Maya went after
leaving the chamber.

She then goes on to say Maya
went to speak with a certain
person. She calls in Ini Miney,
the only other person near the
murder scene at the time. She
will testify on what happened
with Maya.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Testimony-After the
Murder~
--------------------------------
-Like, when the channeling
 started, I was, like, sleeping
 in the Side Room.

-Like, a little later, someone
 came into the room, like,
 really suddenly.

-It was, like, oh my gawd,
 totally my sister!

-I, like, hadn't seen her in,
 like, so long...I was so happy
 in, like, a
sad way...

-My sister...She, like, told me
 something, like, totally
 terrible.

Ini mentions a terrible thing at
the end of her testimony. She
said that her sister told her
that she was drugged by Doctor
Grey, and it was no accident.
Then her sister told her she
took her revenge on Dr. Grey.
Mia then says that this
tesitmony was probably just one
huge made up lie.

Press the fourth statement,
about when she saw her sister.
Phoenix asks why she wasn't
shocked or anything to see her
dead sister standing right near
her. Choose to "Question
further". The Judge will ask if
the question of if she really
saw her sister or not was
important. Choose "It is very
important". Ini will change her
line of testimony to this:

-I wasn't, like, scared at all.
 And, like, her costume looked,
 like,
normal.

Press this new statement. Mia
will say that it is impossible
for her costume to not having
something wrong with it. At this
statement, present Maya's
Costume. It had spilled blood on
it, remember? That should have
been very noticeable. Phoenix
will show the crime photo and
the blood spray on the dress.
Ini totally, like, stammers when
told she should have noticed the
blood right away. Ini snaps for
a second, then regains
composure. She's gonna testify
again. Woo.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Testimony-After the
Murder, Pt.2~
--------------------------------
-Like, the Side Room was, like,
 kinda dark, you know?

-So like, the costume is, like,
 purple, right? The blood
 totally blended
right in.

-And I, like, persuaded my
 sister it wasn't, like, right
 to do something
like that.

-And then...like, I took my
 sister to the Channeling
 Chamber.

Something is odd about the third
statement, so press it. What is
she taking about when she says
the persuaded her sister to do
something? Ini says her sister
was aware of this and wanted to
go apologize to Morgan or
something. Now press the final
statement. Phoenix will go on to
say if there was something that
wasn't right with the scene.
Choose when she "was going to
the crime scene". She answers
quickly, so "Press harder". Ini
refuses to answer the question,
and the Judge asks if this was
important at all. Choose "It's
very important". Now she'll add
this statement:

-I, like, didn't see anyone on
 the way to, like, the
 Channeling Chamber.

Press this new statement. Ini is
completely positive she saw
nobody in the Winding Way when
she was heading to it. However,
this is quite false. Present
Pearl's profile at this new
statement. Pearl was busy fixing
the broken urn, and when we
talked to her she clearly said
nobody passed by. Ini spazzes
out for a second at this fact.
Now you need to present evidence
showing there would be no way to
miss Pearl busy in the Winding
Way. Present the Sacred Urn. The
urn was broken around the time
the channeling started. Pearl
managed to put it back together
in the middle of the Winding
Way. Thusly, it would be
impossible to miss her passing
through it.

Well this shows that Ini must
have been lying the entire time.
She still says she was sleeping
in the Side Room, so choose
"There is no way!" when Phoenix
thinks if this is still true.
Phoenix says there is a clear
contradiction. To show where,
choose "It's in her testimony
just now". Ini said that Morgan
was the only one in the
Channeling Chamber. However, if
she was sleeping, how did she
know this? So, she did go to the
Channeling Chamber but she never
went through the Winding Way.

So Ini couldn't have been in the
Winding Way or the Side Room at
the time of the murder. You must
now point to where Ini was when
the murder took place. Present
the in the Channeling Chamber.
Ini must have been at the crime
scene the entire time. Ini was
hiding the entire time in the
Channeling Chamber. Now you must
present where she was hiding.
Point to the right of the
folding screen. It's the far
right side of the screen, so
it's technically "behind" the
folding screen. Now you must
present evidence to help show
how she was hiding. There was a
hole in the folding screen.
Remember another object with a
similar hole? Present the
Clothing Box.

Anybody could hide in it since
Lotta did the same thing
yesterday. The Judge will ask if
you can prove the clothing box
was at the scene of the crime at
the time. Choose "Yes, I can
with some evidence". Now you
need to present how you know the
box was there. It should be
simple-present the Folding
Screen. Yeah, the hole in the
box and the hole in the folding
screen are at the same height.
It can't be a mere coincidence.
Ini must have been hiding in the
box, waiting for her chance to
kill Dr. Grey. So, was the
person in the crime photo Ini
Miney? She wore a costume to
masquerade as Maya the entire
time.

Franziska will say this is
impossible for one person to do
by themself. Choose "Correct.
It's not possible." Ini starts
getting irratated when Phoenix
suggests more than one person
could have been in cahoots with
this plan. Ini had an
accomplice. Present Morgan Fey's
profile, the only other person
at or anywhere near the crime
scene. If the person wasn't from
the village she couldn't have
gotten the costume. If it wasn't
someone who lived there, she
couldn't have gotten the box.
Ini goes crazy now.

Phoenix will try to support his
own theory. Ini had put herself
at the crime scene long before
it occured. Dressed in the
medium's costume and wearing a
wig, she imitated the defendant.
Then the channeling started. Ini
got out of the box and drugged
Maya, then stabbed Dr. Grey with
the knife. Then she hid Maya
inside the box. She did this to
take Maya's place and frame her
for the crime. Something
unexpected happened. Dr. Grey
was not dead, so he took a shot
at his attacker. That is why the
hole in the folding screen is so
low. The murderer took the gun
and finished off Dr. Grey.

After the gunshot, Phoenix and
Lotta forced their way into the
room. Several photos were taken.
Ini covered her costume in
blood, pretending to be Maya.
This probably would have been
easy to figure out at the crime
scene, so that's why Morgan
chased you out of the room.
Franziska isn't ready to lose
the trial just yet, and says
that Ini would need a motive to
go through this trouble. This
should also be simple from what
she said in her previous
testimony. Present Mimi Miney's
profile. She must have gone
through this trouble to take
revenge on her sister's death.

Ini says she was discharged from
the hospital six months ago. If
she wanted to kill Dr. Grey, why
would she have waited this long?
The Judge is about to end the
trial since you have nothing
more to say, but Mia steps in
and asks for another minute. Ini
had a reason to kill Dr. Grey.
Choose "Yes, I can" when asked
if you have proof for a motive.
There will be a short recess
before the final showdown. Save
the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 2-4
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-June 22, 12:04 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Maya is a bit surprised at the
fact her aunt must have had some
part to do with this set-up
murder. Franziska will appear
and say that everything is going
to her plans. She is damn
determined to let the world know
of Phoenix's downfall. She's a
bit creepy. Ooookay.

--------------------------------
Date-June 22, 12:10 PM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Ini will be asked to testify
about the car accident from last
year, the main connection in
this crime.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Testimony-Last
Year's Accident~
--------------------------------
-That was...like, last year, in
 May.

-Like, something really bad has
 happened at, like, my sister's
 clinic
around then...

-And like, the night of the
 accident, my sis was totally
 tired while she
was driving.

-I was, like, totally pooped
 too, so I, like, fell asleep in
 the
passenger's seat...

-I, like, woke up 'cause of a
 jolt, and, like, it was a sea
 of flames
around me.

-I, like, opened the door and,
 like, got away.

Press the third statement where
she talks about how Mimi was
tired when driving. She had to
talk to police and was being
investigated like every day.
Choose to "Press harder".
Phoenix will ask why they didn't
just switch places, making Ini
the driver. Ini then says she
doesn't have a driver's license.
Her line of testimony will
change to this:

-I, like, didn't have my
 license, so, like, I couldn't
 take over driving
for her.

Bull. We have her her license in
the Court Record. Present the
License Photo at this statement.
Ini then stammers saying she did
have a driver's license, but
didn't get it until after the
accident. Ini then says she
recieved her license last
November. Ini thinks that even
if she had a license her sister
wouldn't have allowed her to
drive. She will now testify on
this matter.

--------------------------------
~Ini Miney's Tesitmony-I
Wouldn't Be Allowed~
--------------------------------
-Like, around that time, I was,
 like, really close to getting
 my license.

-My sis was, like, this totally
 big fan of cars and, like,
 really valued
them.

-She, like, had just goteen this
 really shiny, bright red sports
 car.

-She, like, would say things
 like, "No way am I letting a
 newb drive my
car!"

-So, like, that's why I ended up
 in the passenger's seat that
 night too.

Press the third statement, about
how Mimi had just gotten a new
sports car. She says it was from
the UK. Mimi said it was a
really special model. Choose to
"Press harder". Ini will change
her line of testimony to this:

-My sis' new car was, like, a
 totally special model from
 England.

Press this new statement and
"Ask for the heck of it".
Remember Phoenix's critical
statement that the driver's seat
is opposite to the cars in the
United States. She then goes
crazy about how great the car
was. Found the contradiction?
Check out Newspaper Clipping 2
in detail. Ini says that she
climbed out of the right side
door. This wouldn't be a problem
if she wasn't the passenger in a
car made from England. Since
everything is screwed up there,
if she was really the passenger
she would have climbed out of
the LEFT side door. Present the
Newspaper Clipping 2 at this
statement.

So, this means that if Ini was
on the right side of the car,
she's be in the driver's seat
instead. It turns out this is
all a big misunderstanding. Who
was really driving that night?
Choose "Mimi Miney". She was the
only person with a driver's
license. Now comes the million
dollar question-who the hell is
the person at the witness's
stand? Now you must tell her
real name. Present Mimi Miney's
profile.

She was admitted into the
hosptial with facial burns. To
put her face back together they
needed a picture as refrence,
and it was Ini's picture she
gave. It was thought Mimi had
died in the car accident, when
infact the opposite was true.
The dead body at the crash site
was the real Ini Miney. Mimi
survived the crash and rebuilt
her face to mimic Ini's so
nobody would recongize the
difference. Now this is why Mimi
had to kill Dr. Grey. He wanted
to call the spirit to a dead
person, specifically Mimi Miney.
That would have been impossible
since Mimi wasn't actually dead.
If the channeling had actually
occured, this would have been
discovered.

Ini...or Mimi says that she's
finally been unmasked. Mimi now
says that the doctor finally got
what was coming to him in the
end. You need to present why
Mimi was so willing to let go of
herself. Present Newspaper
Clipping 1. Dr. Grey was
actually right the whole time.
The mistake was caused by Mimi.
A few weeks after this mishap
she got into a car accident
where her younger sister was
killed. This was her last chance
to throw away her old life and
start over as her sister. Well,
looks like you've won. Just
before you get the Not Guilty
verdict, Franziska goes psycho
and whips Phoenix into
submission.

--------------------------------
Date-June 22, 3:13 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Mia and Maya have a short and
sweet reunion with each other.
Mia also says that she stored
her clothes in that box long ago
as well. Phoenix now wonders
what would have happened if Mimi
didn't shoot Dr. Grey. She
probably would have opened the
doors anyways, and the scene
would have been that much more
shocking. Maya then demands to
know why Morgan went through all
of this trouble to get her
convicted of murder. Present
Pearl's profile. The new master
will be delcared in several
years, and next in line is Maya.
If Maya wasn't there to take the
place of master, then Pearl
would have been the next in line
to become master.

Well that's some crazy stuff.
All this just to make Pearl the
next master. Hmm.

--------------------------------
Date-Date and Time unknown
Location-Detention Center;
Solitary Confinement Cell 13
--------------------------------
Clearly Morgan is the one
speaking here. She says only
Pearl is the one suitable to
become the next master of Kurain
Village. She admits to
sacrificing herself just to have
her become the next master. All
to unseat Maya. She says Pearl's
time will come soon...

This is the end of the case.
Episode 3 will now be unlocked.

================================
    ~7.Episode Three-Turnabout
    Big Top~
================================
The intro to this case starts in
what appears to be a large
circus show. Deemed someone
who's master flight, the scene
pans upwards towards the famous
Maximillion Galactica. He flies
around for a bit, then vanishes.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 3-1
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-December 26, 8:12 PM
Location-Berry Big Circus;
Circus Entrance
--------------------------------
Turns out Phoenix, Pearl, and
Maya were here to watch the show
as well. Seems like Phoenix has
a tough time finding cases, it's
been about five months since the
last one. Maya mentions Max
Galactica, the world's greatest
magician. Maya and Pearl head
back to Kurain Village, Maya
promising to be back by the New
Year.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28, 9:12 AM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Phoenix intends on cleaning up
his office when Maya calls his
phone. She orders Phoenix to
turn on the TV for an important
announcement. Back at the Berry
Big Circus, a murder has taken
place. That's the circus they
all went to two days ago. Turns
out Max Galactica was the one
who was suspected and arrested.
Maya says she'll meet Phoenix in
the detention center. Looks like
you've taken on this case
whether you wanted to or not.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28, 11:19 AM
Location-Detention Center;
Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Maya has arrived and exclaims
that there's no way Max
Galactica would ever kill
somebody. You'll see Max through
the glass now, and yes, he calls
almost everything fabulous. He
then plays a magic trick with
Maya for a second, then tries it
on Phoenix. Although he picks a
card, Max still just talks to
Maya. Seems he really likes
people who admire him. Might as
well talk to the fabulous Max
Galactica.

Talk to him about "Max
Galactica". Max seems really
over-egoistic here, and then
Phoenix says that he recently
won an award. He won the
Magician's Grand Prix, held by
an association of magicians. The
award pretty makes him the most
fabulous of fabulous magicians.
There was a trophy and a bust.
Now ask him about the "Berry Big
Circus". He talks about how he
is the lead magician of the
Berry Big Circus. He also says
that it's a thing of the past.
Nowadays nobody cares what goes
on there. That's why he signed a
contract to the place, so he
could make it more fabulous. He
goes on to say he makes all the
other performers obsolete. Jerk.
Now ask about "What happened".

Last night, the ringmaster
Russell Berry was murdered.
Somebody smashed his head and he
was found lying on the ground.
Even though it occured in the
middle of the night, there was a
ton of police activity. Max was
also the last person to see the
ringmaster before he was
murdered. He makes it sound like
he hasn't been arrested-that the
police are merely questioning
him. Now ask about "Meeting with
Russell". Max doesn't feel like
talking about what he talked
about with Russell. Just then,
three Psyche Locks appear on
him. Unless your Attorney's
Badge can answer all the
questions, just keep this at the
back of your mind for now.

Present your Attorney's Badge,
though. It's hard but Maya will
eventually manage to break the
truth to Max that he's really
been arrested for murder. Max
then starts bawling, saying
there's no way he'd ever kill
someone. He then starts using
country talk, just as annoying
as Lotta's from the previous
case. He also says his real name
is Billy Bog Johns, and that he
is really a country bumpkin.
You've taken on the case now.
Move to the circus entrance.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Circus Entrance
--------------------------------
There's a bunch of police
investigators running amok,
obviously trying to find
important evidence. Maya says
you should find somebody to help
with the case. Move to the
Lodging House.

-----------------------------
Date-December 28
Location-Lodging House; Plaza
-----------------------------
This appears to be a dormatory
where all of the circus
performers live. You will meet
up with Detective Gumshoe here.
Talk to Gumshoe about
"Tomorrow's trial". Franziska
von Karma is going to be the
prosecutor for this case as
well. Seems she hasn't had
enough on Phoenix just yet. Maya
also asks Gumshoe about the
whereabouts of Edgeworth.
Gumshoe isn't exactly willing to
tell you the details of what
happened to him. He says he just
isn't here anymore. Phoenix also
tells Maya to not say his name
again.

Now ask about "What happened".
The ringmaster died around 10
PM, outside in the cold. The
body was found right around this
lodge, actually. The ringmaster
was killed by a blunt force to
the head. He mentions that
something just didn't fit right.
Now ask about "Something
unusual". Turns out there were
footprints. He then shows you a
picture of the crime scene.
Russell is lying in the snow
ontop of a box. The footprints
belong to Russell, so the
problem is that the killer's
footprints are nowhere around.
So who was the killer and where
did they come from? CRIME PHOTO
will be added to the Court
Record.

Now present Max's profile.
Gumshoe says most people don't
like Max, probably because of
his attitude. Gumshoe also has
proof of his crime. He left one
of his hat's at the crime scene.
SILK HAT will be added to the
Court Record. He says that
eyewitnesses saw the event and
know about it. Talk about
"Eyewitnesses" now. He won't
tell you who they are, but he
says you're not permitted to
enter the lodging house. Now
head to the Big Top.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Big Top
--------------------------------
It really should seem like an
unsafe, or really stupid idea to
be messing in the area where the
performers...perform.
Unfortunately, a tiger charges
right at Phoenix and Maya. A
young girl appears, appearently
she is the lion tamer. The girl
is also amused at how Maya has
her own costume. Heh. She
introduces herself as Regina
Berry, the animal tamer for the
Berry Big Circus. Talk to Regina
about "What happened". She seems
to announce confidently that her
father was murdered. Everyone
was here practicing last night.
They all finished at around 10
PM. Regina stayed at the Big
Top, though, to play with her
tiger Regent. Now ask about
"Regina".

She playfully admits that Regent
nor any of the other animals are
scary at all. She also says that
since Leon died she's been
hanging with Regent. Regina's
dad killed Leon. She isn't too
sure why he was killed, though.

Present Russell Berry's profile.
Regina will say he went back to
his room once practice was over,
and she'll point the way to his
room. Head to his room now.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Big
Top; Ringmaster's Room
--------------------------------
This must have been the room
where Max and Russell were
talking last night. Maya also
notices a large picture of Max
on the wall. Examine the paper
envelope on the table. Max's
salary is written on the paper,
and the ringmaster signed it.
Max's salary was clearly raised,
but the document was dated a
week ago. RINGMASTER'S PAPERS
will be added to the Court
Record now. Examine the black
tuxedo in the corner of the room
next. A piece of paper is
hanging out of the coat. You
aren't allowed to read it,
though.

Now examine the posters on the
back wall. Turns out Maya
already swiped one of the
posters when you were busy. MAX
G. PROMO POSTER will be added to
the Court Record. There's
nothing left to do here, head
back out.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Big Top
--------------------------------
Present Max's profile. You'll
break the news to her that Max
has been arrested. She says
she's worried about many things
right now. Talk to her about
"What's on your mind?" She tells
just Maya, and she gets real
excited and happy for Regina.
She says that someone professed
their love for Regina. Now only
that, but it was Max Galactica
who did just so. On the same day
another person also professed
their love. It was some guy
named Trilo. Head back to the
entrance.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Circus Entrance
--------------------------------
You'll find a man in a white
tuxedo with a huge red bow tie
standing around the tent
entrance. He says that he
doesn't work at the circus, and
seems a bit quiet about it. Then
he goes on to say he's a
ventriloquist after slightly
being insulted. He says he's
Benjamin Woodman. Talk to him
about "What happened". He tries
to say he doesn't know anything
about the murder, but keeps
stuttering. Now ask about "Max
Galactica". He says he's not too
friendly. Now ask about
"Ventriloquism". He seems to say
something about his puppet...but
doesn't get further than that.
Head back to the Lodging Area
and enter Moe's room.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Lodgin
Hall 1st Floor; Moe's Room
--------------------------------
You'll meet up with Moe,
naturally since this is his
room. He's a pretty over-the-top
clown for the circus. He keeps
trying to make really horrible
jokes with pretty much every
statement. Yeah, he'll laugh at
everything he says. Quite
annoying. When he finally shuts
up long enough for you to talk
to him, ask about the "Berry Big
Circus". He says the circus has
been in business for over 20
years. All this time they've
performed under Russell Berry.
He says this kind of
entertainment has become more
and more difficult to work with
over the years. Moe has been
here since the very beginning.
He also admits that Russell was
a really kind guy, always
thinking of his employees. He's
ticked that someone would
outright kill him. Now ask about
"What happened".

He says it happened around 10 PM
last night. He came back to his
room at around that time, then
caught a peek of the action when
he went to bed. Moe is the
eyeiwtness to the crime as
Gumshoe hinted at. Now ask about
"Russell Berry". Russell was
constantly adding new acts to
the show. He says that Max takes
things too far, though. He seems
to be hiding something about Max
on the day of the murder. Now
ask about "What you witnessed".

Moe isn't allowed to tell you
anything he witnessed, but he
might let it go for a joke. A
really horrible joke told by
Wright. Anyways, Moe heard a
loud noise that night. It
sounded like a loud thump.
Thagt's when he saw someone in a
cap and top hat, near Russell's
dead body. Next, present Max's
profile.

Moe says that the morning of the
murder he clonked Ben on the
head very hard. He suggests that
you go to the cafeteria and
investigate. CIRCUS MAP will be
added to the Court Record after
he hands it to you. Move to the
Big Top, and from there to the
Cafeteria.

---------------------------
Date-December 28
Location-Big Top; Cafeteria
---------------------------
Moe said, in a really bad pun,
there's "Gotti" be something
here. This place is a terrible
mess due to nobody being able to
pick up the place once the
murder happened. The only thing
you need to do is examine the
broken bottle on the ground.
BROKEN BOTTLE will be added to
the Court Record. You have
enough evidence to break Mac's
Psyche Locks now, so head back
to him.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Talk to Max about "Max
Galactica". He thinks that the
other performers are just
jealous. He also says that he
plans to get married to Regina,
and that most of it is in the
works right now. Now ask about
"What happened". Max goes on to
say that when he was in
Russell's room at 10 PM, Russell
needed to leave for a few
minutes. Max stayed in the room.
He never came back, and he was
unaware where he went. Time to
present the Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Max Galactica's Magatama
Secret-Meeting with Russell~
--------------------------------
Phoenix asks if the only thing
Max did in Russell's room was
discuss his salary. You need to
present something that proves he
discussed more than just that.
Present the Ringmaster's Papers.
The main problem with this is
that it was dated a week ago. He
says that on that night the
ringmaster actually called him
to his room. Now you need to
present something that shows
what he was called into the room
to discuss. Present the Broken
Bottle. The second lock will
break. He says the bottle just
fell onto the floor, but you
need to present what really
happened. Present Ben's profile.
Max hit Ben over the head with
the bottle. That's why he was
called to the room.

Now ask about "Meeting with
Russell". On that morning at
breakfast, Ben and Max had a run
in. They had a fight over
Regina. Max got upset that
somebody else was competing for
Regina's love so he hit him over
the head with a bottle. He was
called to the ringmaster's room
about this, and that was his
chance to ask him to marry
Regina. Since Ben was causing
trouble he had to shut him up.
Now ask about "Shut him up".

Unless Trilo is with Ben (Trilo
is his puppet), Ben hardly says
a word. Max decided to hide
Trilo in the ringmaster's room.
Head over to the room right now.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Big
Top; Ringmaster's Room
--------------------------------
You need to find Trilo in this
room. Examine the trophy case on
the left side of the room to
discover Trilo lying inside.
TRILO QUIST will be added to the
Court Record. Head to the
cafeteria to meet up with Ben.

---------------------------
Date-December 28
Location-Big Top; Cafeteria
---------------------------
Talk to Ben about "What
happened". Ben still says he
doesn't know anything. Now ask
about "Berry Big Circus". He
says that he doesn't really like
Regina too much. Seems odd since
I thought Regina said he wanted
to marry her. Anyways, present
Trilo to Ben. It will be removed
from the Court Record now. Now
for something odd, all of Ben's
thoughts will be projected
through the puppet. You can
freely talk to him now. Ask
about "What happened". Trilo
says the he probably deserved it
since he payed him very little
for his work. Now ask about
"Berry Big Circus".

Yeah. Trilo flat out says most
things in this circus suck. He
says that even in this pool of
misfit circus performers he
found someone to love- Regina.
Trilo says he wants to marry
Regina. Now ask about "Flying
Fraud". Trilo says that he has
the facts because he was there
when the murder took place. Now
ask about "Marriage". He says
that he gave her a gift of song.
He says that he wants to get to
court to finally get rid of Max
Galactica.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Big Top
--------------------------------
Head back to the entrance. On
your way, a monkey will attack
you and steal your Attorney's
Badge. Regina says that his name
is Money and she is willing to
help you out. Talk about "Money
the Monkey". She says that Moe
probably knows where he is
hiding. Now ask about "Ben and
Trilo". Trilo told Regina he was
in love with her, not Ben. Now
ask about the "Proposal". This
won't really get you anywhere.
She just acts like a naive girl,
not aware Trilo is a friggin
puppet. Head to Moe now.

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-
Lodging Hall 1st Floor; Moe's
Room
--------------------------------
Talk to Moe about "Regina". He
says that Regina was born and
raised in the Big Top, and knows
little about the outside world.
Now ask about "Money the
Monkey". Moe is willing to take
you to the owner of Money right
now. Choose to "Go with Moe".

--------------------------------
Date-December 28 Location-
Lodging Hall 3rd Floor; Acro's
Room
--------------------------------
This is Acro's room. He's an
acrobat for the circus. Moe says
that Acro is out for the day.
Before he leaves, MONEY THE
MONKEY data will be added to the
Court Record. Examine the pile
of junk in the corner of the
room. PHOENIX'S ATTORNEY'S BADGE
will be added to the Court
Record again. Phoenix then finds
a ring reading "From T to R" on
it. RING will be added to the
Court Record. That wraps up this
day. Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 3-2
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 9:43 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max is here, and he seems a bit
troubled. He desires a glass of
milk, but is denied his request.
The he says he wants to make a
flying entrance into the
courtroom. Hehe, but Phoenix
wishes it could be him that'd
make the entrance...

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
The Judge starts off by calling
Max Galactica by his stage name
due to his granddaughter being a
big fan. Franziska is still
ticked off at the whole spirit
channeling sham and says that it
totally doesn't count for
anything. Good to know she's
doing well. Gumshoe is the first
witness called up.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Detail of
the Events~
--------------------------------
-The night of the crime, snow
 was falling until 9:40 PM,
 making it
extremely cold out.

-All of the circus performers
 gathered in the Big Top to
 practice their
routines.

-The pracitce session broke up
 around 10 PM.

-The murder itself took place in
 the plaza in front of the
 lodging house at
10:15 PM.

-The victim was found bent over
 a wooden box dead as a
 doornail.

-The cause of death was blunt
 force trauma that snapped a
 vertebrae in his
neck.

You will recieve RUSSELL'S
AUTOPSY REPORT into the Court
Record before the cross
examination. Start by pressing
the first statement. You'll
learn nothing of interest. Now
press the second statement.
Gumshoe says all the main
performers, excluding the
dancers and leaders, were there
at the practice. Press the third
statement next. He mentions
where everyone went after the
practice was over. You already
know Max and Russell went back
to the ringmaster's room to
discuss the salary, and Moe went
back to his room.

Now press the fourth statement.
You'll get nothing out of it.
Pressing the fifth statement
will make Gumshoe talk about the
wooden box. He says the box was
locked and heavier than it
looked. WOODEN BOX will be added
to the Court Record. You can ask
a question about the box itself.
Choose "About the contents". The
only thing inside of the box was
a small bottle, filled with
pepper. SMALL SEASONING BOTTLE
will be added to the Court
Record. Does this hold any
significance...? Press the final
statement. Nobody knows what the
murder weapon is, it's still
being searched for. Now that
you've pressed all the
statements, the examination will
end.

Franziska then calls Ben and
Trilo to the stand. After Trilo
badmouths almost everyone in the
courtroom several times, he'll
finally testify about what he
saw.

--------------------------------
~Ben and Trilo's Testimony-What
You Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-Once practice was over, I left
 the tent with the stooge...I
 mean clown.

-Once we got to the lodging
 house, I ditched him and went
 over to the
plaza.

-That's when I saw Max heading
 towards the scene of the crime.

-He was the only one heading
 that way...How could that punk
 not be the
killer?

-Then police showed up, and took
 magic boy away.

Before you can to examine him,
the Judge asks if it was
possible at all for Moe to have
committed the crime since nobody
was with him. Franziska says
that was impossible since the
silk hat, a signature feature of
Max, was found at the scene.
Yeah, as if that couldn't have
been just planted there easily.

Press Trilo's third statement
when he mentions seeing Max head
over to the scene of the crime.
He says that his 3-piece getup
is impossible to not notice.
He's referring to his silk hat,
cloak, and white roses around
his neck. Now press the fourth
statement about him being the
only one heading that way. Trilo
will say he was certain he only
saw Max. You can ask a question
here, so choose "Ben only saw
Max?" You will need to show who
else he should have seen.
Present Russell Berry's profile.
If Max was heading off in that
direction to the ringmaster's
room, he would have to have seen
Russell as well.

Press the fifth statement next.
Ben says that the police didn't
arrive until 10:30 PM, and that
he was standing in the cold the
entire time. Phoenix guesses
they were waiting for someone.
Now you need to present who he
was waiting for. Present
Regina's profile. Yes, Trilo
just exploded.

If Trilo was waiting for Regina,
whom he says he was, then he
easily wouldn't have cared who
else walked past him. He was
waiting to propose to her. Now
we're gonna hear a testimony
about the proposal. What the
hell.

--------------------------------
~Ben and Trilo's Testimony-About
the Proposal~
--------------------------------
-Don't be so surprised that I
 was going to propose to Regina!

-I even had something to give to
 her...

-I kept it in my pocket, waiting
 for the chance to propose and
 give it to
her.

-Of course, I also had it in my
 pocket that night. It was a
 present for
her.

-In the end, I wasn't able to
 give it to her, so I've still
 got it in my
pocket!

Press the second statement to
learn about what the present he
intended to give Regina is. It
was an engagement ring.
Franziska looks ticked off, and
even though pain=bad, choose to
"Push on anyway". Trilo's
testimony will change to this:

-I planned on giving an
 engagement ring to Regina...

There's something odd with the
testimony here. Remember the
ring you have in the Court
Record that says "From T to R"?
T may stand for Trilo and R for
Regina...and if that were true,
then YOU have the ring, now
Trilo. Present the Ring at the
last statement now. This only
works if the above line of
testimony gets added.

Phoenix says that Money the
Monkey likes to go after shiny
objects. Ben says that the ring
was stolen from him on the night
of the crime. It was stolen
right after Max showed up in the
plaza. The ring was taken around
that time. Trilo says that once
the ring was stolen he gave
chase after the monkey. Ben was
unable to catch up the Money and
couldn't retrieve the ring. This
proves one important point.
Choose "Ben's testimony has a
flaw."

Trilo said that he was in the
plaza up until the point which
the police arrived. However, he
just stated that he went chasing
after the monkey. There was
nobody watching the plaza at
this point, then. Now this means
that someone other than the
defendant could have been in the
plaza. Phoenix and Franziska
argue for a bit, then he'll
testify yet again.

--------------------------------
~Ben and Trilo's Testimony-
Witnessing Max~
--------------------------------
-I'll give you that I was
 waiting that night for Regina.

-But that doesn't change the
 fact that I saw Max in the
 plaza that night!

-He showed up after I had been
 waiting there for about five
 minutes.

-I said "good evening" to him,
 but he didn't even acknowledge
 my presence!

-I'm absolutely sure it was him!
 I saw Maximillion Galactica at
 the scene!!

-There's no way I could mistake
 someone wearing those three
 rediculous
symbols.

The contradiction is lying flat
out in the open, but it probably
isn't too obvious. Note that
Trilo said "good evening" to
what we think is Max. However,
we know that Ben and Trilo
severely dislike Max for one
major reason, especially on that
day. Present the Broken Bottle
at the fourth statement. A fight
with Max ensued in the
cafeteria, and Ben ended up
getting conked on the head with
a bottle. There's no way Trilo
would be so friendly at that
time of night.

Now you need to explain your
theory further. Choose "He saw a
different person". If Trilo had
really seen Max, there would
have been no greeting. Thusly,
the person he saw was not Max.
That's why he bothered to greet
this person. Now you need to
show who it was that Trilo saw
then. Present Russell Berry's
profile. That is why Trilo
greeted him, it was Russell he
saw, not Max. Now Trilo says he
thought it was Russell at first,
but then realized it was Max.

Trilo then says he clearly saw
the three symbols that make
Max's outfit. Finally Phoenix
says that somebody else could
have been dressing up as him.
Franziska says that the next
witness will be able to
determine who the one person
that Trilo saw really was. A
short recess will be taken. Save
the game.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 11:54 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max says that he didn't go
anywhere near the crime scene.
He still says that he was in the
ringmaster's room the entire
time. Now he admits that he went
to the ringmaster's room still
dressed in his usual outfit.
When he got to the room, though,
he took them off. This means
that the ringmaster could have
taken his costume, therefore
looking like Max. Then he says
that only silk hat was found at
the scene. What about his cloak
and his roses? There's nothing
else to describe now. Back to
court.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 3-3
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 12:06 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Moe is going to testify on what
he saw last night. Recall that
he did see the murder take
place. Ignore his first
testimony-it's a fake. The real
one comes after it. Don't miss
the Fresh Prince quote he says
before tesifying, though.

--------------------------------
~Moe the Clown's Testimony-What
You Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-The night of the murder, after
 practice was over, I went
 straight back to
my room.

-You have no idea how tired I
 was that night. I was pooped.

-I thought I'd go straight to
 sleep, but before I did, I
 glanced out the
window.

-That's when I saw two
 silhouettes! They were a bit
 far away though!

-It was the Ringmaster, and he
 was with Max, who was wearing
 his cloak!

-I kept watching them and, all
 of a sudden, Max clonked the
 Ringmaster
over the head.

The Judge warns you that
pressing Moe too hard will
result in useless chatter, and
tells you to refrain from doing
it. Bascially, you will lose
2/10ths of your health bar for
each bad press. Don't screw
around with Moe. Start off by
pressing the third statement
where he says he glanced out of
the window. Be sure to "Keep
pressing" even though Moe keeps
dodging the question at hand.
Phoenix then says that Moe said
yesterday he heard a loud noise,
and looks out of the window at
that time. Moe then rebutts
saying he forgot about that. Moe
looked out of the window because
of the loud sound, not because
he felt like it. This line of
testimony will change to this:

-I heard a huge noise outside
 the window, and that's what
 made me take a
look outside...

You'll need this for later. Now
press the next statement where
he says he saw two figures
outside. Moe says the figures
were about 30 feet away from his
bedroom window. It was snowing
that night, so visibility was
low. Press the final statement
now about Max hitting Russell on
the head with a weapon. Moe is
also unaware of what the murder
weapon is. You will start to
demand knowing if he saw the
murder or not, and Franziska
will pop in saying you better
have a good reason for harassing
him. Tell her that "Of course I
do!" when asked if you have
proof he didn't see the crime.

The reason is Moe's own
testimony. There's a great flaw,
though. Moe said he heard a
great thumping noise, and also
said that he saw Max hit the
ringmaster with the murder
weapon. There's no way he could
have heard the sound, then
looked out of the window to see
the murder. Now he says that
when he looked out of the
window, the ringmaster was
already lying face down in the
snow. Franziska helped fill in
the gaps in his statements.

Moe goes on to say that although
he didn't see the actual crime,
he did see the murderer. He saw
someone silhouette next to the
ringmaster's dead body. He's
gonna testify again on this
matter.

--------------------------------
~Moe the Clown's Testimony-The
Silhouette~
--------------------------------
-I was a bit far away, but that
 shadow could only have belonged
 to Max.

-There's no doubting it.
 Especially since I saw his
 uppity symbols.

-His silk hat. That black cloak.
 They were all there!

-His face was still silhouetted,
 but there was no doubt that it
 was him.

-His cloak was fluttering in the
 wind, so I couldn't really see
 what he
was carrying.

Phoenix says it's not enough to
just prove Moe was wrong, but
suspicion that someone else
could have committed the murder
must be made. The contradiction
in his testimony is lying quite
visible, but it's not likely
you'd think of it right away. At
Moe's third statement he
mentions two of Max's symbols.
However, he has three. He's
missing the white roses. Present
the Max G. Promo Poster here.
Franziska tries saying that it's
not really important-it's just
one symbol he forgot to mention.

Moe then says that there weren't
any roses on the person he saw.
Despite it being dark out, the
white roses would have stuck out
well. There's no way he could
have missed them. Franziska then
says they must have falled off
at the crime scene. However,
they would have been found if
that had happened. Remember that
Trilo said that he saw all three
symbols, but Moe just now says
he saw two. This is a clear
contradiction to what Moe has
just said. The Judge is nearly
ready to call a verdict, but he
still has some doubt left. Moe
will testify one last time.

--------------------------------
~Moe the Clown's Testimony-The
Silhouette, Part 2~
--------------------------------
-There's no doubt in my mind!
 There were no white roses that
 night!

-However, all of the other
 symbols were there...I'm
 equally sure of that.

-Especially the silk hat! There
 is no way I could forget seeing
 the
decorations on it!

-He was wearing it the entire
 time that he was on the scene!

If you press any statement, like
the Judge warned you not to, you
will get severely penalized. The
contradiction is lying out in
the open once again. On the
final statement, he says Max was
wearing his silk hat the entire
time. However, it ended up on
the ground. Thusly, he must have
dropped it at some point.
Present the Silk Hat here.
There's no way he could have
been wearing it the entire time
if it was found at the crime
scene.

Moe then goes on in frantic
outbursts, insulting the Judge
several times that his own
eyesight is perfectly fine and
that he did see Max. Then he
says that he left the scene
wearing his silk hat still.
Phoenix asks just how exactly
the murderer left the scene. Moe
says that all he did was turn
and walk away. Now you need to
present proof that Moe is wrong
on how the criminal left the
scene. Present the Crime Photo.

The only footprint here are of
Russell Berry. There's no traces
of anyone else's footprints.
Phoenix demands that all of
Moe's testmonies be erased due
to complete unreliability. Moe
then says he's finally ready to
tell the truth. Then he says
Franziska was really the one
that formed his testimonies, but
he's ready to come clean now.

--------------------------------
~Moe the Clown's Testimony-The
Truth~
--------------------------------
-Now it's time for our next
 segment, "Moe Knows".

-Everything I have said up until
 now has been the truth!

-When I looked out of the
 window, the Ringmaster was
 down, and Max was
standing above him.

-He was not wearing his roses,
 but he was wearing the silk
 hat!

-Now, this is the best bit.
 That's when I saw him...fly
 through the air!

-He flew right off and
 disappeared into the darkness!

-That's why there were no
 footprints. Flying criminals
 don't leave
footprints.

Before you cros examine the
Judge will ask your opinion on
his wierd testimony. Choose "His
eyes are playing tricks". It
doesn't really matter since the
Judge is tired of this useless
story telling by Moe. The main
thing you must find tonight is
why there were no footprints on
the scene.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 2:33 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max demands to know what is
happening. Then he says that
he's never actually flying when
on stage, rather invisible wires
are attached to him to give him
that appearence. The only chance
you have now is to find and
catch the real criminal. Save
the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 3-4
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-December 29, 3:03 PM
Location-Wright & Co. Law
Offices
--------------------------------
Maya admits that she's horrible
at figuring out magic tricks.
She goes on to say that Pearl
showed her a magic trick once
and she was totally dumbfounded.
She pulled the classic "pull the
thumb off" gag. Phoenix then
does the trick as well and Maya
seems stupified. Again. Talk
about "What to do" now. Maya
isn't so sure that the criminal
really flew off through the air.
Now ask about "Any ideas".
Although Max is a total ass,
Maya doesn't think that's enough
to frame a murder on him. Eh,
we're totally lost here. Head
back to the circus.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Circus Entrance
--------------------------------
When you arrive you overhear two
people arguing. Ben and Trilo
are busy practicing their
singing. They're trying to sing
as a new round for their
ventrilquist act. Eh. Maya hands
back the ring to Trilo. Talk
about "Today's trial" now. They
say that they thought they saw
the ringmaster at first, but
realized it was Max. If he
wasn't wearing his symbols that
would have assumed it was the
ringmaster. Ask about "Marriage"
next.

Trilo says he's just waiting for
Regina to come by to propose to
her. Now ask about
"Ventriloquism". Trilo seems
pumped to take the ventriloquist
act around the world. He says he
wants to win the Grand Prix
next, and Maya says the he's the
doll now, man. Head over to
Lodging House.

-----------------------------
Date-December 29
Location-Lodging House; Plaza
-----------------------------
You'll meet Gumshoe here.
Phoenix was right in assuming
Franziska would force him to
listen to Moe's jokes for a long
time. He says he doesn't want to
backwhip Franziska since she's
always got her eyes on them. He
says the she is directly above
you right now. She is in Acro's
room at the moment, since the
criminal would have to have
flown into or past it as Moe put
it. Gumshoe says not to get any
ideas of going up there.
Shouldn't get involved near
Franziska, that's for sure. You
can't enter his room right now,
and you should flat out stay
away from it anyways. For now,
head back to the cafeteria.

---------------------------
Date-December 29
Location-Big Top; Cafeteria
---------------------------
You will meet up with Moe when
you enter the cafeteria. He
seems to be in a good mood
despite what happened in court
earlier today. Ask Moe about
"Today's trial". He says that it
was tough for him because he
wasn't able to make anyone
laugh. He seems really ticked
off nobody is laughing at his
jokes. Now ask about "What you
witnessed". He is positive that
he saw someone float through the
air. Since no Psyche Locks
appeared he must be telling the
truth about this. Now that we
know this, head back to Max.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Max says that a TV crew appeared
a little while ago, saying that
he should be getting his own TV
special. They are calling it a
prison escape, actually. He
mornfully says he can't do it
before he gets an aquittal,
though, as that'd just hurt his
chances of getting a not guilty
verdict. He asks you to hurry up
and get him out of here. Ask
about "Night of the murder". He
goes back over the events once
more. At the time of the murder,
he was sitting in the
ringmaster's room. Flying off
into the sky is something he
can't do at will.

Now ask about "Today's trial".
Maya asks why he can't be
friends with the other
performers. He says that the
other performers aren't full of
ambition and that is why he
doesn't like them as much. Now
ask about the "Grand Prix". He
holds up a picture of him
winning the International Grand
Prix, and this picture is also
in color. Whoa. He asks you to
show the picture to the other
performers. GRAND PRIX PHOTO
will be added to the Court
Record. Head to the Cafeteria
for another talk with Moe.

---------------------------
Date-December 29
Location-Big Top; Cafeteria
---------------------------
Present the Grand Prix Photo to
Moe. Moe says that he's seen
this picture before. He also
says that Max showed him his
bust, and that it was really big
too. Max pretty much made them
all worship his enormous bust.
Now talk about "Max's Bust"
since we should figure out what
the hell a bust is to begin
with. Moe says that the bust
should be on the table nearby.
It isn't, and Moe says that
about five days ago the bust
disappeared. MAX G. BUST will be
added to the Court Record. He
also mentions that one thing
here is slightly different. Ask
about "What's changed".

On the morning of the crime, a
piece of paper was posted on the
bullitin board. It was torn, so
only the title is visible. It
reads "To the Murderer". NOTE
will be added to the Court
Record. Now you need to find the
other half of this piece of
paper. Head to the Detention
Center again.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Present the Note you just
recieved to Max. He knows all
about this note. When head read
it for the first time, his heart
jumped a bit. While enjoying his
morning tea, the ringmaster and
company entered the room. When
he read the note, his face
turned real red. He tore the
note off the wall and stuck it
into the pocket of his tailcoat.
He isn't going to spoil what is
on the note for you. Head back
to the Ringmaster's Room.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-Big
Top; Ringmaster's Room
--------------------------------
Examine the black coat at the
back of the room once again.
Remember the piece of paper
stuck in it? You will finally
get to read what is on this
note. The piece of paper here
indeed is the other half of the
ripped note. The note reads "I
have conclusive evidence of what
took place. Meet at 10 PM
tonight at the lodging house
plaza." That's the time the
murder took place. NOTE will be
updated in the Court Record. Now
we just need to find out who
wrote that note and we should be
able to pinpoint the murderer
from there. Head back to the
Lodging Plaza now.

-----------------------------
Date-December 29
Location-Lodging House, Plaza
-----------------------------
Gumshoe says that he is done
with his investigation for now.
He then hear's a strange sound.
Anytime that irritating sound is
heard, Franziska isn't too far
behind. Gumshoe thinks it's a
best idea to run away, and he
does just that. Franziska
appears soon after whipping Maya
from a distance. She says that
tomorrow will finally be the day
that she defeats the almighty
Phoenix Wright.

Talk about "Tomorrow's trial".
She says she has conclusive
evidence and a conclusive
witness. There's not much else
to the story. She is, of course,
referring to the acrobat. Now
ask about "Revenge". She says
that her revenge on you isn't
actually just to destroy you.
It's actually to get somebody
else back. Phoenix is just a
small roadblock. She's talking
about Miles Edgeworth. Now ask
about "Miles Edgeworth". It was
Karma who trained him to be a
prosecutor in the first place.
Miles was like a little brother
to Franziska. After the fourth
case from the previous game,
Edgeworth vanished. Franziska
accuses Phoenix that it's his
fault he is gone.

Now ask about "Edgeworth's
death". After the case,
Edgeworth seemed traumatized and
got worse each day. He never
came back to court. One day, he
just vanished. All he left was a
note that said "Prosecutor Miles
Edgeworth chooses death."
Franziska doesn't buy it,
though. She's still sure he's
alive somewhere. Phoenix must
have killed his inner
prosecutional skills. There's
nothing left here. Head up to
Acro's Room.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-
Lodging Hall 3rd Floor; Acro's
Room
--------------------------------
The odd looking man you meet
says he is Ken Dingling, or Acro
as most people here call him.
Acro says that he performs
mainly on the tightrope and
whatnot, but for a while all
he's been performing in is his
wheelchair. Talk to him about
"Berry Big Circus". When Acro
was a kid, his parents failed at
business. They just ran away
from it all, leaving Acro and
his brother. The ringmaster was
willing to take in the kids. He
was a lifesaver to Acro. He says
he wanted to find a way to repay
him, but now that's impossible
since he's been killed. Maya
says that Regina is truly a
princess, but Acro thinks
otherwise.

Now ask about the "Wheelchair".
The nerves in his legs were
badly damaged, and is stuck to
his wheelchair now. He lives on
the third floor of the building,
so he can't even leave by
himself. He won't go any further
when three Psyche Locks appear
on him. His injury clearly
wasn't related to an acrobatic
accident. He injured himself six
months ago. Now ask about "What
happened".

He says he wasn't in his room
yesterday because he was in the
hospital. He wasn't sure if the
murder was real or not before
going to the hospital. Now ask
further with "What you
witnessed". He looked out of his
window the night before when he
heard a loud noise, and saw Max
flying straight up into the air.
That isn't going to help us at
all. Head back to the Big Top.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Big Top
--------------------------------
Regina will appear again to stop
the bear from eating Phoenix.
She was hoping to teach someone
a lesson, but ended up with
Phoenix instead of who she was
looking for. Talk to her about
"Russell Berry". She says that
she feel's lonely that she won't
be able to see him for a while.
She seems like one really messed
up girl. Ask about "Money the
Monkey" next.

She says she wanted to teach him
a lesson because he is so mean.
Turns out that Money stole one
of her stage costumes. She asks
if you see the costume to
retrieve it for her. Answer any
of the choices, it doesn't
matter at all. Now, present the
Note.

Regina says she knows what that
is since it was in her pocket
for a while. She noticed it was
there around breakfast. She goes
to Acro's room each morning to
give him his breakfast, take out
the trash, then heads to the
cafeteria herself to eat
breakfast. Since she figured
she's not a murderer, she
thought it belonged to someone
else. She thought someone should
know about it and stuck it up
onto the bulletin board. NOTE
will be updated in the Court
Record now. Head back to Moe's
Room now.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-
Lodging Hall 1st Floor; Moe's
Room
--------------------------------
Moe isn't here right now, but
someone else is. Money is in the
room, and he's holding Regina's
dress that she told you to get
for her. Now you need to figure
out how to get the monkey's
attention. Choose "Give it back,
Monkey-brain!" Money will run
away while Phoenix tries to have
a man-to-man talk with the
monkey, but Phoenix will swipe
the dress away from him when
he's distracted.

STAGE COSTUME will be added to
the Court Record. Head back over
to the Big Top to give this to
Regina.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-Berry
Big Circus; Big Top
--------------------------------
Present the Stage Costume you
just found. She says that the
costume wasn't actually hers, it
was Leon's. Now ask about
"Leon". She says Leon was killed
because he did something bad
during practice. She mentions
that when Leon was opening his
mouth, she would stick her head
into his mouth. During one
practice session, Leon bit
someone. LEON will be added to
the Court Record.

We need to have another
discussion with Moe. He still
knows something quite important
to this case. Head back to the
Cafeteria.

---------------------------
Date-December 29
Location-Big Top; Cafeteria
---------------------------
What's that smell?
It's...burgers! Moe turns out to
be cooking up some burgers right
now. What is it with Maya and
other various people with crazy
burger fetishes? Talk about the
"Berry Big Circus" now. Turns
out when Acro found out about
the murder he was quite livid.
He was so upset he hardly felt
like living anymore. Moe has
been thinking that he should
just quit his job while he has
the chance. He's thinking he
should try replacing the
ringmaster. Max would still be
an issue to work with, though,
but it is hard to argue with his
importance. He admits that many
things he says are true, that he
is the reason the circus is so
lively. He's hoping that
everyone could just get over the
tradjety.

Ask about "Get over it?" and Moe
says yes to when Maya guesses
he's talking about Russell's
death. Two Psyche Locks appear
over him now. He says a small
accident occured six months ago.
He thinks everyone should just
get over the accident, but he
makes it seem that the topic of
it is brought up every now and
then. Present the Magatama.

--------------------------------
~Moe the Clown's Magatama
Secret-Get Over It?~
--------------------------------
Phoenix asks what happened six
months ago that is so important.
Phoenix thinks he knows
something about the accident.
You need to present the cause of
the accident. Present Leon (he's
in the Court Record). Leon did
something during his
performance, and that is what
this accident must be a cause
of. One of the locks will
shatter.

Moe told Regina many times that
she should have Leon do so many
dangerous things during
performances. Putting heads into
Leon's mouth was all part of the
act. Regina believed in Leon,
and Russell believed in Regina,
so he kept going along with it.
Moe promised not to tell who was
bitten during the accident. He
mentions someone else was
involved in this accident, too.
You need to present who it is
made Moe promise not to tell
anything. Present Acro's
profile. Moe is ready to tell
the truth, as he thinks now this
accident may help figure out who
the murderer is. The second lock
will break off. Now ask about
"Get over it?"

He says it would have been
better off if someone had died
during the accident. When the
person was bitten, he suffered
major brain damage. The man will
never recover from the coma he
is in. All he does is lie in a
hospital bed, nothing more. This
man is related to Acro because
it is his brother. Bat was
Acro's brother, and he was
bitten and sent into a coma. Now
ask about "Acro's brother".

Sean Dingling is Acro's brother,
but everyone calls him Bat. He
also fell in love with Regina,
and that was his downfall.
During a practice session six
months ago, Bat said he wanted
to perform with Leon. This is
what caused the accident. When
Leon bit down, he seemed to have
been similing. The police were
never informed of this incident,
as the circus was afraid of
being shut down if they were
notified. The next day, Russell
shot Leon dead with his rifle.

Maya sneezes on the pepper
shaker you have, and Moe
comments that Regina has a
similar sneeze. Turns out Bat
would always tease Regina with
pepper. Head back to Acro's Room
for the last bit of information
you need.

--------------------------------
Date-December 29 Location-
Lodging Hall 3rd Floor; Acro's
Room
--------------------------------
Acro seems to know why Phoenix
is back so soon. He's still
thinking about what he's hiding
when you asked about his
wheelchair. Present the Magatama
so we can find out.

--------------------------------
~Acro's Magatama Secret-About
the Wheelchair~
--------------------------------
Acro says once again that the
cause of his accident was while
training for an acrobatic
routine. However, if this was
the case he would have no reason
to keep it a secret. You need to
present the real cause of his
injury. Present the picture of
Leon. Six months ago he was
attacked by the lion, and that's
how he ended up in the
wheelchair. The first lock will
break. Phoenix thinks that he
didn't actually get attacked,
but had to fight it to save
someone's life. Present Bat's
profile. The second lock will
shatter when confronted with the
facts.

Moe did say that the team of
Acro and Bat were cut down at
the same time. They were injured
in the same accident. Acro says
it wasn't anyone's fault,
though. You need to present
someone whom he doesn't like
very much. Present Regina's
profile. Acro always seems calm
until the subject comes to
Regina. Regina and Bat were good
friends back at the time. You
need to present proof of why
Acro has hated Regina for so
long. Present the Note. Acro
must have written the note and
put it in her pocket. The final
lock will break. Now, finally
ask about the "Wheelchair".

His legs were injured by Leon.
Six months ago, Bat had a dare
with Regina. Bat said if he
could put his head inside Leon's
mouth like Regina does, she'd
have to go out with him on a
date. They figured that since
Leon was old he wouldn't attack
somebody else who put their head
into his mouth. However, that
wasn't the case here. When Leon
chomped on his head, Acro ran
towards him. Leon attacked Acro
and that's how he ended up this
way.

Bat is still in a coma. He went
to the hospital yesterday to
visit him, hoping one day he'll
open his eyes again. Now ask
about "Regina and Bat". Both
were great friends. Acro also
hands you a scarf that Bat was
wearing when he was attacked.
It's covered in blood. The scarf
was a present from Regina on the
day of the attack. Leon looked
to be smiling when he chomped on
Bat. Franziska appears and
demands that you hand over the
scarf. Acro then leaves with
Franziska as he'll be the final
witness to appear tomorrow.
Hopefully this case will all
make sense soon. Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 3-5
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-December 30, 9:41 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max says he's pretty nervous
before coming into court today.
Regina appears to bring him a
carton of milk. Moe told Regina
that she should come to the
trial to watch it. Regina
clearly doesn't understand how a
trial works since she still
thinks that Max will be putting
on a performance. After a small
morale boost, Regina heads off
to the audience. Moe then
appears with another carton of
milk. Moe is pretty sure that
Acro is the real criminal as
well. He's used to putting his
life on the line, Moe warns you.
Moe also says that Regina is
here to hopefully understand the
reality of what happened to her
father. Time for trial.

--------------------------------
Date-December 30, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Franziska opens up by saying she
wants to revise her recent
theories on the events of the
murder. They have discovered a
new witness, one that says he
saw Max fly off from the scene
of the crime. An explaination
for how Max was able to fly that
night will be proven. Gumshoe
was even forced to provide a
mockup of how such an even could
occur. Acro will be called to
the stand.

--------------------------------
~Acro's Testimony-What You
Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-It was just after 10:00 PM, and
 I was resting in my bed.

-Around that time, I heard a
 large "THUMP" noise from
 outside the window.

-Then a few moments later, I saw
 someone...Flying...Right by my
 window.

-It was Max Galactica...I only
 saw him from behind, but that's
 who it
looked like.

-To be honest, when I saw that,
 I thought I was dreaming...

This testimony matches up quite
similar to what Moe said
yesterday. You will need to
press for the hard facts. Press
the fourth statement when he
mentions he saw Max Galactica
from behind. Phoenix will
confirm that the lights in his
room were shut off. Despite them
being off, he was still able to
see Max. Acro says that the
safety lights were on, and that
was enough to enable him to see
the silhouette of Max. Although
he couldn't see the white roses
this way, he says he did see the
silk hat and the cloak around
his body. Phoenix will think
something was wrong with that
statement. Choose "There is a
contradiction".

This happened yesterday so you
probably already have realized
it. Max's hat was on the ground.
Therefore, he couldn't have been
wearing it when he was flying
past Acro's window. Acro thinks
that is actually the
ringmaster's hat, not Max's.
Clearly Acro has been lying
about this the entire time. Now
Franziska will demand that you
back up this statement
explaining why Acro would lie in
court right now. Answer "Acro is
the real culprit".

Phoenix will accuse Acro of
murdering Russell now, and
Franziska actually finds this
amusing. She then points to Acro
who is still very calm and
collected. If he was the real
murderer, he'd probably be
panicing right now. Acro then
says that he can't even move out
of his wheelchair, so he easily
couldn't have done the murder.
Or so he says. Franziska says
she had proof that Acro is
disabled, so now she thinks you
will call out that he had an
accomplice. Choose "Of course he
didn't".

Phoenix exclaims that Acro
planned and executed the murder
all on his own. Now the Judge
will say that if this is true,
Acro being the murderer, then
his testimony is all lies. He'll
ask you to point out where Acro
was then during the murder.
Point to his own room. Acro
wasn't able to leave the room by
himself, so the only
explaination is that he
committed the murder from his
room. Acro then says that it's
an interesting, but impossible,
theory. The Judge also backs up
his claim by reminding you he's
in a wheelchair.

Acro then asks how you think he
killed Russell. If he couldn't
leave his room he couldn't have
worn Max's costume. The Judge
will ask if you have an
explaination as to how Acro
could have killed Russell.
Choose to "Present evidence".
Now you need to show what we
think is the murder weapon.
Present the Max G. Bust. The
bust itself is actually quite
heavy. Heavy enough to ensure
death, especially if dropped
from a third story window.
Franziska then says that there's
no way that Acro could have
wheeled his chair around with
such a heavy bust in it. Phoenix
says that he has a strong enough
body to carry the bust. Acro
isn't able to refute your
statements, so clearly we're
getting somewhere.

Acro will be forced to testify
about his current handicapped
condition, a testimony Phoenix
thinks is just a stall for time.

--------------------------------
~Acro's Testimony-Acro's
Physical State~
--------------------------------
-I supposed I could have lifted
 something the size of the bust.

-I have a strong upper body from
 working as an acrobat, and only
 my legs
were injured.

-However, lifting the bust and
 looking out of the window
 would've been
impossible.

-There's no way I could have
 exerted that kind of force on
 my lower body.

-That makes it impossible for me
 to have known the location of
 the
Ringmaster's head.

-Thus it would be unrealistic
 for me to drop the bust on him.
 Don't you
think?

The Judge agrees that trying to
exert such a force would lead to
more injuries on his body.
Phoenix will still examine
nonetheless. Pressing won't get
you anywhere in this testimony
as the contradiction can already
be spotted. At the fifth
statement, where he says it
would have been impossible to
see the ringmaster's head, it
actually wasn't with some help.
Present the Wooden Box here.

Acro didn't need to lean out of
the window because he already
knew where the ringmaster was
going to be ahead of time. Quite
precisely, actually. Phoenix
will bring out the picture of
Russell leaning over the box.
The question is-who placed the
box there? When Ben and Trilo
saw the ringmaster, they didn't
see any box. This means that the
wooden box was already placed at
the scene of the crime. The
moment the bust came falling
down was the moment that the
ringmaster picked up the box.

This all makes it clear. If the
bust were to fall at the point
marked by the wooden box, there
would be no possible chance of
it missing the victim. The Judge
will then ask who placed the
wooden box at the scene. Phoenix
says it was Acro himself. He had
a rope to help himself lower the
box to that point. Franziska
then says that the ringmaster's
head could have been anywhere at
that point. That's why the box
was specially made. You need to
choose its special feature.
Choose "The weight of the box".
According to the Court Record it
is over 20 pounds. The only way
most people could have picked up
the box is if they squatted down
to pick it up. The box is large
and has carrying handles, making
the head placement of the person
who was picking up the box easy
to determine.

Acro still won't admit to what
we think is his crime yet. He
still says that even if he
wanted to do those events, he
couldn't. He will ask if you
remember the original location
of the bust. Choose "I
remember". It was in the
cafeteria, on a table. The big
question now is how would Acro
have gotten the bust from the
cafeteria to his room? He can't
leave his room by himself. Now
you must show how the bust made
its way from the cafeteria to
Acro. Present Money the Monkey.
Acro never ordered the monkey to
steal the bust, he took it with
his own free will.

Franziska says that the bust
isn't shiny at all, since it's
mostly bronze. The cards,
however, were the shiny part of
the bust. Acro admits that Money
is capable of holding the heavy
bust. Franziska says that the
current location of the bust is
still unknown. If the monkey
didn't steal the bust, though,
then what? Or, perhaps the bust
was used as the murder weapon by
accident. One fact has been
proven, though, and that is Acro
has the ability to kill the
ringmaster. Franziska says again
that Max was still scene at the
crime location. She then asks
the clown saw the murderer. You
must present who it was. Present
the Max G. Bust.

Franziska says she demanded a
picture of the person, not some
useless piece of evidence.
However, Moe said he saw Max's
silhouette. However, what he
didn't see was a person at all.
What Moe actually saw that night
was Max's bust. There's no
reason why Max's cloak couldn't
have been attached to the bust,
and this would give it the
appearence that it looks just
like Max. It also shows why the
white roses weren't visible. Now
you must show who put the cloak
on the bust. Present Russell
Berry's profile. Russell didn't
actually "put" the cloak on the
bust.

Phoenix describes the scene
again. Acro lowered a rope with
the wooden box attached. Then he
attached the bust to the rope
and dangled the bust outside of
his window, directly over the
box. At the same time, Max was
told to wait in the ringmaster's
room by Russell. At the time,
the ringmaster was wearing Max's
cloak. Perhaps it was to stay
hidden that night. However, he
was spotted by Ben and Trilo,
much to his demise. When the
ringmaster got over to the
scene, he bent over to pick up
the wooden box, and that's when
Acro let go of the rope and let
the bust his Russell.

At the instant the bust hit the
victim, the cloak flew off of
Russell and landed on the bust.
Franziska stops you, saying this
is absurd. Phoenix continues on
anyways. That's the sound Moe
heard and he looked out of the
window. The crime being
committed, Acro lifted up the
bust back to his room. He had no
idea Moe saw this, though. That
is how the cloak managed to fly
into the sky.

Franziska now demands proof that
your absurd story is true. There
is still something unusual about
Moe's eyewitness account. A
contradiction, rather, about the
facts we know and what he said.
The Judge wants hard proof that
this is what happened. Present
the Silk Hat once again. The
problem lies within Max's three
symbols. The hat, cloak, and
roses. A Silk Hat was found at
the crime scene, but Moe said he
saw the murderer flee with the
silk hat still on him. The "silk
hat" Moe saw must have been the
bust instead. However, that was
just one of two contradictions
found.

When the cloak snagged onto the
bust, what happened to the white
roses? This means the the roses
would have to have landed on the
back of the bust to not be
visible. This is why Moe didn't
see them. Acro then says that
Phoenix is a bit off track here.
Acro is missing a motive for his
actions. There's no way he would
want to kill the ringmaster. A
short break will occur now. Save
the game.

--------------------------------
Date-December 30, 2:17 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max is pretty sure now that it
is Acro who is trying to pin the
murder on himself. Max then gets
angry at Acro for trying to do
this to him. Gumshoe then
appears, angry that you're
ignoring him. Turns out Gumshoe
was able to bring the scarf
which Franziska confiscated
yesterday. Gumshoe isn't willing
to tell you how or why he
brought it here, and says to
keep it a secret. He then says
something from a prosecutor
saying "Judgment comes at the
very last moment". Huh. Back to
court now.

--------------------------------
Date-December 30, 2:27 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 2
--------------------------------
Franziska wants Acro to continue
to testify about his
relationship with the
ringmaster, and orders you to
provide proof he had a motive.

--------------------------------
~Acro's Testimony-About the
Ringmaster~
--------------------------------
-When we were little, we were
 abondoned by our parents.

-That's when the Ringmaster of
 the Berry Big Circus, Russell
 Berry, took
us in.

-I became an acrobat at around
 nine years old.

-I wanted to find a way to repay
 to Ringmaster. That was my sole
 purpose
in life...

Make sure you choose "Of course
I'll cross-examine" when
thinking if Acro ever had a
motive. Press the first
statement to find out that the
second person Acro is talking
about is, of course, Bat. Now
press the second statement to
find out that Acro thought of
the ringmaster as a father.
Press the third statement to
find out that since he was in
such great shape when he was
little, he became an acrobat.
Now press the final statement.
Nothing good will happen since
Franziska's whipping will stop
you short of asking questions.

The Judge says that no matter
what he says, it seems Acro has
no reason to have killed Russell
Berry. Now the Judge will ask
what the motive to kill the
ringmaster was. He'll ask if you
can explain it. Choose "I can't
provide one" on the basis that
he never intended to kill the
ringmaster in the first place.

Phoenix says that the ringmaster
wasn't the target of Acro that
night. He never intended to kill
Russell Berry. Franziska will
demand to know who the hell Acro
did intend to kill instead that
night. Present Regina's profile.
Phoenix says Acro was really
aiming for her that night.
Franziska starts going ballistic
at this, and now demands proof
why Acro would want to kill
Regina. Present the Note you
found earlier.

Acro goes silent when you
present the Note. He wrote the
note, which is ironically titled
"To the murderer". It was a
calling of someone to the plaza
at 10:00 PM. The note wasn't
intended to bring Russell Berry
to the plaza. The note was
placed inside Regina's pocket,
and was intended for her. Regina
didn't think the note was for
her, so she put it on the
cafeteria bulletin board. That's
when her father read the note.
Russell Berry unknowningly went
in place of Regina. He was
killed because of this mistake.

Acro even said earlier that he
couldn't have looked out of the
window if he really did lower
the bust. This theory would make
that situation even more
realistic because Acro couldn't
see the person he was killing.
Acro thought it was Regina who
was in the plaza, and that's
when he dropped the bust.
Franziska objects, asking about
the line in the note saying "I
have conclusive evidence of what
took place." She says that if
that is in the note, Regina
would be a murderer.

Phoenix thinks that the
ringmaster knew what this note
meant and that's why he went to
the plaza, in place of his
daughter. The Judge will ask
what the incident six months ago
was. Choose "I know all about
it". This incident directly
involves this case now. You will
now be forced to present just
what the conclusive evidence the
note is referring to. Present
the Small Seasoning Bottle you
haven't used yet. No joke, this
is the evidence Acro was
planning to use. The victim
would take away the wooden box
and discover the conclusive
evidence inside. Now, Franziska
will demand you say who Regina's
intended victim was.

Present Bat's profile. Bat has
been in a coma for six months.
Acro probably feels that his
brother is as good as dead,
though. Bat was bit by Regina's
lion six months earlier.
Franziska says there's no way
Regina would ever willingly kill
somebody. She says he was the
victim of an accident rather
than a planned murder. Maya will
ask if this was all an accident
or not. Choose "It was more than
that." The lion biting Bat
wasn't an accident whatsoever.

While Regina wouldn't willingly
hurt somebody, she is
responsible for making the lion
injure Bat. You need to present
evidence to back up this claim.
Present the Scarf that Gumshoe
managed to give to you several
minutes ago. That scarf was
something that Bat used to wear.
Regina was the one who gave it
to him. There is more than just
some blood stains on the scarf,
however. Pepper was found on the
scarf. Regina gave the scarf to
Bat just before the accident.
She covered the scarf with a ton
of pepper beforehand.

Franziska then asks again if the
lion was seen to be smiling
before biting down on Bat. Leon
wasn't smiling, he was actually
sneezing. He never really did
bite down on Bat, but instead
sneezed due to all of the pepper
Regina stuffed onto the scarf.
at lost conciousness soon
afterwards. Acro nearly lost Bat
to this accident.

Franziska still thinks this is a
mere joke. Acro tried to get his
revenge on the one person who
did this to him-Regina. Acro
says he's impressed by Phoenix's
imagination. Acro hints at the
fact everything Phoenix just
admitted is true. However, it
isn't enough to frame Acro of
murder. Not yet, at least. He
brings up the topic of the bust
again. There is no evidence that
proves this claim. The location
of the bust is still a mystery.
The Judge thinks that if Acro's
room was searched and a bloody
bust was found, that would be
all the conclusive evidence he
would need to make a verdict.
You have two choices now. Choose
to "See how things work out
first". Searching Acro's room
would get you nowhere since he
probably assumed that would be
done. He must have hidden the
bust elsewhere.

Franziska says that Acro's room
was thoroughly searched
yesterday, and no bust was
found. The location of the
murder weapon is still a
mystery. Also, to ensure he
didn't hide it, the search was a
complete surprise and Acro was
taken to the prosecutor's office
soon afterwards. Maya thinks the
location of the bust right now
should be known. Just before the
Judge ends this all, Maya steps
in to declare you need a second
to prepare the last bit of
evidence. Now you must declare
where the bust is right now.
Choose "Somewhere in this
courtroom".

That's not enough info, though.
The Judge will ask where the
bust is in the courtroom. Choose
"The witness chair". Acro is
asked to remove the blanket on
his chair. The possibility that
the bust is being hidden under
that blanket seems quite likely,
as he doesn't even need that
blanket. It was incovienent for
Acro to be unable to hide the
bust elsewhere since he can't
leave his room. The only place
he could have hid it was under
his wheelchair. He says he's
been bagged by the real pro
here, Phoenix.

He finally comes clean. He asks
why the timing for the surprise
search was last night. He says
he burned the cloak and threw
the ashes out in the trash. He
obviously couldn't throw away
the bust. The best he could do
when the search was warranted
was to hide the bust. Hiding it
under his wheelchair was his
only choice. There is nothing he
could do when called to court
with the weapon in hand. He also
thinks Franziska had this all
figured out to begin with when
she searched the room. She says
that if she didn't order the
search of the room, she would
have easily gotten her verdict.

Acro admits to killing Russell.
He explains the story of how how
Regina put pepper on his scarf,
which made Leon bite him. Acro
couldn't forgive what she did to
him, and Regina joked about how
bat became a star when word got
out he was bitten. So much so
that Acro was so drastic to
attempt killing her. He wanted
to kill himself, then decided it
would be best to try living and
pin the murder on Max. And thus,
the case has finally been
resolved. There's nothing left
to do but bask in the glory that
Franziska von Karma has been
defeated by Phoenix. Twice.
Owned her there.

--------------------------------
Date-December 30, 4:27 PM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 5
--------------------------------
Max is happy that he was found
innocent. Moe comes over to
congratulate Max on getting
found not guilty. Moe says not
to worry too much about Acro as
there isn't anything that can be
done now. Regina comes in
crying, though. She's a bit
distressed at how this whole
incident was her fault to begin
with. She's worried that
everyone is going to split up
now that half of the circus gang
is gone. Regina asks if Acro has
plans to get revenge on her.
Choose "I don't think so." When
she asks for evidence, present
Bat's profile. Acro didn't want
to get caught because he wanted
to see Bat when he awoke from
his coma. She says she'll take
the place of Acro in the
hospital now and will go see Bat
until he finally wakes up. Moe
decides he'll be the new
ringmaster, and Max decides to
finally stay. And so ends this
chapter.

Before the case ends, the screen
turns black and someone is
talking. The mysterious man asks
how the case went, where Gumshoe
states that the previous day's
search really paid off. He asks
if the man really had it all
figured out, to which he
responds it was only a theory
that only "him", referring to
the defense attorney for the
case, would ever figure out. The
scene will cut to an airport,
and Edgeworth wil be seen as the
one on the other end of the
phone. He says he'll be making a
stop at the prosecutor's
office...

================================
    ~8.Episode Four-Farewell, My
    Turnabout~
================================
The intro cutscene starts off by
questioning who will be this
year's Grand Prix Champion. The
camera pans downwards to where
all of the contestants are, all
in costumes. The hinted at
winner is the Jammin' Ninja,
sporting a purple costume. Then
some guy drops down onto the
stage, calling himself the
Nickel Samurai. He's awarded the
prize. Just who are these people
and what do they have to do with
this case?

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 4-1
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 20, 7:42 PM Location-
Gatewater Hotel; Viola Hall
--------------------------------
Back in the Gatewater Hotel
again, Maya greets you and asks
if you saw the Nickel Samurai
win the contest. Will Powers,
the former Steel Samurai, is
also here with you guys. Pearl
is also here, however due to
Morgan never allowing her to
watch TV back at home she has no
idea who the Steel or Nickel
Samurai's in question are. Maya
fills in for Phoenix by saying
that he hates these kids shows,
which is obviously true from his
constant moaning over all this.

Pearl says that Phoenix needs to
act more mature when he says he
prefers Pearls' kids shows than
the Nickel Samurai. Hah. Will
says that he's glad he invited
everyone here for a feast, and
that he feels sorry for the
Jammin' Ninja who lost to the
Pink Princess (who fans will
remember Will also played as).
Maya then comments if the
Jammin' Ninja was any different
today, commenting that he wasn't
carrying around his red guitar.
Will then says it is odd he
wasn't carrying around his
signature guitar. Maya mentions
you should head over to the
lobby. There's going to be a
press conference about the
Nickel Samurai confessing
something. Now we got some
options.

Talk to Will about "Will
Powers". Maya will ask Will what
he's been doing lately. Ever
since The Pink Princess finished
last month, he has been busy on
a kid's exercise show. Phoenix
will comment that he's an action
star who's popularity exploded
when he was the Steel Samurai
and when accused of a murder
case Phoenix worked on. Will is
also an incredibly kind guy. Now
ask about "The Nickel Samurai".

Will comments that a movie based
on the Nickel Samurai will be
coming soon. The new series of
the Nickel Samurai is very
similar to the Steel Samurai
show-it's still aimed at kids.
Will didn't get any part on the
show, though, much to his
dismay. Maya mentions that the
actor Matt Engarde plays the
Nickel Samurai, and that he'll
be fighting it out with the
Jammin' Ninja for popularity.
Now ask about the "Jammin'
Ninja".

The Jammin' Ninja always carries
around his red guitar. The show
premise just seems really odd.
Global Studios who has the
Nickel Samurai, and Worldwide
Studios who has the Jammin'
Ninja, have been fierce rivals.
There isn't anything else to do
here. Enter the Hallway.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hallway
--------------------------------
You will enter a long and
spacious hallway. Time to
examine this place to kill off
some time. First, examine the
purple disc things near the door
to the right. These gifts were
given to Matt Engarde by the
Global Studio staff. Now examine
the door left of Matt's. The
door has a slip of paper reading
it's "Juan Corrida's Room".
Phoenix doesn't know much about
this actor. Now that you have
some info, head back to the
Viola Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Viola Hall
--------------------------------
Will says that the post-awards
ceremony is about to start. Will
is most interested in the press
conference where the Nickel
Samurai is going to confess
something, possibly very
important. Will doesn't know
what the conference is going to
be about, so he invited Phoenix
and company to join him in going
there. He hands you the PRESS
CONFERENCE TICKET which you will
need to get in there. Move to
the Hotel Lobby now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
Why didn't we get to see this
place in the first game?
Anyways, you will see the large
stage where the awards ceremony
is going to be held in the
lobby. Someone on the PA will
say that the Post-Awards
Ceremony Press Conference will
not be continuing due to
unforeseen circumstances. It
also says that nobody should
move, and that's a special
request from the police. Phoenix
is ready to investigate, but
someone in a...space suit...or
something like that, comes by
and barks at you to stay put.

Sound familar? The person then
goes on a huge rant about how
some punk kid tried going over a
bridge despite a sign saying the
bridge was out nearby, and the
person here shoved that kid off
the bridge. Will recongnizes the
non-stop chatter can only come
from one person-Wendy Oldbag. Oh
gawd, not her again. And she's
got a gun! Damnit what the hell
is wrong with this woman? She
recongnizes Will right away, and
go on a long spiel on how she
admires Will's character in the
show he is in right now.

Oldbag says that she is a
security member still. Love how
she apparently gets a toy gun
with realistic sound effects as
a defensive weapon. Talk to her
about "Wendy Oldbag". She says
that ever since the murder
incident that happened last
year, Global Studios has been
letting people go. They also
lowered their security team and
that's when she was fired from
her job. She then blames her job
scenario on Phoenix for forcing
her to testify like that back in
case 3 of the previous game. She
also tried being a bodyguard for
Edgeworth (who she apprently
really likes, as it's hinted).
Now ask about "What happened?"

Oldbag says she doesn't have all
the details, but it appears that
someone was murdered here. Maya
then says they should all act
like they're going to the
bathroom to get a cover to check
out the action. Head back over
to the Viola Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Viola Hall
--------------------------------
Phoenix comments that nothing
unusual is happening in this
room. Just before you get to go
somewhere else, a bellboy stops
you and asks if he is looking at
Maya. He says she has a phone
call waiting by the front desk
and asks if she could come with
him. Well that is totally not
suspicious at all. Since it
isn't, let's just let her go.
Pearl says she's excited to help
you investigate. Head back to
the Hallway.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hallway
--------------------------------
Once you enter the hallway, you
will hear somebody yelling that
they have a right to get the
information they need to know.
Someone else, probably a police
officer, says that they aren't
allowed to give out details at a
time like this. The person
yelling seems to use some sort
of accent before running off.
Yeah, Lotta Hart is back once
again. So much for wanting to
find her true self. Gumshoe
appears (always the cop everyone
yells at, apprently!) and asks
if you'll make Lotta shut her
trap. Gumshoe says that this is
the scene of a murder.

Turns out Lotta was right in
assuming that murder has
happened here. Over Gumshoe's
complaining that he's in
trouble, Lotta shouts out this
was the murder of a huge star.
Huh. Talk to Gumshoe about "What
happened". Pearl asks if it was
the Nickel Samurai who was
killed, but Gumshoe says that
isn't the case. Turns out it is
the Nickel Samurai who people
are thinking is the murderer.
The guy who was killed is none
other than the actor of the
Jammin' Ninja. Ask about "Lotta
Hart" now.

Gumshoe says that Lotta was
hanging around the hallway just
before the murder happened. She
was hiding infront of the
Jammin's Ninja's door, no doubt
wanting to get pictures of the
actor. Lotta only said she was
trying to get a "scoop" and said
nothing more than that. Now
question Gumshoe on "The
victim".

Gumshoe confirms the victim was
the Jammin' Ninja, rival to the
Nickel Samurai. The action star
who was killed is Juan Corrida.
Judging by his picture it seems
he is from the countryside. He's
been attracting a lot of
attention lately. However, the
Nickel Samurai's actor Matt
Engarde has been stealing his
spotlight. Phoenix asks that now
since Juan Corrida is gone, if
Matt Engarde will have the stage
to himself. Gumshoe says that he
can't quite let that happen.

Present Matt Engarde's profile.
Gumshoe will say that Matt was
just arrested on suspicion that
he killed Juan Corrida. Now talk
about "Arrested?" Gumshoe said
that he isn't allowed to tell
you as he's afraid or any
information leaks. Pearl asks if
you'll take on the case since
that is what Maya would make you
do if she was here right now.
Head back to the Hotel Lobby.

--------------------------------
Date-March 20 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
Will will be waiting in the
lobby and asks what is going on.
Will can hardly believe the
circumstances of this murder, as
it all seems familar to him. One
famous actor killing another
famous actor. Will still doesn't
think that Matt would kill
someone. Phoenix notices
something in his hand, though.
He says that the bellboy from
earlier wanted to give this to
Phoenix. RADIO TRANSCEIVER will
be added to the Court Record.
All the bellboy said is that it
was for the attorney Phoenix
Wright. Now talk to Will about
"Matt and Juan".

He says that Matt is one of the
most energetic actor's out there
right now. The Nickel Samurai
made him a real idol, but he
kept adding to his rivalry with
Juan anyways. He keeps saying
the Juan and Matt would compete
to be the best in just about
anything, however it was usually
Matt who came out to be the
best. Since Juan wanted to
compete with Matt, he joined a
rival television show, and that
was where the Jammin' Ninja came
from. Now look at where their
rivalry is gone to. Matt has
killed Juan. Now ask about the
"Press conference".

The conference wasn't really for
Matt as much as it was for the
Nickel Samurai. He was supposed
to wear the costume and give the
press conference in it. He isn't
sure on why this is, though.
Pearl then asks what is taking
Maya so long with her phone
call. Pearl leaves to take a
look for her, and an irritating
beeping noise occurs.

Turns out to be the transciever
you just recieved. After turning
it on, a mysterious voice come
online, and Maya's voice can be
heard shouting for help as well.
He says that the fate of Maya is
very important right now. The
man says he has a proposal, and
if Phoenix accepts then Maya
will be returned unharmed. He
alerts you this is a kidnapping.
The man isn't seeking any money,
however. He wants a verdict on a
certain acquittal. He isn't the
person he wants Phoenix to
represent. What he wants is very
simple. He wants you to get a
total not guilty verdict on Matt
Engarde. He didn't kill anyone,
the voice says. Someone is
framing him for the murder,
though. Phoenix is able to
believe him or not, however,
Maya is still with him whether
he accepts or not. You have one
chance. Don't screw up. He calls
himself "De Killer" before
hanging up. Clever name.

Pearl runs off to inform Gumshoe
of the situation. Don't see how
that isn't part of "don't call
the cops" but Gumshoe's
incompetence will see us
through. Somehow. Gumshoe
suspects that this means Engarde
is the killer. But De Killer
said Matt is being framed,
right? If Matt was really
innocent then there'd be no
point to the kidnapping. Gumshoe
also comments that "too much
evidence" is being found.

--------------------------------
Date-??? Time-???
Location-???
--------------------------------
This scene involves Maya,
complaining that her body aches.
The room she is locked in
resembles a wine cellar. A
mysterious man looking just like
a butler walks in, and
introduces himself as "De
Killer". He says Maya isn't his
target for now. He says that
this is a mere business
transaction. De Killer then
calls Phoenix. This is what you
just witnessed earlier.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21, 8:11 AM Location-
Wright & Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Pearl greets you early in the
morning and says that you should
hurry over to greet Matt in the
detention center. However, since
visiting hours aren't open for a
little while, you have some time
to kill. Talk to her about "What
to do". Pearl asks what if Matt
is the real murderer. It's best
not to think about that option
for the moment.

Now ask about "Maya's
situation". Pearl says that Maya
is the last one of her family
she still has. Her father is
gone, Morgan is locked in
solitary confinement, and that
just leaves Maya at a high risk
of getting killed. Move to the
Detention Center now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21, 8:57 AM Location-
Detention Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
You will find Matt Engarde
sitting in the Detention Center.
He seems like a much bigger guy
in person. He thinks Phoenix is
selling him life insurance for
some reason before he gets
corrected. He then calls his
manager on what to do in this
situation. You have to make him
have Phoenix take the case. Talk
about "Matt Engarde" first. He
says he can't talk about much
since he has an autobiography
coming out soon. He then calls
his publisher and says he isn't
allowed to talk about anything.

Now ask about "What happened".
Now he calls the president of
the studios (he needs a mind of
his own...) on what to do here.
He says that the president
strongly thinks Matt isn't the
murderer. Present the Press
Conference Ticket. Phoenix asks
if he was going to give a
conference after winning the
Grand Prix. Matt says he never
heard anything about this, he
just leaves all this stuff to
his manager. Matt then says it's
about time he got going. Phoenix
mentions the name De Killer
before he takes off, and this
stops Matt. Engarde lets you
take on his case now. He says
he'll answer anything he can.

Now ask about "Matt Engarde". He
says that it's really great to
be the Nickel Samurai. He
mentions his motto about
refrshing like a spring breeze.
This describes his personality
(or so he says). He says that
this scandal is going to destroy
his reputation even if he
manages to get out of here
easily. Now ask about "What
happened".

After Matt got the award he went
back to his room. He had that
post-award ceremony to get ready
for. He was in his Nickel
Samurai costume, and he was
along the entire time. When he
was leaving his room he noticed
it was very noisy. He was told
by his manager that Juan was
killed. Gumshoe appeared moments
later to arrest him. Now ask
about "The victim". Matt says
that him and Juan are the same
age. He asks why he would have
any reason to kill Juan in the
first place. It logically would
be the other way around. Juan
should be jealous and would want
to kill Matt.

Now ask about "The charge of the
murder". He says that the full
body search went badly, and
that's why he was charged with
the crime. They found a button
from the Jammin' Ninja's
costume. It was caught in his
pants at the time. He thinks
that it was planted there by
someone. Pearl says that you
should ask if he is really
innocent or not, and if he's
lying then the Magatama would
figure it out.

Phoenix asks Matt directly if he
killed Juan Corrida. He says
that he didn't kill him, and
since no Psyche Locks appeared
it's safe to assume he isn't the
murderer. Save the game now.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 4-2
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 11:34 AM Location-
Wright & Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
You'll discuss with Pearl that
you only have one day to get
Matt a not guilty verdict, and
since he's innocent it shouldn't
be all that hard. But that means
you have to find the real
killer. Talk to Pearl about
"What to do". You'll just repeat
that Matt is innocent. Ask about
"Any ideas". Phoenix asks why
Pearl thinks him and Maya are so
interested in each other even
though they aren't doing
anything special. Then Phoenix
gets slapped since she thinks
you're just hiding your
feelings. You can now move back
to the Gatewater Hotel, so do
that.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
You'll meet up with Oldbag once
again as you arrive. It seems
funny how yet another action
star was killed, and Oldbag is
the security officer still, and
she happened to be a huge fan of
Juan's. It's like case 3 all
over again. She thinks that
everyone she's near gets killed.
Duh, she's so irritating and
ugly. No surprise. Talk to her
about "The victim". She
questions why every star she
cares about gets killed off one
by one. She also mentions that
she doesn't believe anything
Lotta says to her. We can assume
that Lotta told Oldbag what she
knows so far.

Now ask about "What happened".
She says that she doesn't know
anything about the murder since
she was in the lobby getting
ready for the press conference.
However, she mentions that she
did see the most important
moment of the crime. Now ask
about "What you witnessed". She
laughs at Phoenix for all of a
sudden wanting info, then four
Psyche Locks appear over her.
She demands you bring her a
present to get her to talk. You
don't have any real evidence of
which you can use now, so ignore
her for a while and head over to
the Hallway.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hallway
--------------------------------
The hotel staff and police
investigators sure seem busy
today. You will meet up with
Lotta when you enter the
hallway. Lotta exclaims that
Phoenix is a thief and demands
that he hands over her camera.
She says that since the criminal
returns to the scene of the
crime, Phoenix must have her
camera. Talk to Lotta about the
"Camera". She says that she lost
her camera sometime after the
murder from last night. She
probably lost it trying to run
around all of the police
investigators there at the time.
She did catch many pictures of
anything that caught her eye,
though. LOTTA'S CAMERA will be
added to the Court Record.

Now ask about "What happened".
Before the awards ceremony the
night before, Lotta was hanging
out in the hallway area. She was
even here when Matt was
arrested. She said there was a
big scoop to be had. Now you can
ask her about the "Big Scoop".
Before she'll tell you what she
was really after that night, two
Psyche Locks appear over her.
You have a couple more options
now than from yesterday. Head
over to Engarde's Hotel Room
first.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Engarde's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
When you enter the room, someone
will ask who you are. The woman
figures that you are Engarde's
lawyer. She seems to be a really
smart woman. She thinks that you
came here to find clues that
will build up your case. She
says she is Adrian Andrews, and
she prefers to get right down to
the facts. Talk to Adrian about
"Night of the murder". Before
the awards ceremony, she was
having dinner with Engarde in
his hotel room. She says to
check the table if you care
about what she ate. When the
show was starting, she went to
the Viola Hall. She didn't come
back to the room afterwards
because she had some errands to
run. She helped with the
preperations in the lobby. She
went to get Engarde and Corrida
for the show, and that's when
she discovered the body.

Ask about her "Relation to
Engarde". She'll say that she's
surprised you don't already know
who she is, and adds she is
Engarde's manager. Adrian also
says Corrida doesn't have a
manager due to hs studios having
a different policies than Global
Studios. Present to Adrian the
Press Conference Ticket.

You will say that Engarde didn't
know anything about the
conference, and Adrian points
out that she didn't know most of
the details herself either. It
was part of the publicy
department's order not to know
much about the conference
itself. Now present Juan
Corrida's profile. Adrian says
that she did know Juan Corrida.
She says that Matt and Juan were
like children when they were
competing over the silliest of
things. Perhaps she knows why
Matt was driven to kill Juan, or
whoever the real murderer is.

Ask about "Motive for murder"
now. Surprise, surprise, she too
has four Psyche Locks on her.
Sheesh, must everyone be hiding
simple details from us? Next I'm
sure Gumshoe will have Psyche
Locks. There's nothing more you
can do here. Head next door to
Corrida's Hotel Room.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Corrida's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
There a crapload of stuffed
bears in this room. That's
slightly awkward for a man to
like these things. Gumshoe will
appear to greet you and asks if
anything else about the
kidnapper has come up. Phoenix
assumes he won't call again
until Matt gets his not guilty
verdict. Gumshoe says that due
to these extreme circumstances
he's willing to let you look
around the crime scene and will
tell you everything he knows. He
also has a map of the hotel and
hands it to you. HOTEL GUIDEMAP
will be added to the Court
Record. Talk to Gumshoe about
"Cause of death".

There isn't an autopsy report
yet, but the picture of the
crime scene should be sufficent
enough. There is a knife stuck
in Corrida's chest. This knife
is obviously the murder weapon,
and it's being analyzed for
fingerprints right now. Tests
are pretty sure these are Matt
Engarde's fingerprints, too.
CRIME PHOTO will be added to the
Court Record. Now ask about the
"Reason for arrest".

He was arrested because evidence
was piled up on him. Juan ended
up putting up a fight, and by
looking at the other side of the
room you can easily tell that a
struggle occured here. During
the fight, one of his button's
flew off. It's possible this is
the same button that landed in
Engarde's pocket. Even worse,
there was a witness to this
crime. He says that Oldbag is
one of the witnesses. Gumshoe
also says that something was a
little off in the room. However,
he won't tell you.

Let's start examining the room.
Press L to shift screens. Look
at the vanity. Despite
everything being a mess here, a
single wine glass remains
upright on the table. WINE GLASS
will be added to the Court
Record. Now on the floor near
the vanity is a guitar case, no
doubt the one that holds the
Jammin' Ninja's red guitar.
Oddly enough, the guitar is
missing in action, and the top
of the lid to the case is wet.
GUITAR CASE will be added to the
Court Record.

Head back to Gumshoe and present
the Wine Glass. He admits that
was the oddest thing about the
room. It was the only part that
remained untouched. However, he
mentions that Franziska found
this out first. Gumshoe says you
are going to be in a lot of
trouble when she gets here. Ah,
too late, that annoying beeping
noise appears again. Franziska
appears and starts whipping the
hell out of Phoenix and Gumshoe.
She says that you have soiled
her perfect prosecuting record
twice over, and this time she
will destroy you in court.

Franziska swears she will defeat
you and leaves, but not before
throwing something at you.
Gumshoe also says he has to
leave, and tells you to visit
him at the Criminal Affairs
Department if you need
something. Examine the table
infront of you now to find a
note on it, autographed by
Corrida, and made out to someone
named Wendy. Wonder who that
could be. MR. CORRIDA'S
AUTOGRAPH will be added to the
Court Record. Now head back into
the Viola Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Viola Hall
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Will again
here. He says that anyone
connected to the murder isn't
allowed to leave. Ask him about
"The Nickel Samurai". He will
tell you the show is aimed for
kids, and is the sequel to his
Steel Samurai show. There is
nothing major you need to
remember about the show, but
Pearl seems really into the show
now. Ask about the "Jammin'
Ninja" to learn the show which
is also aimed towards kids.
Pearl also gets ideas to watch
this show as well.

Choose to present Adrian
Andrews' profile. Will says he
was interested in her for a
little while. He says he doesn't
know too much about her. Now ask
about "The gossip on Adrian". He
shows you an article where
someone dedicates something to
the beautiful managed A.A.,
Adrian Andrews' initials. This
hints that Juan Corrida wanted
Adrian Andrews to be his
manager. MAGAZINE CLIPPING will
be added to the Court Record.
You will need this very clipping
to unlock Lotta's Psyche Locks,
so go visit her.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hallway
--------------------------------
Present the Magatama and get
down to business.

--------------------------------
~Lotta's Magatama Secret-Big
Scoop~
--------------------------------
Lotta isn't willing to give you
any clues, so Phoenix guesses
that Lotta was looking into a
scandal. She may have been
looking for a break in a huge
story. You need to present the
person that goes with Juan
Corrida who may have been
involved in the scandal. Present
Adrian Andrews' profile here.
She has been caught meeting with
Juan Corrida secretly and would
have been a great story for
Lotta if she could get it. The
first lock will break. However,
she claims you need backup
information and asks you to
present info that ties Corrida
with Adrian. Present the
Magazine Clipping. Lotta saw
this article and was loitering
in the hallway, waiting for her
chance to get some proof of this
story. The second lock will
break.

Now ask about "Big scoop". She
admits that she was going to get
pictures of their love affair.
She was hoping that she could
get real proof and not just the
initals of the name of the
person Juan was seeing. The note
to herself that she wrote on is
gone, however. It was inside of
her camera which she lost.
LOTTA'S CAMERA will be updated
in the Court Record. Head back
to the Hotel Lobby to unravel
the secrets of a certain old
duff.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
Present the Magatama to start
unlocking Oldbag's secrets.

--------------------------------
~Oldbag's Magatama Secret-What
You Witnessed~
--------------------------------
Oldbag says that she finally has
a chance to toy with you, and
Phoenix says he will give her
what she wants. Present Juan
Corrida's Autograph. The
autograph was addressed to Wendy
(prey tell if this is the real
Wendy or not), so perhaps it is
right in giving it to her. She
wants to autograph so badly that
the first three locks will break
right off. She wants an exchange
since Phoenix isn't too sure in
getting rid of the autograph.
The last Psyche Lock will break
off. The autograph will be
handed over to Oldbag. Now ask
about "What you witnessed".

Oldbag says that she saw Matt
leave Juan's room that night. It
was about 10 minutes before
Juan's body was discovered. It
was just a coincidence, though.
Oldbag has alreayd testified
that to the police. She says
that she has been called in as a
witness tomorrow, and that
sounds just super. All we need
is another Oldbag testimony. She
says she really wants to get
Matt guilty. Now you can ask
about "Engarde's past".

Oldbag says that Engarde framed
Juan. He created the scandal
that plagued Juan. Oldbag says
that Juan was tempted by Adrian
Andrews none less. She thinks
that Matt shoved her into Juan's
business intentionally to force
a scandal that would lower
Juan's reputation. Oldbag knows
so much about it because she is
a huge fan of him. She says she
learned about it from a magazine
that won't be out until next
week. How does she know that
now? Head over to the Criminal
Affairs Department now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
Gumshoe will greet you just like
he said he would. He says that
there isn't anything to be happy
about in this case, and that all
of the testimonies point that
Matt is the murderer. Talk to
Gumshoe about "Airtight
evidence". He says he can't
reveal the details, but there
are two big pieces. Both of them
are in the crime photo. There is
a button missing from Juan's
chest that was found in the
Nickel Samurai's pants, and the
fingerprints that were on the
kinfe stuck in Juan's chest. The
prints belong to Matt.

Ask about "Airtight testimony"
now. He says that Oldbag will be
testifying, but we already knew
that. Gumshoe even told Oldbag
not to say anything to anyone.
She saw everything. She saw Matt
come out of Juan's room near the
time of death. Present to
Gumshoe the Magazine Clipping.
The police are involved with the
scandal between Adrian Andrews
and Juan as well. Two years ago,
a woman committed suicide. Her
name was Celeste Inpax. She used
to be Juan Corrida's manager. As
if this wasn't enough, Celeste
was Adrian's mentor. She taught
Adrian almost everything she
knows about business. Now ask
about "Celeste Inpax".

It's been two years since her
suicide, and now another case
has formed and possibly her
death could be involved.
Franziska apears before he gets
any further. Franziska is sick
of Gumshoe acting traitor to her
and says he is fired. However,
just before Gumshoe leaves,
someone says that Franziska
would have won in court if it
wasn't Gumshoe. The voice
belongs to the one and only
Edgeworth. Franziska says that
Edgeworth should be ashamed for
failing as a prosecutor, but
then he backlashes at her by
asking just how well her court
record has been coming along. He
says he came back to replace
Franziska who was clearly losing
it. Let's talk to Edgeworth
about "Tomorrow's trial".

Phoenix says that he thought
Edgeworth went up and died a
year ago. He asks if Edgeworth
is prosecuting tomorrow, but as
long as Franziska wants the case
there's nothing he can do. He
does say that Phoenix can't win
by himself tomorrow. Something
seems odd with Edgeworth. He
totally doesn't seem the same.
He goes as far as saying he's
understood the importance of
teamwork, and is willing to let
loose any information he knows
since he isn't part of the case.
Ask about "Proof of Von Karma
blood" now.

A perfect win record is a proof
of a Von Karma. Phoenix guesses
that since Edgeworth's win
record had been shattered,
Edgeworth couldn't show his face
in court again and said he chose
death while in reality ran away.
Now he asks you why Phoenix is
in court. Ask "Why stand in
court?" now.

Phoenix says he is in court just
to defend his client while
Edgeworth merely laughs and says
he has a lot to learn. Present
Celeste Inpax's profile to
Edgeworth. He says the she is an
important part of this case. She
was Adrians' mentor, but
suddenly was called in to be
Juan Corrida's manager. Several
months later, Inpax died.
Despite her death being a
suicide, something remains
unanswered. She had a suicide
note, but nobody could find it.
Talk about the "Missing suicide
note".

The police began to suspect that
the suicide note was hidden.
There was no solid evidence that
she had written a note, however,
there were cases of ink found on
her finger, so the likelihood of
a suicide note is very high. The
police think it was Juan Corrida
himself who hid the note. He was
the one who found her body, so
he was the only person who had a
chance to hide the note.
Edgeworth hands you part one of
the SUICIDE REPORT which will be
added to the Court Record.
Present this report to
Edgeworth.

He says that this report has two
parts to it. The second part
mentions of an attempted suicide
of Adrian Andrews. Edgeworth
says that she just looks like a
strong business woman. She has
always had a secret she was
trying to hide. He mentions the
word co-dependency. Ask about
"Co-dependency" now. Adrian
Andrews tried to commit suicide
several days after Celeste Inpax
killed herself. Adrian tried to
kill herself because she had
lost her will to live. Her
mentor had just killed herself,
and her mentor taught her so
much. Adrian then started going
to counseling sessions to try
and find someone she could trust
unconditionally. Without someone
to follow, Adrian becomes uneasy
and can't find her way through
life. ATTEMPTED SUICIDE REPORT
will be added to the Court
Record now. Wow. That's a lot of
new info to the case. We may be
able to break Adrian's Psyche
Locks now, so head to Engarde's
Hotel Room.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Engarde's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
Adrian is still in the room, but
she's talking with Franziska at
the moment. Franziska quickly
accuses Phoenix of following her
around everywhere she goes.
Pearl steps in and says that it
is her who is doing the
following, not Phoenix, and says
that she is always following
Gumshoe around. She then present
an electromagnetic receiver that
tracks the location of Gumshoe
at any given time. That's like,
illegal, doesn't she know that?
Franziska takes her leave after
telling Adrian to remember what
they discussed. Present the
Magatama and let's get this over
with.

--------------------------------
~Adrian's Magatama Secret-Motive
for Murder~
--------------------------------
Adrian says she was never really
close to Juan Corrida. She's
never been good at being with
other people. You need to
present evidence that shows
doubt in this statement. Present
the Magazine Clipping. She says
that it is just a tabloid and
you shouldn't go believing it.
She says again she hates
relationships like that. Now you
need to show her why she needed
to get close to Juan. Present
Celeste Inpax's profile. The
first lock will break.

Celeste committed suicide and
nobody knows why. Phoenix
believes that Celeste got close
to Juan so she could find out
more about the missing suicide
note. She says that there was no
mystery surrounding her death.
Now you must present something
that shows she wasn't happy with
the way the case was resolved.
Present the Suicide Report. The
police were under suspicion that
there was a note and that Juan
Corrida was the one who hid it.
Adrian thought the same thing
and strived to be with Juan to
find the note. The second lock
will break.

Adrian says she never knew that
suicide note was never found and
that she doesn't go and gets in
the way of other people. You
need to present proof that
Celeste was an important person
to her. Present the Attempted
Suicide Report. Although Adrian
looks like someone who heavily
supports herself, that's all a
lie. She's heavily dependant on
other people. The third lock
will break now. When Celeste
died, Adrian died a little on
the inside. N matter what,
however, she couldn't rest her
mind of the note. Now the
perspective changes a bit. It
seems now that Adrian wanted
Juan dead for hiding the note
more than Matt wanted him dead.
The final lock will break.

Ask about "Motive for murder"
now. Adrian admits she has
little self confidence. She
wanted to somehow find out what
the note said, and this secret
tore at her. Without Celeste,
Adrian got scared. She got close
to Juan so she could pick up the
suicide note. She admits,
though, she wouldn't kill
anybody for the note. She then
asks if you'd keep her attempted
suicide a secret. Pearl then
mentions that Adrian often plays
with a card in her hand. She
isn't sure what it is, it just
suddenly found its way into her
handbag. There's a picture of a
seashell on the front of it. She
then leaves. Head back to Wright
& Co. Law Offices to end the
day.

--------------------------------
Date-March 21 Location-Wright &
Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
One thing was discovered today.
Adrian does have a clear motive
for murder. Just then, the
tranceiver begins to beep. De
Killer must be calling again. As
promised, De Killer hasn't
touched her. He says that she is
probably starving, so it's in
your best interest to win the
trial as soon as possible. Maya
faintly says to ask Mia
something. Mia appears in
Pearl's body seconds later. She
says she has a message from Maya
so ask her anything you need.
Ask about "Maya's situation".
Maya is safe, just like De
Killer said, for now. Mia knows
about this because Maya
channeled her, and left a note
for her to read. Now ask about
"The kidnapper".

Mia says that Maya went to
answer a phone call at the hotel
and was drugged by De Killer on
the spot. Maya is locked in a
dark room. She'll explain what
she heard.

--------------------------------
Date-??? Time-???
Location-???
--------------------------------
You'll appear in the wine cellar
again, but this time you are
playing as Maya. Cool. Examine
the small card at the bottom of
the stairwell. She says it looks
like a business card, but
there's no name on it. It's the
same card that Adrian was
holding. Now examine the door.
Maya thinks she may be able to
open the door using the card.
Maya is then heard escaping...

Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 4-3
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 9:47 AM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Engarde says that there is no
way Adrian would have killed
Juan. There's going to be a ton
of evidence against Matt in
trial, and you have to somehow
prove it doesn't connect Matt to
the murder. Matt also says that
the scandal in question would
severely hurt his image if it
were true. Mia comes in and says
you must get a complete
acquittal by the end of the
trial. Just before it starts,
the tranceiver radio beeps. De
Killer wants to help you win the
trial, so he sent you a small
present. He says you will figure
it out.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 3
--------------------------------
Franziska isn't in the courtroom
for some reason. The bailiff
comes in and alerts that
Franziska was shot by an unknown
gunman this morning. It isn't
all that unknown to you as Mia
thinks that is clearly the
present that De Killer wanted to
give you. If Franziska, one of
the best prosecutor's around,
was unable to make the trial,
this would be all the more to
your advantage. Someone comes in
and says Franziska is still
okay, and reveals himself to be
Edgeworth.

He says he will be taking her
place. It's about time he did
so, too. He also says Franziska
was shot in the right shoulder
(how ironic) and is in surgery.
Edgeworth knows all the details
to the case and is ready to get
a verdict. He then brings
Gumshoe to the stand. He'll
testify to the facts of the
case.

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Bare Facts
of the Case~
--------------------------------
-This murder happened after the
 Hero of Heroes award ceremony,
 sir.

-The victim, Juan Corrida, was
 found dead in his hotel room.

-After looking into the cause of
 death, we believe he was
 definitely
murdered, sir.

-At first, we though there was
 something suspicious about the
 empty guitar
case.

-However, we later found out
 that the guitar case had
 nothing to do with
the murder.

Gumshoe also points out at the
end that Matt and Juan went to
their respective hotel room,
alone, after the ceremony. Start
by pressing his third statement,
about how Juan was murdered.
Gumshoe says that the cause of
death wasn't actually the knife
stuck in Juan's chest, and tells
you to look at the photo again.
He points you to the bandana
around his neck. The knife was
probably just stuck into his
body after death to make it look
like the actual murder weapon.
AUTOPSY REPORT will be added to
the Court Record.

Press the fourth statement. The
guitar case was empty when Juan
was murdered. The only
fingerprints that could be found
on the case were of Juan's.
GUITAR CASE information will be
updated in the Court Record. Now
press the final statement. The
police are convinced it has
nothing to do with the case
because it wasn't present at the
Gatewater Hotel that night. The
red guitar was eventually found
at the studio's TV set. Juan has
apparently taken just the case
with him. Even when he was
onstage for the awards he didn't
have his guitar. Because there
was nothing in it, is has no
relevence to the case.

Edgeworth ends the examination
and recaps that Juan was choked
to death by his bandana. He was
then stabbed by a knife
intentionally after that. Why
did the police arrest Matt then?

--------------------------------
~Gumshoe's Testimony-Why Arrest
Engarde?~
--------------------------------
-Matt Engarde and Juan Corrida
 were huge rivals with each
 other.

-They each thought the other guy
 was "in his way". That's motive
 enough in
my book.

-As for evidence...There's the
 Jammin' Ninja button.

-It was ripped off of the ninja
 costume and was found in Mr.
 Engarde's
"hakama".

-The defendant's fingerprints
 were also all over the knife.

-The defendant bought the knife
 for the crime...Which makes
 this a
premediated murder!

Gumshoe says that the knife was
easy to get fingerprints from,
and that it was bought just for
the occasion of this murder.
KNIFE will be added to the Court
Record. There is also the button
from Juan's outfit with traces
of his blood on it. JAMMIN'
NINJA'S BUTTON will be added to
the Court Record as well.

The contradiction is lying flat
out here, so no need to go press
happy. Present the Knife at the
final statement, where Gumshoe
says the knife was bought just
for the crime. There is no way
Matt bought this knife. The
handle of the knife has the word
Gatewater engraved onto it, so
the knife clearly belonged to
the hotel and therefore wasn't
bought at a store or elsewhere.
Because of this, the murder
could not have been premediated.
Edgeworth then states this is
worthless information as
everyone already knows the
murder wasn't premediated. He
then asks where the knife came
from then. He then shows the
picture of the room, and that
there is a knife resting on the
table. Then he shows the room of
Engarde. There isn't any knife
on his table. It is assumed that
since Matt's knife was missing,
he took it and stabbed Juan with
it after dinner.

Edgeworth then asks if you'd
like to present any evidence not
yet known. Choose "Actually, I
do." when asked if you need to
present anything. The Judge will
give you the chance to present
just one piece of evidence.
Screw up and you'll lose the
entire health bar. Present the
Wine Glass that we noticed in
Juan's room. Taking a look back
at the crime scene, there was a
struggle. Many things are
knocked over, but the wine glass
remains untouched. Edgeworth
says there isn't anything
special about the glass, though.
He thinks it is safe to say the
glass was set up there after the
crime took place. Perhaps by
Adrian Andrews. Answer "There's
no way" when asked if Adrian
could have set down a glass.

Edgeworth says he has proof that
Adrian set the glass on the
table. He has alreayd inspected
the glass for fingerprints, and
as it would turn out, only one
set of fingerprints were found
on the glass. All of them belong
to Adrian Andrews. WINE GLASS
will be updated in the Court
Record. Adrian probably was
holding the glass when she went
into Juan's room, and put it
down when she was shocked to him
dead. Edgeworth has yet another
witness that will give their
account.

Oh no, not Oldbag. Oldbag seems
a little more than excited to
see Edgeworth again. Edgeworth
doesn't look to thrilled,
though, to have this irritating
witness on the stand. She says
again that she was a fan of
Juan, and probably is part of
his security team.

--------------------------------
~Oldbag's Tesitmony-What You
Witnessed~
--------------------------------
-Anyway, after the ceremony, I
 went to pace around in the
 hallway in the
front room.

-There was something I was
 interested in finding out, you
 know...

-Well, since I was on the job, I
 made sure to keep a good eye
 out the
whole time.

-That's when someone showed up!
 It was a man coming out of poor
 Juan's
room.

-It was Engarde. Matt Engarde.
 He was trying to sneak his way
 out of Juan's
room!

Press the final statement, about
how she saw Engarde come out of
Juan's room. Oldbag is sure that
she saw him come out of his
room. You can now ask Oldbag a
side question. Choose to learn
more about "The person's
clothes". She says the man was
wearing a sporty racing jacket.
The Judge will ask if this
question was important in any
way. Choose "It was very
important". Oldbag will add the
following line to her testimony.

-He was wearing his flashy
 racing jacket. Honestly, it's
 all just for show.

Present the Jammin' Ninja's
Button at this new statement.
Oldbag knows the button from the
Jammin' Ninja's costume. Oldbag
really wants the button as a
small gift, but too bad it's
evidence. The button was found
in Matt's pants of the Nickel
Samurai costume. However, Oldbag
just said that Matt was wearing
his usual racing jacket. Oldbag
will testify again, going into
further detail on who she saw.

------------------------------
~Oldbag's Testimony-Who I Saw~
------------------------------
-Engarde...Engarde...Yes, now I
 remember!

-The Nickel Samurai, that's
 right, it was the Nickel
 Samurai that I saw!

-Yes, it would have been
 convienent for him to wear his
 costume to the
murder.

-He had to go to that post-
 ceremony stage show right after
 the crime, you
know.

-So he must've worn that Nickel
 Samurai costume when he was
 stabbing poor
Juan.

Mia says that the contradiction
is lying in plain sight. Present
the Knife at the final
statement, where she says that
Matt must have been in the
Nickel Samurai costume. The
knife is important because it
has Matt's fingerprints on it.
If Matt was really in the Nickel
Samurai costume at the time of
the murder, there's no way his
fingerprints would have been on
the knife. He would have just
wiped them clean off. The Nickel
Samurai wears gloves on his
costume. Edgeworth says that he
may have taken off the gloves,
but that's impossible. Why would
have have done that?

Edgeworth says there is one
possibility. He says he went to
Juan's room in his costume,
expecting just to converse with
him with no intention of
killing. That's when he took off
the gloves. You need to check if
there are any contradictions
with this theory. Choose "There
is a contradiction". If Matt was
the killer, you need to present
what intent he had for going to
his room. Present the knife once
again. If Matt was the killer,
he would have brought the knife
to his visit with Juan.

However, if Matt originally went
in with no intent to murder,
there'd be no point in bringing
the knife. Also, if Matt was
wearing his costume to the
murder, then there would be
glove marks on the knife.
Thusly, Phoenix thinks the knife
was planted by the real killer
to make it look like Matt is the
murderer. You must answer why
the knife was planted in Juan.
Choose "To frame Matt Engarde".
Oldbag did just say she saw Matt
in his costume, and thusly there
would be glove prints on the
knife it that were true.

Oldbag hints that it may not
have been the Nickel Samurai she
really saw. She says she wasn't
waiting around in the hallway
for the Nickel Samurai. She
isn't allowed to say just who
she was really waiting for,
though. However, she wasn't
actually waiting for Juan
Corrida. Now you must present
the person she was really
waiting for. Present Adrian
Andrews' profile. It is
explained why Adrian would be in
Juan's room. Oldbag then says
that since you all figured it
out, she might as well spill the
beans on this secret
information.

--------------------------------
~Oldbag's Testimony-Secret
Information~
--------------------------------
-That Engarde is one evil, evil
 man!

-He thought he could ruin poor
 Juan by causing a huge scandal!

-So to do that, he sent his own
 manager to get in close with
 Juan!

-I cannot condone such dirty
 tricks! So I took action!

-...Oh, and this is top secret,
 you got that!? Bobody else but
 you and me
know yet, OK?

As it turns out, if you don't
prove this rumor to be false
then it proves ill-will towards
the victim, and will probably
prove Matt guilty. Start off by
pressing the final statement of
her testimony, where she says
this info is top secret. Oldbag
isn't willing to say where she
found the information from.
Choose to "Present evidence" as
you have something that shows
where she may have gotten this
information from. Present Lott'a
Camera. She lost her camera, and
she put a note inside the camera
as well. She wrote down several
things she thought about the
relationship between Adrian and
Juan.

Oldbag then presents the note
she found. Oldbag must have been
the one who stole Lotta's camera
to begin with, and found the
note later. Phoenix will then
think it's best to forgive her.
Choose to "Pile on more
pressure". Oldbag says that the
piece of paper is the only thing
she stole. You need to present
what else she stole that night.
Present Lotta's Camera here.
Oldbag then admits that she did
steal the camera. Oldbag was
curious what kind of pictures
Lotta had taken so she
"borrowed" the camera to find
out.

The photos on the camera will be
developed at once. Only one
photo is actually relevent to
the case, however. The picture
shows the Nickel Samurai, and
LOTTA'S PHOTO will be added to
the Court Record. This picture,
added to Matt's statement that
he was in the Nickel Samurai
costume at the time of the
murder, proves that he is the
murderer. You will be asked if
there is anything wrong with the
picture. Choose there is
"something strange with it".
Once again this is your last
shot, worth your entire health
bar. Point to the bottom of the
left leg (or his right leg if
you were in the costume). If it
were possible to see the ankles,
that would be enough to prove it
is Matt in the costume, however,
they aren't visible.

Thusly, the person in the
costume isn't Matt Engarde. The
Nickel Samurai in the picture is
holding up the hakama just to
walk. The person inside the
costume must be shorter than
Matt. Edgeworth asks just who
could be inside the Nickel
Samurai costume. Present Adrian
Andrews' profile. First, she is
shorter than Matt. Also, she can
move freely between Matt and
Juan's room without trouble. She
also had dinner with Matt that
night. It means that it was easy
for her to get the knife that
night.

Phoenix now calls that Adrian
Andrews is the one who murdered
Juan, not Matt. She tried to
frame Engarde instead. However,
this means that the trial will
last for another day. Sadly, you
can't let that happen. Choose to
"Raise an objection". As it
turns out, Edgeworth predicted
such an event would occur, os he
brought Adrian as a witness in
the event it was necessary for
her to come. A short recess will
occur now. Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 4-4
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 2:14 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Matt still doesn't think that
Adrian would have pulled off
this murder. He also says that
during the break between the
ceremony and press conference he
was sleeping, so the only person
it could have been is Adrian.
She also could have planted the
blood covered button into his
pocket at that time, as well.
Mia also thinks that Adrian's
only motive was to retrieve the
missing suicide note that
Celeste left. The only problem
with this theory is that
Edgeworth told it to you. It's
obvious he knows you'll pull
this stunt in court.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 2:25 PM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 3
--------------------------------
Adrian Andrews is called to the
witness stand. She says that she
has one request regarding
everyone already knowing that
she had some relationship with
Juan. She was seeing Juan
Corrida, and was already aware
of the rivalry between Juan and
Matt. However, she claims seeing
him was a private matter. She
then claims she didn't kill him,
and testifies what she knows.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-When
I Found the Body~
--------------------------------
-It was time for the show to
 start, so I went to get Matt
 from his room.

-After that, I went to Juan's
 room.

-And there was his dead body.
 I...I was in shock...

-What I saw was, naturally, the
 exact same scene as in the
 crime scene
photo.

-I felt as though I was about to
 faint, so I poured myself a
 glass of
juice.

Adrian also states at the end
that she was so paniced that she
forgot to not touch anything,
and that's how her fingerprints
ended up on the wine glass.
Press the third statement when
she says she was in shock. You
won't get any info out of this,
though, save Edgeworth saying
it's natural to be in shock
after seeing a murder. Now press
the final statement when she
says she made herself some
juice. Adrian says that she
wasn't feeling too good, so she
put the glass down without
drinking from it. Phoenix
confirms that she was in great
shock when she saw Juan's dead
body, and that's when she poured
herself juice. She then says
that she made one mistake, but
stops herself from going any
further.

Choose to "Press further".
Edgeworth isn't aware of what
her mistake at the crime scene
is either. When she put the wine
glass on the counter, she
accidentally knocked over the
flower vase. When the vase fell,
it broke when it hit the guitar
case. She'll add the next line
to her testimony.

-I was the one who knocked the
 flower vase over, where it fell
 onto the
guitar case.

Present the Guitar Case at this
statement. The main problem here
is that the top of the guitar
case was soaked with water. If
the flower vase really did fall
into the guitar case, the inside
of it would be wet and not the
outside. Also, since the guitar
was open during the crime, the
glass shards would have to be
inside the case and not outside
of it. Adrian did say she didn't
touch anything else but the
vase. The Judge will ask if you
want Adrian to testify about the
guitar case. Choose to "Make her
testify" since there's likely to
be even more holes in her story.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-The
Guitar Case~
--------------------------------
-I don't remember too clearly
 because I was a bit dazed.

-I suppose I must have opened
 the guitar case...after I
 knocked the vase
over.

-It's not a big deal though,
 right? The case was empty after
 all.

-As for why I opened the
 case...Even I don't know.

Present the Guitar Case at her
second statement, when she says
she must have opened the case.
There isn't any way that Adrian
could have opened the case
herself because fingerprints
belonging only to Juan were
found on the case. Pretty simple
explaination. Adrian asks what
if she were wearing gloves when
she walked into the room. You'll
then be asked if this is a
strange statement. Say "That's
strange..." when prompted. You
need to prove that she wasn't
wearing any gloves. Present the
Wine Glass.

Adrian left her fingerprints on
the Wine Glass, so she obviously
wasn't wearing any gloves like
she said she was. In the event
she did take her gloves off to
put the glass of juice on, why
would she put them back on just
to open the guitar case? Mia
says that the guitar case does
play an important role and
questions if it was really empty
upon first discovering it.
Edgeworth says this has nothing
to do with the case, but Phoenix
objects and refutes that Adrian
keeps contradicting herself. The
guitar case must have something
to do with the murder. Now you
need to present what was in the
case at the time of the murder.
Present the Nickel Samurai
picture.

Phoenix proposes that the Nickel
Samurai's costume was inside the
guitar case the entire time. The
point of this would be to wear
the costume, allowing Adrian to
put it on and make her escape
easily. Phoenix says that Lotta
has the picture to support this
statement. The Nickel Samurai in
the photo wasn't Matt, it was
Adrian instead. You need to
explain what Matt's costume was
doing inside the guitar case.
Choose "It was a spare costume".
Since Matt didn't take off his
costume during the break, this
costume must be a spare. This
would mean that the victim
brought the spare costume all
along to the ceremony. Now you
need to present the reason Juan
had to bring a spare Nickel
Samurai costume. Present the
Press Conference Ticket.

The Nickel Samurai was going to
confess something at the press
conference. However, Matt
himself had no idea that this
conference was going to occur.
This can only mean one thing.
The conference was set up by
none other than Juan Corrida
himself. The spare costume was
brought just for this occassion.
The main concern now is what
Juan intended on revealing
during the press conference.
Thusly, it can be assumed Juan
intended on speaking badly of
Matt Engarde. Adrian then says
that the press conference was
setup by Juan. She was the one
Juan asked for help setting up.
She also prepared the second
costume. Juan said that if he
lost the Grand Prix, he intended
on taking Matt down with him as
well. Juan had a secret so
powerful that it would have
destroyed Matt's career. She
also says she has been trying to
protect Matt, explaining why
she's been acting weird.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-
Protecting Matt~
--------------------------------
-From the moment I saw the crime
 scene, I had a feeling Matt was
 the
murderer.

-Matt had to kill Juan no matter
 what.

-And he didn't have an alibi for
 what he was doing at the time
 of the
murder.

-My thoughts were confirmed by
 the evidence, of course; the
 button and the
knife...

-But I'm Matt's manager...So I
 felt that I had to protect
 him...

Press the fourth statement where
she says her thoughts were
confirmed by the murder
evidence. Phoenix says that the
knife could easily just be a
cover. Adrian says this doesn't
really matter, but will change
her line of testimony to the
following.

-That button was torn off of
 Juan during his fight with
 Matt.

Now present Juan's Autopsy
Report. Juan wasn't killed from
the knife as Adrian claims, but
was killed from being strangled
by his bandana. The button could
only have been ripped off after
the knife was stabbed into the
victim. It's impossible the
button would have been ripped
off during the struggle because
he was choked to death in
actuality. The button was ripped
off of Juan's already dead body.
Edgeworth will demand to know
where you are going. The button
was taken off purposefully, but
what was it? You must choose
what the murderer had in mind
when pulling off the button.

Choose "To pin the crime on
Engarde". There's no other way
the button would be in Engarde's
pants. Matt was being setup the
entire time by the real killer.
Now you need to present who the
real murderer must be. Present
Adrian Andrews' profile. There's
no real need to present evidence
because all of it to this point
now shows that she is the real
killer. The knife was used to
throw suspicion onto Engarde to
begin with. It could only have
been taken from his room. Adrian
was the only person to have had
dinner with Matt. Then she asks
about the button. The only
people who could have removed
the button were either the
killer or the person who found
the body. If Matt was the real
killer, he wouldn't be stupid
enough to put important evidence
in his own pocket.

The only person who could have
put it in his pocket was the one
who woke him up, again that is
Adrian. The guitar case held a
spare Nickel Samurai outfit.
Adrian was the only person who
would have even thought to look
in the guitar case for one. She
wiped the prints from the guitar
case so as not to make it look
incriminating. However, she left
her prints on the glass of
juice. She left the prints
intentionally just to setup the
fact she discovered the body.
Then there's the photo which
establishes Adrian coming out of
the room. Adrian starts to break
down now. She then states she
refuses to testify.

She isn't forced to testify
since it would incriminate her.
Phoenix then thinks back to
yesterday when Franziska told
Adrian to remember what she had
told her. Franziska put this
idea of not tesifying into her
head if the case started to look
bad for her. Edgeworth then says
you still lack definitive proof
that any of your accusations are
true. We haven't figured out if
Adrian really did murder Juan.
The Judge is ready to call off
the trial, but Edgeworth manages
to object to his decision.
Although Adrian can refuse to
testify, she can't if the
testimony regards an unrelated
subject. He says that when
people find dead bodies they are
usually scared, not thirsty for
juice.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-When
I Found the Body~
--------------------------------
-That glass of juice...I didn't
 really pour it for myself.

-I was surprised when I walked
 into the room and saw it in
 that messy
state.

-And Juan...He was sitting
 slumped over and tired-looking
 in the corner.

-When I saw him sitting like
 that, the thought that he was
 dead didn't
cross my mind.

-To be honest, I thought he had
 just fainted or something. So I
 went to
pour him some juice.

-When I realized that he was
 dead...That's when I knocked
 the flower vase
over.

Present the Crime Photo at her
fourth statement, when she says
she didn't think Juan was dead.
There's something totally odd
about that. There was a knife
stuck in Juan's body. How she
couldn't have thought he was
dead or seriously injured whens
he walked into the room is
absurd. There's nobody else who
would just get a glass of juice
while ignoring someone who is
dead in the same room. Her lie
has proven, according to
Phoenix, she is the real killer.

Adrian still keeps stammering,
and still says it wasn't her.
Now she's flat out accusing Matt
of making the murder. Just
before the verdict gets put
down, Edgeworth objects. He says
Adrian has yet to speak the real
truth. Adrian says that if she
spoke then Matt would never be
declared guilty. All she is
doing right now is following the
advice of Franziska. Edgeworth
tells you to think about what
Adrian has and hasn't done.
Choose to "Force Andrews to
testify". Adrian still refuses
to testify, though, so Edgeworth
reveals that Adrian has a mental
condition and is about to reveal
Adrian's true nature. Adrian
finally agrees to talk.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-My
"Crime"~
--------------------------------
-When I first saw him...I really
 thought he has fainted. Honest.

-When I realized he was
 dead...That was when I
 formulated my plan.

-Once I made sure there was no
 one in the hallway, I made a
 dash back to
Matt's room.

-And then...I stabbed Juan's
 dead body with the knife, and
 ripped off the
button.

-Just when I finished and was
 returning to Matt's room...I
 had a bit of an
inconvenience.

-And that's why...That's why I
 ended up using the Nickel
 Samurai costume.

Adrian says she did all of this
just to pin the blame on that
scumbag Engarde. She says he
deserves this for escaping a
previous crime. Press her first
statement. Since the bandana is
part of the Jammin' Ninja's
costume, she though nothing was
unusual. Press the second
statement. She admits to forging
the knife and the button. Now
press the third statement.
Nothing important will come out
of it.

Press the fourth statement to
find out Adrian really did plant
the button inside Matt's
costume. Press the fifth
statement to find out it was
Oldbag and Lotta who got in her
way. Now press the final
statement. Adrian reveals it
really was her who put the
Nickel Samurai costume into
Juan's guitar case. After
pressing every statement, the
Judge will call off the cross
examination. Adrian says that
Franziska talked to her
yesterday to just keep quiet
about her crime, and that would
make Matt guilty. Sadly, this
testimony means she isn't the
real killer. Court is over for
the day. This brings disaster
for Phoenix.

Before Edgeworth leaves, he asks
to see the card Adrian keeps
fumbling around with in her
hand. She says she found it in
Juan's room the day of the
murder. Edgeworth demands the
card, however. Edgeworth goes
into a fury of hatred, calling
Adrian an idiot for hiding this
card. It still doesn't seem that
important. Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 4-5
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 5:24 PM Location-
Wright & Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Pearl starts off crying about
Maya since you weren't able to
get your verdict today. Phoenix
says that there still may be a
chance for Maya's freedom. The
condition was to get a not
guilty verdict, and since Matt
hasn't been proved guilty yet,
you should still be fine.
Gumshoe drops by to share some
information. Talk about "The
future". Gumshoe says he's not
exactly capable of finding
another job and wants to work
with you. Well that's...great.
Ask about "Edgeworth" now.

Gumshoe says this is the first
time Edgeworth has ever acted
like that in court. However,
thanks to his bold statement the
truth finally came out. However,
Phoenix still wants to know why
there was a need to frame Matt
Engarde. Now ask about
"Franziska". She was shot on the
way to the trial by a pistol.
She's resting at the hospital
right now, and says it's none
other than the Hotti Clinic.
Err, okay. Can't be all bad.
Head over there right now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22
Location-Hotti Clinic; Reception
--------------------------------
As soon as you enter you will be
greeted by the awkward doctor
impersonator. As if this wasn't
enough, Edgeworth appears as
well to talk with him. He asks
how Franziska is doing, and the
fake director says that she is
doing fine. He also says he's
personally taking care of her
and he knows the surgery went
fine. The fake director will
fall when Franziska appears and
whips him. Looks like she's in a
fine condition. Ask about "The
shooting" now.

Franziska says she was shot
infront of the courthouse in her
right shoulder. She even goes as
far to say that such things
happen all the time. She even
had the mind to continue running
the trial in her condition. She
was dragged here by Edgeworth,
though. Even so, Edgeworth still
had to clean up her mess. Now
talk about "The deal". Franziska
plays dumb and says that she
never made such a deal with
Adrian. This is slightly ironic
in Adrian's situation because
now that she told her secret,
she is in danger of being found
guilty herself. She then runs
off.

Now talk about "Today's trial"
to Edgeworth. He says he had to
go to such extremes to get her
to testify that one little
detail on what she did at the
crime scene. Now ask about
"Adrian's card". Edgeworth says
the history of the card is top
secret and can't be leaked to
anyone. A special team of
investigations has been working
for years to find the owner of
these cards. A man named Shelly
de Killer. He also mentions that
De Killer is one of the best
assassins out there. PICTURE
CARD will be added to the Court
Record.

Now ask about "Assassin". De
Killer is in a long standing
line of assassins out there.
Shelly is the professional name
to one of the heirs of the De
Killer name. He has a habit of
leaving his business card,
cleverly a card with a shell on
it, near each of his victims.
Police think it is a part of his
duty to his clients. If he
leaves a card, then the client
can be assured that it was De
Killer who killed the person. De
Killer values the trust between
himself and his clients. This
pretty much confirms that De
Killer is the assassin who
killed Juan.

Now ask about "Maya's
situation". Edgeworth is willing
to help by putting out a rescue
team, but it's worthless since
there's no clues to her
location. The only eay to save
her is to get an acquittal.
Edgeworth says that De Killer
did kill Juan Corrida. However,
the client is none other than
Matt Engarde. He hands you a
LETTER OF INTRODUCTION that will
allow you into the Gatewater
Hotel, added to the Court
Record. He then takes his leave.

--------------------------------
Date-??? Time-???
Location-???
--------------------------------
Maya says that even kidnappers
are a bit careless in their
actions. She thinks that the
assassin is just making that
title up just like Phoenix does
for most things in court. She
unlocks the door easily. Move to
????. You appear in a living
room of sorts. Start
investigating the area for any
clues. Examine the right wall
with all the shelves. There
appears to be a ton of video
tapes lined up on the wall.

Now examine the picture on the
table. The picture reads "With
love... Celeste" and has a
picture of Celeste on it. Now
examine the teddy bear sitting
on the couch. There seems to be
several cuts on it, however. Now
examine the antennae in the left
corner of the room. It's hooked
up to a VCR. Examine the door
next. It's locked, however, and
the card won't be able to help
you here. The mysterious man
appears again and tells Maya to
cooperate.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22, 7:04 PM
Location-Hotti Clinic; Reception
--------------------------------
Phoenix isn't too sure whether
or not Engarde is really guilty.
There's nothing left here so
head to the Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Sadly, visiting hours are over
so you can't investigate into
whether or not Matt hired De
Killer or not. However, he did
leave a message for you. Matt
has a cat named Shoe and is
asking you to feed him. His
house isn't too far from the
hotel. MATT'S NOTE will be
stuffed into the Court Record.
Head to the Hotel Lobby first.
You need to anyways to access
the option to go to Matt's
house.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
Oldbag appears and says you
can't pass anywhere into the
hotel. Don't bother wasting time
here. A cat's life could hang in
the balance if we don't feed it!
Head to Matt's Living Room.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Engarde
Mansion; Living Room
--------------------------------
Damn, Engarde sure lives in a
fancy house. Shoe appears and
seems to be attached to Pearl. A
certain someone comes up. Wonder
why this guy looks just like De
Killer. He says you must be Mr.
Wright, and introduces himself
as John Doe. He's the family
butler. Talk to him about "Matt
Engarde". The guy says he
doesn't think Engarde is capable
of murder.

Now ask about "John Doe". He
says he's served at the mansion
for about a year. Now ask about
"Shoe". You'll throw away Matt's
Note after this. Doe then takes
his leave. Oddly, Phoenix
doesn't think it strange that
Matt made you come here to feed
Shoe even though the butler
already did it. Man, he
overlooks simple details. Head
back to the Hotel Lobby now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
Present the Letter of
Introduction. She's delighted to
see something from Edgeworth and
Oldbag will allow you to tour
the hotel again. She comes back
a second later to tell you that
Engarde's Hotel Room is off
limits. The police are
investigating that room all day
so you can't enter. Move to the
Hallway.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Hallway
--------------------------------
You'll meet up with Lotta as you
enter the Hallway. Talk to her
about "Night of the murder".
There isn't much info to be had
here as neither Oldbag nor Lotta
were here the entire time. Now
ask about "Scandal". Lotta says
it's best not to believe that
info from her camera. She
actually just wrote it on a
hunch. Now ask about the
"Camera". Turns out Edgeworth
came by a little while earlier
and said the camera needs to be
kept on account of it's still
evidence. Lotta then takes her
leave. Head to Corrida's Hotel
Room.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Corrida's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
Yeah, Oldbag somehow managed to
get into the room. She says she
came down here to pay her
respects to Juan and you're
interrupting. Ask about "Night
of the murder". She says she was
tricked by that fraud of a
photographer. She says she had
more to do than just stand
around the hallway. Ask about
"Memories of Corrida" now. She
thinks that he was going to
become a huge star one day and
beat Engarde. Pearl points out
that all of the presents that
Juan has recieved are bears.

Ask about "Presents" now. Some
time ago Juan had a fight with a
bear, and in the end they
somehow became friends. Uh...so,
since that incident, people have
sent him bears in appreciation
of what he had done. Just before
you can talk much more, De
Killer calls again.

De Killer is ticked that even
with his present you still
weren't able to pull of a not
guilty verdict. He will give you
one last chance to pull through.
Before you get to hear news of
Maya, the transceiver happens to
start malfunctioning. Head back
to Wright & Co. now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Wright &
Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Gumshoe is still here and
wanting to help, so he allows
you to ask him anything. The
only new things you can do would
be to present the Radio
Tranceiver. Phoenix turns the
transceiver back on, but it
appears to be working just fine
right now. Gumshoe suspects
electromagnetic interference.
Talk about "Electromagnetic
interference" now. He says that
is what occurs when radio
signals get mixed with other
signals. Gumshoe says that
something in the room you were
just in must have been emitting
strong radio waves that could
interfere with the transceiver.
Something like a listening
device. Gumshoe says he's going
to get a bug sweeper to check
for anything suspicious at the
crime scene. Head back to
Corrida's Hotel Room.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Corrida's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
Gumshoe says he was kicked out
of the precinct and couldn't get
his hands on a bug sweeper. He
did manage to get one, and it
happens to be the one he made in
elementary school. Whatever
works, I guess. However, the
device will go off at any source
of waves. You will then have to
move the scanner around the
room, checking for any major
source of radio waves. There are
several objects here that will
make the scanner beep very fast.
However, the item you want is
the bear in the left corner of
the left side of the room. It's
the tall bear that towers over
the rest of them.

Gumshoe comes in an deduces that
tha listenting device is set up
inside this bear. He will rip
the eye out of the bear. Turns
out there was a camera inside
all along, and there's a
transmitter and timer as well.
Talk to Gumshoe about the
"Camera". He says this kind of
camera is only used in security
systems. The footage the camera
recieves is sent to a receiver
somewhere else, and that's where
it is recorded. SPY CAMERA will
be added to the Court Record.
Now ask about the "Transmitter".
This device sends the footage
from the camera elsewhere. The
timer attatchment can turn the
camera on and off on its own.
The camera was set to turn on at
8 PM and to continue on for an
hour. That was the time the
award ceremont ended.

Just perhaps this camera caught
the footage of the murder.
Judging by the angle of the
bear, it may have caught the
entire crime easily. TRANSMITTER
infomation will be added to the
Court Record. Ask about the
"Stuffed bear" now. It is
unknown who gave the bear as a
present. This does mean that
somebody caught the footage of
the murder. SUFFED BEAR
infomation will be added to the
Court Record. Gumshoe has an
idea. He's going to take the
camera and see if he can find
who bought it. The Spy Camera
and Transmitter will be handed
back to Gumshoe.

Edgeworth will appear now. He
says he heard the entire story,
as well as mentioning a rescue
team is out searching for Maya.
Edgeworth says that the maker of
the bear is overseas. Very few
of them are exported here. By
tracking where the bear came
from, we can find the owner. The
Stuffed Bear will be handed to
Edgeworth.

Everything just seems odd now.
Juan Corrida's death, Adrian's
past, De Killer who is demanding
an acquittal for his client Matt
Engarde, and the shell card.
Save the game.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Investigation-Part 4-6
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Corrida's Hotel Room
--------------------------------
Pearl questions if Maya has
already been found. She seems a
bit concerned despite things
looking your way, if only
slightly. Talk to her about "The
real killer". Both of you are
sure now that Shelly de Killer
is the one who killed Juan. The
card seems to be enough proof of
that. But then the question of
who his client is comes to mind.
Whoever the client is is still
technically a killer.

Ask about "The assassin's
client" now. Phoenix thinks it
may be Adrian, but if that were
true there would be no reason
for her to stab Juan afterwards.
Now ask about "Was it Matt?". If
Engarde did hire De Killer, he
would have to be guilty then
despite him not killing anybody
in his own blood. There were no
Psyche Locks on Matt when asked
if he killed Juan. Now Phoenix
brings up that Adrian mentioned
something interesting in court.
Ask about "Something
interesting".

Juan had bet everything on the
Jammin' Ninja winning. If he
lost, he intended to take down
Matt with him. Somehow, Juan got
a powerful secret that would
destroy Matt's career. Since
Juan planned to reveal this
secret, Matt would have plenty
of motive to kill him, or at
least hire an assassin to. You
need to visit Engarde now. Head
to the Viola Hall.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Gatewater
Hotel; Viola Hall
--------------------------------
Oldbag meets you here. She says
that someone gave her a tracking
device and was told to search
out the hotel for anything
suspicious. The request came
from Edgeworth so she doesn't
have any real complaints. Talk
to her about the "Bug sweeper".
She has heard that the camera
was found in one of the bears,
but she thinks it was to capture
Adrian's and Juan's scadalous
meeting. She also thinks that
Lotta planted the camera inside
the bear. Now ask about "Juan
and Adrian".

Juan really seemed to like his
old manager, Celeste. Oldbag
says she was supposed to get
married to Juan. She killed
herself just three days after
the marriage announcement. Now
ask about "Celeste's suicide"
further. Oldbag says she was
thrown away by Juan. Juan
cancelled the marriage three
days after it was announced. She
isn't aware of why he cancelled
it, however. Head over to the
Criminal Affairs Department.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
The chief in here will alert you
that the police have found what
they have been looking for-a
real decisive witness. The chief
also says you should know this
person well. Edgeworth also has
allowed you special permission
to visit the Detention Center
past visitor's hours. Head over
there right now.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Choose to talk to "Matt Engarde"
right now. You won't get any
information from Adrian until
later. Ask about "Juan and
Adrian" right now. He doesn't
know or care about Juan's life.
Perhaps he is connected to
Celeste's suicide. Now ask about
"Matt's secret". Five Psyche
Locks will appear over Matt.
There isn't anything you can do
about the Locks right now. Some
strong evidence will be required
later. Head back to the Criminal
Affairs Department.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
You will meet up with Will
again. As it turns out, he
somehow got himself involved in
this mess. Now he's going to
testify at tomorrow's trial.
Turns out he is the decisive
witness the chief mentioned
earlier. Ask about "Tomorrow's
testimony". Will isn't sure what
he is going to testify about,
but it must be important from
what the police told him.
Unfortunately, he isn't allowed
to tell you the details. Now ask
about "Matt Engarde".

Will says that this trial is
going to seriously hurt Matt's
reputation. He has a sort of
player attitude towards women,
and usually just calls it a game
to reassure others it's nothing.
He's also said that one person
won't swoon over him; Adrian
Andrews. Now ask about "Gossip".
Will hears gossip about stars
all of the time. Will also says
he knows something about
Celeste's sudden suicide.

Ask about "Celeste's suicide"
now. Will thinks that something
bad was written on the note,
something that would hurt Juan.
Before she died, she said to
some of her friends that she was
caught by an insidious man. This
is probably referring to Juan
Corrida. That would be reason
enough for him to hide the
suicide note. Head back to the
Detention Center.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Let's get Adrian's side of the
story now. Ask about "Matt
Engarde". She mentions you don't
know the real him. Now ask about
"Celeste Inpax". She says she's
finally put her death behind
her, and now you have to bring
it up. She wanted to get the
suicide note and burn it. Now
ask about "Why frame him?". She
says she did it out of revenge.
A single Psyche Lock will appear
over her, but you can't unlock
it for a while. Head back to the
Wright & Co. Law Offices.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Wright &
Co. Law Offices
--------------------------------
Phoenix's phone will ring as you
enter. Gumshoe says there's a
big problem and he's coming to
your office. He pops in seconds
later. He says that he knows who
bought the spy camera. He
figured out quickly that he
should have been looking into
the bear and not the camera.
Anyway, he says Matt Engarde
bought the bear and the camera.
That's totally not good. Ask
about the "Stuffed bear" now. He
even has the receipt for the
purchase of the bear. The clerk
even said himself that Engarde
bought the bear. CREDIT CARD
RECEIPT added to the Court
Record.

Ask about the "Spy camera" now.
SPY CAMERA, TRANSMITTER, and
STUFFED BEAR will be re-added to
the Court Record. This doesn't
bode well. We need to discover
why Matt planted this camera.
Head back to the Detention
Center.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Phoenix says that it's about
time he told you the truth.
Present the Magatama and get to
the bottom of this mess.

--------------------------------
~Matt Engarde's Magatama Secret-
Matt's Secret~
--------------------------------
Matt still protests he doesn't
know anything about Juan. You
need to present something that
shows Matt was paying attention
to Juan that night. Present the
Spy Camera. Matt now asks where
the camera was hidden. Present
the Stuffed Bear. The first lock
will break. Now Matt starts
playing dumb and asks who would
have sent the bear. Present Matt
Engarde's profile.

Matt still doesn't want to have
any of his locks break. You need
to present proof that he put the
camera into the bear. Present
the Credit Card Receipt. Matt
protests that the money on the
receipt could be for an
expensive toothbrush he bought a
while ago. The second lock will
break off now. Now you need to
present the reason why he would
hide the camera in Juan's room
to begin with. Present the
Picture Card. Matt quickly says
that he doesn't know anyone by
the name Shelly de Killer. You
need to say how he knows De
Killer. Choose "you're his
client". Since he set up the
camera, he knew everything that
was going to happen. The person
behind this whole murder is Matt
Engarde himself.

He then tries to consult
"himself" Uh...erm. He thinks
it's time for him to reveal his
true self. The remaining three
locks break and he pulls back
his hair, revealing a huge scar
there. He also picks up a glass
of wine. Now talk about "Matt's
secret". He comments that
there's no way he would murder
Juan himself, so he hired Shelly
to do it for him. He also gives
props to Adrian for having the
balls to pin the crime on him.
Matt says he doesn't believe
assassins. He knows assassins
are above blackmail. Matt now
reveals that he plans to use the
tape of Shelly killing Juan to
blackmail De Killer. The video
is his own "insurance".

Now ask about the "Motive for
murder". Matt did all of this,
once again, because Juan was
going to screw him over. Then he
says that all he had to do was
put on an innocent face and he
could get anyone to do what he
wanted. It worked on Adrian,
Shelly, and obviously Phoenix.
Engarde says at the end that you
still have to win the case,
otherwise Maya gets killed.
Somehow you need to pin the
murder on Matt while at the same
time letting De Killer release
Maya.

Edgeworth appears and brings you
to the police station.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Police
Station; Criminal Affairs Dept.
--------------------------------
Edgeworth will say this is the
moment you will need to decide
what your definition of a lawyer
is. Ask about "Matt Engarde".
Phoenix sort of questions his
own motives for getting his
clients free up to this point.
He disagree's with Edgeworth
when saying Engarde deserves a
proper trial. We know he is
guilty, and that scumball
doesn't deserve one. Now ask
about "Maya's situation".

Edgeworth says the only thing
you can do is fight. Now
question "Why fight?". Edgeworth
restates that the only thing
Franziska fights for is her
perfect win streak. He then says
that when Phoenix destroyed his
perfect win record, that's when
he started seeing what it really
meant to be a prosecutor.

De Killer then calls. He asks if
you are still capable of getting
an acquittal tomorrow. He says
that the whole kidnapping
situation is his "aftercare".
He's completing his client
relations to ensure that no harm
comes to his clients. He was
unlucky this time to have his
client arrested. In order to
ensure the end would turn out
well, he hired Phoenix. Just
before the end of the broadcast
you will hear a cat meow. This
can only mean that Shelly is
holding Maya hostage at Matt
Engarde's house. Move there
immediately!

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Engarde
Mansion; Living Room
--------------------------------
Edgeworth arrives and says the
entire mansion has been
surrounded. If De Killer is
still here, he has no way of
escaping. Examine the room now,
and focus on the bear sitting on
the floor on the right side of
the room. There are a lot of
cuts in the bear for some
reason. FIGURINE will be added
to the Court Record. Edgeworth
and Phoenix break down the door
next to the figurine. This room
has all the equipment Maya
discovered earlier. Phoenix
demands that the tapes be
searched for anything important.
Convenient that there be a VCR
and recieving antennae, eh?
There's nothing in the tapes,
however. Move to the Wine
Cellar.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Engarde
Mansion; Wine Cellar
--------------------------------
Sadly, De Killer and Maya have
already up and left. Examine the
object hanging by the bottom of
the stairs. It's a picture of
Celeste Inpax with the words
"With love...Celeste" written on
it. The same picture Maya found
earlier. CELESTE'S PHOTO will be
added to the Court Record. Pearl
says there's something written
on the back. It reads "Maya".
She says that she demands you
get Engarde a guilty sentence
and not to worry about her,
she's just fine. Before you
leave, Edgeworth will contact
the Detention Center and alert
them that you'll need to talk to
Adrian one last time.

--------------------------------
Date-March 22 Location-Detention
Center; Visitor's Room
--------------------------------
Adrian seems to be toying with
you and dares you to break her
lock. Present the Magatama so we
can get the last bit of
information we need for this
case.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Magatama
Secret-Why Frame Him?~
--------------------------------
Phoenix says he heard Adrian
mention something about revenge
earlier. You need to show
something or someone that would
make her want revenge. Present
the Suicide Report. There's only
one event in her life that would
make her want revenge, and that
was Celeste's death. Now you
need to present something that
links the relation between
Celeste and Matt. Present
Celeste's Photo. She knows that
you found this picture at
Engarde's Mansion. The Psyche
Lock breaks. Ask about "Why
frame him?" now.

Celeste didn't want to get
married to Juan because of Matt.
Celeste was Matt's manager a
long time ago. Adrian was
working part time back then.
That's how the picture turned
up. Adrian says that Celeste was
just being used, until one day
she was thrown away. Celeste was
aware a scandal would demolish
Matt's good image, so she moved
to Worldwide Studios. She met
Juan there. Everything seemed
fine with him until the wedding
was called off. On the night it
was called off, Celeste killed
herself. That's why she framed
Matt. To get revenge for Celeste
and herself.

Now ask about "Revenge". Juan
called off the wedding because
Matt confessed his love with
Celeste. Matt was waiting for
the moment that telling Juan
about his previous relationship
would hurt him most. Juan
discovered her body and suicide
note. He hide her note because
the note contained a secret
about Matt. It would have been
damaging to his image. Juan
wanted revenge, so he was going
to announce what the suicide
note contained. Adrian admits
she thought Matt was the
murderer when she found Juan.
She took the chance to search
for the suicide note. When she
couldn't find the note, she then
resorted the revenge. Save the
game. The big trial is coming
up.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 4-7
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Just before the trial, Phoenix
has the same dream that he had
in the opening of the first
case. He dreams the Judge deems
him no longer worthy of being a
defense attorney, and kills him
with his gavel. He's going into
trial trying to prove a killer
innocent...

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 9:43 AM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Phoenix's phone will ring, and
Engarde will be on the other
end. He taunts you, saying to do
your best while Maya's life is
on the line. Mia will appear
now. Phoenix's phone rings
again, this time it's Gumshoe on
the other end. He says he was
let back onto the investigation
team and they are trying to
capture De Killer. They have no
leads, but they are trying their
hardest. If they can get Maya
out, then you can safely get a
guilty verdict. Gumshoe also
says if you work with Edgeworth
to stall the trial there still
may be hope.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 10:00 AM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 3
--------------------------------
The Judge will recap the events
of yesterday's trial. The main
question right now is Adrian's
role in the murder. It may be
possible that she isn't even
connected to this crime. Adrian
forged evidence to throw
suspicion on Matt, then escaped
in the Nickel Samurai costume if
you remember. Edgeworth then
present Shelly's card. He says
that Juan was killed by this
assassin. Edgeworth then calls
Will Powers to testify. He was
in the area on the night of the
murder and went inside Matt's
room. He'll testify about that.

--------------------------------
~Will Powers' Testimony-Visit to
Matt's Room~
--------------------------------
-After the award ceremony, I
 went by myself to Matt's room.

-Matt was standing there in
 front of his room. still in his
 Nickel Samurai
costume.

-He was talking with someone. At
 first, I thought it was the
 bellboy.

-I watched the two of them for a
 while, but then I gave up and
 went back.

-I had guests with me that
 night, and I couldn't make them
 wait for me.

Press the first statement. Will
was Matt's mentor, so he wanted
to talk to him for a bit. Will
will stop talking thinking
Phoenix is going to pin the
murder on him. Now press the
fourth statement where he said
he watched Matt for a while.
Will says he saw something
strange. He saw Matt give the
bellboy a tip. Now press the
third statement, about how he
thought he saw a bellboy. He
will say that he didn't seem
like a normal bellboy. His line
of testimony will change to the
following:

-Matt gave the bellboy a tip.

Press this new statement. Will
says that Matt paid the bellboy
a large sum. As if that wasn't
enough, he even saw the
bellboy's face after that. Ask
about "Engarde's tip" in more
detail. Will can't even guess at
how much money was given because
it was wrapped up in a huge
roll. The Judge starts to make
you look suspicious. Choose to
"Raise an objection".

Edgeworth says that the wad of
cash was payment for the murder
of Juan Corrida. The bellboy
Will say then was the assassin
himself. He then present Shelly'
business card. Will now says
that he saw the bellboy a second
time that night.

--------------------------------
~Will Powers' Testimony-The
Second Time~
--------------------------------
-This time, I was in that
 hallway because I had to go to
 the bathroom!

-And that's when that bellboy I
 saw earlier came out of the
 room!

-Of course, when I say "room", I
 mean Juan Corrida's room!

-Now that I think about it, that
 bellboy did seem kinda out of
 place!

-Yeah! So he had to be the
 assassin! I'm sure of it!

Press the fourth statement where
Will says the bellboy seemed out
of place. The odd thing was that
the bellboy was empty handed.
Choose to "Try to pull a fast
one" here. Edgeworth says that
there isn't any reason for them
to ever be empty handed. This
line of testimony will change to
the following:

-I thought it was kinda strange
 for a bellboy to come out of a
 guest's
room empty-handed!

Press this new statement. Will
thinks it's suspicous because
the bellboy was holding a tray
when he first saw him. He was
carrying a bottle of juice and a
wine glass. He says it was
tomato juice. Present the Crime
Photo here. In the photo you can
see the glass of tomato juice as
well as the wine glass. All the
bellboy did was bring the tray
to Juan Corrida's room and drop
it off. It was perfectly logical
for him to leave with nothing
afterwards.

Edgeworth says there's one other
important detail Will saw. He
noticed the bellboy wearing
gloves. He says he was wearing
suspicous black, leather gloves,
which is different from the
other bellboy's.

--------------------------------
~Will Powers' Testimony-Their
Second Meeting~
--------------------------------
-After leaving Juan's room, the
 bellboy went and knocked on
 Matt's door,
just like that.

-He gave something to the person
 inside the room.

-Then the old guy just left,
 without even going into the
 room.

-After that, I went to the
 bathroom and then back to my
 seat.

Press the second statement,
about how the bellboy gave
something to the man in the
room. You can ask him two
options now. "Ask about this
'something'" first. He says it
was a small item, but he isn't
too sure on the details. Press
this statement again and "Ask
about the person inside". Will
didn't see the face of the
person, just the arm. Edgeworth
now stops you and recaps the
testimony. The bellboy left
Juan's room to go to Matt's
room, handed him a small item,
then left.

This moment is important because
it reveals what was removed from
the crime scene and was handed
to Matt. He'll add this line to
his testimony:

-If I saw it again, I could say
 for sure, but I think it was
 some sort of
wooden statue.

Present the Figurine that you
found at Engarde's Mansion.
Turns out this small bear is the
item that he saw. Edgeworth now
proposes that Shelly killed Juan
in his room, then stole the
wooden bear from the crime
scene. It goes without saying
that Matt is De Killer's client.
The Judge is about to end the
trial, but Phoenix says there
are points that still haven't
been covered. Choose to question
further "The bear itself". The
bear was found at Engarde's
Mansion, but Matt was arrested
at the hotel. He hasn't had a
chance to go home and place the
bear there.

It isn't possible for Matt to
have taken the bear to the
mansion. Edgeworth comes in and
says that Engarde's butler was
none other than De Killer, which
is understandable since they
were working together. He
assumes Matt had De Killer bring
it to his house since it would
have been bad if the bear was
found at the crime scene. You
will be given the three options
again on what you think was
shaky in Will's testimony. Now
question "The person who
received the bear".

Will hasn't made clear who gave
the bear to whom. He remembers
now the arm belonged to the
Nickel Samurai. The Judge is
ready to end the trial because
this makes Matt look completely
guilty. Choose to "Raise an
objection". It is entirely
plausible that Matt is De
Killer's client, however, there
is another suspect. Present
Adrian Andrews' profile. She put
on the spare Nickel Samurai
costume after all, and this
easily could have been the hand
that Will saw. Edgeworth isn't
too sure whether this is true or
not.

Well of course were lying! We
just need to stall for time.
Edgeworth then says that the
figurine bear hides a big secret
that will reveal who the true
killer is. He is sure that by
making Adrian testify this whole
murder will be cleared up. A
short recess will be called.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 11:54 AM
Location-District Court;
Defendant Lobby No. 3
--------------------------------
Matt greets you and says he's
surprised in your desperate
efforts to save Maya that you
would resort to pinning the
murder on Adrian. Pearl returns
and says that Mia was called
away. Phoenix's phone rings
again. It's Gumshoe once again.
Mia comes back and says that she
was able to see a circus tent
when she was in Maya's body.
Gumshoe says the Berry Big
Circus is still in town. This
must be where De Killer is
keeping Maya. Gumshoe will set
off right away to rescue Maya.
There's nothing left to do but
stall court long enough until
Maya gets rescued.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 12:05 PM
Location-District Court;
Courtroom No. 3
--------------------------------
Adrian has appeared now, and
states that she has seen the
bear before. She will tell you
the secrets this bear holds.

--------------------------------
~Adrian Andrews' Testimony-The
Bear Figurine~
--------------------------------
-Actually, this is an elaborate
 puzzle.

-If you know the correct order,
 it can be taken apart one piece
 at a time.

-At its center is a small
 cavity, with just enough room
 to store a small
item.

-Because of its complexity, if
 you don't know the order, you
 can't open
the bear.

-You really can't tell that it's
 a small "jewelry box" just by
 looking at
it.

Press the first statement.
You'll find nothing here. Now
press the second statement.
Adrian will mention how the bear
can be taken apart. Now press
the third statement. She knows
this because she was the one who
bought it. She thought it would
be a nice present for Juan.
Press her fourth statement next.
Only her and Juan knew how to
solve the puzzle. Press the
final statement. FIGURINE will
be updated in the Court Record.
After pressing all the
statement, Phoenix will give up
finding a contradiction.

Now Edgeworth asks what is
inside of the bear. Adrian opens
up the bear and finds a note
inside. Not just any note, but
Celeste Inpax's suicide note. It
was, as suspected, hidden by
Juan himself. Celeste even
signed this note. Adrian
actually knew about this note
already. That's why when she
found Juan she wanted to quickly
find the bear and note and
destroy it. She couldn't find it
because De Killer already took
it. The Judge will read the note
aloud. You already know the gist
of the story, though.

Now Edgeworth present Matt's
motive for murder. Since Juan
was going to reveal the contents
of this note, Matt had to stop
him at all costs. CELESTE'S
SUICIDE NOTE will be added to
the Court Record. De Killer was
hired to get this note and kill
the person who had. Engarde
hired him, clearly. You are
capable of going more indepth to
one of the major pieces of
evidence. Choose "Celeste's
Suicide Note".

There's a slight contradiction
here. How did Matt learn what
was written on the note?
Egdeworth presents the spy
camera that Matt setup. Juan was
being spied upon, and this is
how Matt learned of what was
contained on the note. Edgeworth
then says the camera he has
isn't the one from the stuffed
bear's eye. He went to Engarde's
Mansion to search for more clues
and found the Matt's
fingerprints on the camera. Mia
says, however, these is still
one piece of evidence that
requires more investigation.
Choose to "Present evidence".
Present Celeste's Suicide Note.
The handwriting on the note has
yet to be analyzed. It may not
even be Celeste's at all!

Gumshoe finally calls. Sadly, De
Killer managed to escape. His
hideout was discovered, but him
and Maya have already up and
left. Gumshoe then demands to
talk to Edgeworth. Yeah, that
doesn't go over so well. The
Judge calls off the court
proceedings for the day, but
then Edgeworth objects. He will
call a final recess for the
handwriting analysis.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 2:04 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
You'll meet up with Edgeworth
right away. Phoenix's phone
rings again. Gumshoe reports
that De Killer left behind
several things in his desperate
attempt to escape. He says that
he has the items and is bringing
them over as evidence as we
speak. He should be here in
about 20 minutes, just barely
enough time before court
reconvenes. A loud bang can be
heard from the phone and the
line goes dead. Looks like
Gumshoe just crashed into
something. Is there any way you
can find his location? Choose
"There is a way." Present
Franziska's profile. She has a
tracking device installed on
Gumshoe, remember?

Edgeworth leaves to find the
results of the handwriting
analysis. Save the game now.

=~=~=~=~=~=~=~
Trial-Part 4-8
=~=~=~=~=~=~=~

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 2:35 PM Location-
District Court; Courtroom No. 3
--------------------------------
Edgeworth doesn't seem so happy
when you enter court. The note
has ended up to be a forgery. It
wasn't written by Celeste Inpax.
He then says the handwriting
matches that of Juan Corrida.
Looks liek Celeste never did
leave a suicide note. However,
Matt could not have known this
note was a fake and the main
facts remain unchanged. Phoenix
thinks something is wrong with
this. Choose to "Present
evidence". Present the Spy
Camera. If Matt had spied on
Juan, he would have known as
well that the note was a fake
and wouldn't go to the trouble
of killing him over it.

Matt's main motive for murder
has now completely changed to
something unknown at the moment.
Edgeworth states that it could
have been written at an unknown
place, and Phoenix demands he
present evidence to back that
up. He then says he has onle
final witness, and this one
isn't normal. It's the one
person that can answer who hired
Shelly de Killer. He is actually
going to make Shelly de Killer
testify. Well, via a radio
transceiver, at least. He makes
Maya speak into the radio to
prove that he is De Killer. He
then says he did kill Juan
Corrida at the request of a
client.

--------------------------------
~Shelly de Killer's Testimony-
About My Client~
--------------------------------
-There is something I must first
 state.

-To an assassin, nothing is more
 important than the trust
 between a client
and himself.

-And that is the reason I am
 here today on this witness
 stand.

-It is my wish that you grasp
 this concept before I give the
 name of my
client.

Press De Killer on his second
statement, about his trust.
Phoenix asks if anyone has ever
stabbed him in the back, and De
Killer says that if one of his
clients did so, they wouldn't be
his client for very long. Now
press the third statement. He
says that he's fine with saying
the name because his client
broke the rules by trying to pin
the crime on someone else. Now
press the second statement
again. De Killer thinks you
understand his logic since one
of his clients broke his trust,
so he's going to go back on his
word. This next line of
testimony gets added:

-Now then, I do believe it's
 about time I revealed the name
 of my client,
don't you agree?

Press this new statement, of
course. He says that Adrian
Andrews is his client.
Wait...what? Isn't it Engarde?
What the hell? Looks like De
Killer just stabbed Edgeworth in
the back. Adrian comes in and
says that everything De Killer
said was a lie. The Judge will
ask if you want the trial to
continue a little longer. Choose
"Request the trial continue". De
Killer will be contacted again.
He'll go indepth about his
client.

--------------------------------
~Shelly de Killer's Testimony-
About My Client, Pt. 2~
--------------------------------
-As I have already stated quite
 a few times, Adrian Andrews is
 my client.
However.

-One thing I simply cannot
 overlook is tampering with the
 scene of the
crime.

-My client did it to frame
 another for the crime.

-While pretending to be the
 first person to discover the
 body and enter
the scene,

-Adrian Andrews already knew
 from the very beginning that
 Juan Corrida was
dead!

-But even more appalling is the
 creation and planting of the
 "knife" and
"button".

-That act is what I was
 referring to when I said my
 client has "broken the
rules".

Present the Wine Glass at the
fifth statement, when De Killer
says Adrian knew Juan was dead.
When Adrian entered the room,
there's no way she knew that
Juan was dead. Had the glass
been planned, then there
wouldn't be fingerprints at all.
If Adrian was really his client,
she would have known about his
death. This only means that
Adrian couldn't be his client.
Looks like we just need to have
De Killer play along a little
longer...

--------------------------------
~Shelly de Killer's Testimony-
Request Taking~
--------------------------------
-This request came to me...oh,
 about a week ago.

-It was a request for my
 services on the night of the
 awards ceremony.

-We met at a certain bar to
 discuss and finalize a few
 matters.

-That is what occurred. I trust
 my memory, and I believe I have
 made no
mistakes.

Press his third statement, about
meeting the client in a bar. De
Killer stops talking for a
second. "Press further" when
asked. The Judge will ask if any
of this is important. Choose "It
is not important" for now. De
Killer says that by talking face
to face with him that he builds
trust. The Judge will ask again
if this was important. Choose
"It was very important". The
following line of testimony will
be added:

-From the moment I saw him, I
 thought, "I can trust this
 person as a
client."

Present Adrian Andrews' profile
here. I'm pretty sure Adrian is
a woman, not a man. There's no
way he could have met Adrian
Andrews if he thinks she was a
guy. The problem here is that
Adrian can be either a man's or
woman's name, so De Killer made
the mistake of assuming it was a
guy. Now he says he confused
Adrian with another client, and
will speak for real.

--------------------------------
~Shelly de Killer's Testimony-
Request Taking, Pt. 2~
--------------------------------
-Yes, now I remember. I took
 that request by mail.

-There have been times when I
 took a job without having met
 my client.

-The request was for the murder
 of Juan Corrida and 2 or 3
 other small
things.

-When I saw the name at the end
 of the letter, I thought my
 client to be a
man.

Press the third statement, about
the request to kill Corrida
amoung other things. He says
these things have nothing to do
with the current case. "Press
further". De Killer now asks why
you have continued this cross
examination when everything he
has said has been beneficial to
Engarde. Now he starts thinking
that you are about to betray
Matt. Choose to "Press further"
even though it seems suicidal.
He mentions the bear figurine.
After the assassination he was
told to find the figurine. The
figurine was inside Juan's
suitcase. Then he gave the bear
to the client. His line of
testimony will change to this:

-One of these was to find the
 bear figurine and to give it to
 Adrian
Andrews.

Press this new statement. De
Killer says he was waiting for
Adrian at Engarde's Mansion.
Choose "There is a
contradiction" when the Judge
asks if there's a problem with
this. Mia says you will need to
present strong evidence to keep
this going. Choose to "Present
evidence". Present the Figurine
now.

If he had really given the bear
to him, the fake suicide note
wouldn't be inside of it. Adrian
says if she got her hands on the
note, she would have burned it.
By the fact that the note was
still in the bear, the client
didn't know how to disassemble
the bear. It is now impossible
for Adrian to be his client. De
Killer then states that unless
you do something, and fast, he
will kill Maya. Edgeworth then
rests his actions. Engarde is
brought to the stand and reveals
his true self. Phoenix then must
decide if he wants to keep going
for this verdict. Choose
"Guilty". Stupid ass. Before you
get the chance to announce it...

Franziska makes a huge entrance
into the courtroom. Wow, she
actually managed to help us with
something. Dayum. The final
pieces of evidence you need are
within Gumshoe's coat. The first
item Franziska presents is a
pistol. Phoenix will wonder if
this is important. "Question for
more details". She thinks this
is the pistol used to shoot her.
PISTOL will be added to the
Court Record. The second piece
of evidence is a video tape.
"Question for more details".
There was no time for her to
check the tape. De Killer must
have wanted it because he came
back to his hideout to retrieve
it, but failed.

VIDEO TAPE will be added to the
Court Record. The last piece of
evidence is the bellboy's
uniform. "Question for more
details". She's almost certain
that this was used during the
crime. There's even a pair of
black gloves in it. She also
says a button is missing from
the uniform. BELLBOY'S UNIFORM
will be added to the Court
Record. Sadly, the question here
is who was the client and not
who did the killing. These items
can't be used.

Mia says there is a way to make
a miracle happen. There are two
ways out of this situation.
First, you can make Matt Engarde
WANT a guilty verdict. The
second way is to make De Killer
end his contract with Engarde.
If he didn't want Engarde as his
client, he wouldn't follow him
anymore. The Judge says he
doesn't need the evidence. So,
who does? It's time to save the
game. Your final action will
determine which ending you get.

================================
  ~9.The Good and Bad Endings~
================================
From the previous point I have
mentioned to save, you have the
option of either getting the
Good Ending, or the Bad Ending,
depending on your next action. I
recommend you see both of them
at least once. Once you get an
ending you can restart from the
save point and get the other
ending. We'll start with the bad
ending so you have something to
look forward to when you see the
depressing ending screen.

=~=~=~=~=~
Bad Ending
=~=~=~=~=~
If you want this ending, don't
present De Killer's profile and
you will ensure you get this
ending. Choose to present any
item after that. The Judge will
then announce his verdict of Not
Guilty on Matt Engarde. Adrian
Andrew's goes to jail then.

Just like that, the trial is
over. Phoenix runs away from the
courtroom afterwards, never to
see Maya again. He knows that
she would be released, though,
since De Killer is a man of his
word. Now you get the best
sentence ever in an ending
screen. "The miracle never
happen". Way to screw up a bad
ending, huh? The case ends after
that. No credits, just one sad
screen to leave you thinking
about your awful choice. Go
restart from the save and get
the exciting, good ending now!

=~=~=~=~=~=
Good Ending
=~=~=~=~=~=
The Judge will give you one last
chance to turn the entire trial
around. You need to free Maya
and get Engarde a guilty verdict
at the same time. Present Shelly
de Killer's profile as the
person you want to show evidence
to, then present the Video Tape
as the thing you want to show
him. Edgeworth will say that
this may be of some interest.

De Killer will be brought in
again. De Killer was told to
protect the video tape at all
costs from his client. De Killer
was told not to watch the
contents of the tape, so he
doesn't know what they are.
Surprisingly, De Killer is the
one on the tape. The video was
set at the crime scene, and all
of his actions were being
recorded. The only person who
could have planted the camera
was his client, Matt Engarde. He
purposefully specified the time
of murder so he could catch De
Killer on the tape.

De Killer asks why Engarde would
do this. Choose that Matt
"wanted blackmail on you." He
never trusted De Killer at all,
so he was going to use the tape
as blackmail. That's what Matt
is good at; lying and deceiving
others. De Killer says since his
own client is a traitor, he
would end the contract right
away. The client would then
become his next target. To keep
his name he would ensure the
traitor would get what's coming
to him. De Killer hangs up,
saying his contract is over. He
says he'll gladly return Maya.

Well, this wraps up the trial.
Matt got the acquittal he
wanted, but an assassin is going
to be out to get him the rest of
his life. "Plead guilty" here.
Engarde then goes insane and
claws the hell out of his face.
What a great ending animation.
Adrian appears at the end and
says that she felt saved when
Phoenix and Edgeworth teamed up
to defend her.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 5:14 PM Location-
District Court; Defendant Lobby
No. 3
--------------------------------
Mia says there's more to just a
not guilty verdict. She says the
difficult choice he had to make
defines what he think it meant
to be a lawyer. Edgeworth
appears and says that Maya is
safe and sound. Pearl appears
and is delighted to know that.
Franziska appears and says you
should have nothing to be happy
about since you lost. Edgeworth
says that perhaps one day she
will be able to understand. He
retells his story from the
previous game, and says even the
prosecutors would need to have
faith in the defense attorneys.

Phoenix says he felt betrayed
when Edgeworth suddenly left. He
told himself that Edgeworth had
died, instead of really thinking
of the matter. Franziska says
that neither Edgeworth nor
herself are worthy of the Von
Karma name. Franziska runs away,
dropping her electromagnetic
receiver. She also dropped her
whip.

Maya appears next. Oh what a
happy reunion. Edgeworth then
says he's glad Maya turned out
fine. Then Maya demands that you
all go out for food.

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 7:38 PM Location-
Gatewater Hotel; Hotel Lobby
--------------------------------
You'll meet Gumshoe as you
arrive. Turns out the fool hit a
telephone pole. Good job. Lotta
and Will are here to
congratulate you as well. Lotta
seems to have bought herself a
new camera, and everyone heads
to the Viola Hall. Will mentions
that the three items saved the
day, and Gumshoe stops. He says
he found four items, not three.
Maya said to keep her mind off
of being kidnapped she drew a
picture. She doesn't know where
it went, however.

Franziska's electromagnetic
receiver goes off again. Even
though Gumshoe is standing right
here, the device is pointing
elsewhere. You can present
evidence to show Edgeworth how
you feel. Present Franziska's
Whip. She helped bring this case
to an end as well. Everyone then
says they bought something in
Phoenix's name, leaving him
totally confused. Maya says you
should just let it all out. Yell
"OBJECTION!" into the mic and
enjoy the credits!

--------------------------------
Date-March 23, 9:42 PM Location-
International Departures; Gate
12
--------------------------------
Edgeworth meets up with
Franziska at the airport.
Franziska doesn't care much
about the last item since the
case is over. She also points
out she has quit being a
prosecutor. She then says her
revenge was to beat Phoenix and
become better than Edgeworth.
Franziska finally takes her
leave, and she presents the last
piece of evidence-the picture
Maya made. That's the end of the
game!

================================
~10.Frequently Asked Questions~
================================
These are just a group of
questions that I see asked on
the message boards quite often.
If it can't easily be answered
elsewhere, you can probably find
the answer to your simple
question here.

Q:Why do most people hate this
game compared to the original?

A:There's only four cases to
this game compared to the
original's five. Also, the first
three cases in this game are
complete and utter crap in many
people's eyes, making just the
fourth case the only great case
in this game. The original
Phoenix Wright had three good
cases.

Q:I can't find this game
anywhere!

A:EBay, Amazon, Play-Aisa, those
are just three of the websites
you can easily buy this game
from if you really can't find it
anywhere. Also, due to the lack
of replay value it's highly
likely you can find this game
used at some retailers. Just do
a little hunting and resort to
buying off of the internet as a
last resort.

Q:Is there any difference
between the good and bad
endings?

A:The bad ending has a really
horrible grammar mistake that
totally ruins the mood, but
other than that it's just a nice
effect to have two different
outcomes. For those curious, the
third Phoenix Wright game takes
place after the good ending, so
I recommend you at least get
that ending once.

Q:Why must all of these cases be
murder cases?

A:What else COULD they be? It's
not like you can accuse someone
of giving someone else a heart
attack or something. Case 2
changed it up a bit by making it
a car accident, but other than
that it isn't like the entire
case revolves around the death.
Any player should know that
these cases go much further than
that.

Q:What makes Edgeworth so great?

A:He just is. It's difficult
explaining the opinions of
others but...if you have played
the first game you should know
he's badass. Edgeworth is also
far less annoying than Franziska
and Manfred von Karma (Although
Manfred has his own level of
badassery reserved for him).

Q:How do I reset the game?

A:Hold down the B and R buttons
as you load up the game. You'll
be asked to confirm if you
really want to erase all saved
data. Like any other game,
erased data cannot be recovered.
You will have to unlock the
cases manually again if you
erase the game.

================================
          ~11.Credits~
================================
Myself-For putting the time to
make this

You, the reader-For making this
walkthrough seem worthwhile.
Good to know I helped you.

CJayC-For hosting the greatest
website to hold such
walkthroughs like this.

This walkthrough is Copyright
Deathborn 668.