********************************

   Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of
   Almia FAQ/Walkthrough
      For the Nintendo DS
Version 1.0 (Created 1/14/2009)
        By Devin Morgan

 This file is Copyright (c)2009
 Devin Morgan. All rights
 reserved.

********************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. Overview
5. Walkthrough
6. Pokémon List
7. Quests
8. Capture Arena
9. Ranger Net
10. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
11. Credits
12. Copyright Notice

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.0 (1/14/09): The first
and complete version of this
FAQ. The only thing that is
missing is information about the
downloadable missions due to my
lack of WiFi service. If anyone
can help with providing
information for that section, by
all means contact me.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This is the second installment
of the relatively new Pokémon
Ranger series for the Nintendo
DS. It contains the same
Pokémon-capturing elements of
the original series, but with
several key differences. Instead
of using items and playing in a
more traditional RPG setting,
you "capture" Pokémon by drawing
circles around them (causing
damage) with a device called a
Styler. It is quite the unique
approach, but it actually is a
lot of fun if you get into it.
The game is very linear with
missions to complete, but there
are also optional quests and
areas you can explore, as well
as capturing all 267 Pokémon in
the game. The game is not for
everyone though, but it really
is fun, so if you like Pokémon
games, I would certainly
recommend this one!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

NOTE: Most of the controls are
done entirely by using the touch
screen; below
 are the usable buttons which
 sometimes serve the same
 purpose.

Control Pad: Move character,
move cursor on some menu screens

A: Confirm selection

B: Cancel selection

L: Switch between map and Friend
Pokémon data on top screen

R: Access menu screen

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=================
Capturing Pokémon
=================

As you will learn, the main
premise of this game is to
capture Pokémon. You do that by
drawing circles around them with
your Styler on the touch screen.
When you meet a Pokémon in any
area, you enter a battle screen
where the Pokémon (one or
several) will wander around,
performing their special moves.
Each time you draw a complete
circle around a Pokémon, a meter
above/below it will partially
fill. By drawing more circles,
the meter will continue to fill
until it is at its maximum, at
which point you will have
captured that Pokémon.

When you draw circles, a line
will form on the screen; if it
is hit by a Pokémon's attacks,
you will lose HP and the line
will break. If you get to 0 HP,
it is game over. The Pokémon
have many different abilities,
so watch the patterns and be
prepared so you don't take
unnecessary damage. Drawing
these circles is the only way to
"win" against any Pokémon in the
game.

If you meet a Pokémon in the
wild, once you capture it, it
will stay with you as a Friend
Pokémon. You can use its
field/area/map moves (detailed
below) to get past certain
obstacles in your path. If you
engage in battle with a Pokémon
sent by another person, such as
Team Dim Sun (the equivalent of
Team Rocket in the original
games), you still capture them
in the same manner but you do
not keep them afterwards!

One last thing to note is that
early in the game, you will be
allowed to have a limited amount
of Friend Pokémon with you at a
given time. That amount will
increase as you progress through
the game. If you exceed the
current maximum of Friend
Pokémon, you will be forced to
release at least one of them. If
you capture a Pokémon in a given
area, it will not reappear in
that same spot until you release
it (by using its ability or
simply letting it go). Thus,
each Pokémon can be found in
specific locations only once,
but they return to those
locations if you free them so
you can recapture them later.


====================
Field/Area/Map Moves
====================

Most Pokémon will have special
abilities they can perform
outside of battle. Depending on
the function of these abilities,
they are called field, area, or
map moves. You must have
captured a Pokémon (so it is one
of your current Friend Pokémon)
to be able to use its special
move. When you reach an object
or other obstacle in the world,
you can tap it to find out what
move is required to clear or
otherwise affect it.

To use a Friend Pokémon's move,
you tap that Pokémon and hold
the Styler down as you drag it
from that Pokémon to the object
in question. Once you use a
Pokémon's ability, it will
return to the wild, so these
abilities are one- time uses.
Some objects will require a
certain level ability (like a
certain boulder will require you
to use Crush 3 to clear it).
That means you must use a
Pokémon with at least Crush 3 to
clear it; Crush 1 or 2 won't do
a thing. If you have someone
with Crush 4, it will work since
it is above level 3. This
applies to any instance where
you need a certain type/level
move to proceed.

In some instances, if you move
to certain locations, a "?" will
appear over your head. Depending
on the situation, you will need
to use a given Pokémon's
area/map move to trigger an
event or progress further. You
can do that simply by tapping
the appropriate Pokémon and say
yes when asked to use its move.
Just like the regular field
moves, once you finish using its
area/map move, the Pokémon will
return to where you captured it
originally.

There are a variety of special
abilities that captured Pokémon
can be used for. These abilities
are as follows (use the Pokémon
List later in the guide if you
need specific information about
who has what ability):

Field Moves
-----------

Burn 1-5
Crush 1-5
Cut 1-5
Electrify 1-3
Psy Power 1-3
Soak 1-3
Tackle 1-5
Tunnel 1


Area Moves
----------

NOTE: When you are at a location
where an area move can be used,
a "?" will
 appear over your head.

Airlift: When a small trail of
smoke is present, it allows you
to float
  across that gap.

Dark Power: Sucks you into an
alternate dimension when used by
Darkrai.

Demist: Clears the mist covering
the Chroma Highlands area.

Elevate: Allows you to float
through a hole in the ceiling
(as shown by a ray
  of light) to reach an upper
  floor.

Flash: Brightens the current
dark room/area, allowing you to
see details
 about objects and Pokémon
 around you.

Magma Flow: Allows you to ride
that Pokémon on magma.

Rain Dance: Causes rain to fall,
causing an effect on the area it
is used in.

River Flow: Allows you to ride
that Pokémon on water.

Sand Fill: Use that Pokémon's
ability to fill the hole in
front of Hippowdon
  Temple with sand.

Stink: Use that Pokémon's
ability to pollute the air in
that area.


Map Moves
---------

Agility: Allows you to ride the
Pokémon, which makes you move at
twice the
  normal walking speed.

Fly: When outdoors, allows you
to fly to any already visited
location on the
 map.

Recharge: Allows you to recover
a certain amount of HP.

Teleport: Returns you to the
entrance of the location you are
in.


============
Poké Assists
============

When you are in the process of
capturing Pokémon, you will have
the option of using something
called Poké Assists to aid you.
These are special abilities
determined by a Pokémon's type,
each of which has a certain
effect on your or your
opponent's actions in battle.
You can use these abilities by
selecting any of your current
Friend Pokémon or your Partner
Pokémon (tap the bottom right
button during battle).

When using a Poké Assist, you
will have the special powers
available for a certain amount
of time; when the timer hits 0,
the power is gone. If you use a
Friend Pokémon for a Poké
Assist, it will leave you after
the battle. If you use a Partner
Pokémon, that's a different
story. Your current partner has
a special meter above your HP
bar which fills as you capture
Pokémon. You can use its Poké
Assist for a longer time, but
once it's over, its meter will
be emptied and you will have to
fill it in order to use its
ability again.

A list of the Poké Assists and
their functions can be found
below.


Poké Assist List
----------------

Bug: Hold the Styler down to
make some slime appear, then
draw a line to pull
 it away like a slingshot. Aim
 it in the direction of the
 Pokémon, then release the
 Styler to fling the slime at
 the target, causing damage and
  temporarily slowing it down.

Dark: Draw circles around
hazards on the ground with your
Styler, and you
 will clear them from the area.

Dragon: Hold the Styler down and
a dark vortex will appear, which
will become
  larger as you hold it in
  place. When you let go, a
  meteor will fall onto that
  location a couple moments
  later. If it hits the Pokémon,
  it
   will cause lots of damage.

Electric: Hold the Styler down
and a bolt of lightning will
come down at that
  point. If it hits the Pokémon,
  it will temporarily paralyze
  it.

Fighting: Doubles the amount of
damage inflicted for each circle
drawn.

Fire: Each time you draw a
successful circle, the Pokémon
is hit with a fire
 attack which temporarily makes
 it tired.

Flying: Draw circles with the
Styler and whirlwinds will
appear, which will
  become larger and damage the
  Pokémon as you continue
  circling.

Ghost: Draw circles with the
Styler and ghosts will appear on
the ground, and
 will move around the area. If
 the Pokémon is hit by one, it
 will take some damage.

Grass: Draw with the Styler to
make grass appear, which will
slow the Pokémon
 down when it moves through the
 grass.

Ground: Move the Styler back and
forth, and the ground will
shake, causing
  the Pokémon to temporarily
  become unable to attack.

Ice: Hold the Styler down to
create a snowball, then draw
circles to make it
 bigger. You can then slide it
 towards the Pokémon to roll the
 snowball towards them, freezing
 the Pokémon and temporarily
 paralyzing it.

Normal: Slightly more damage is
inflicted for each circle drawn.

Psychic: Draw circles with the
Styler to form a psychic wave,
then slide it
  in the direction of the
  Pokémon to fling the wave
  towards it. This will cause
  damage and temporarily
  paralyze the Pokémon.

Poison: Hold the Styler down to
create a sludge puddle, then
slide it in the
  direction of the Pokémon to
  fling the puddle towards it.
  This will cause damage and
  slow them briefly.

Recharge: Depending on the level
of the ability, you will recover
a certain
  amount of HP at once (1: 10
  HP, 2: 20 HP, 3: 30 HP, 4: 40
  HP, 5: 50 HP).

Rock: Hold the Styler down and a
rock will appear where you are
holding.
 Slide it in the direction of
 the Pokémon to fling the rock
 towards it, causing damage.

Steel: Hold the Styler down to
make an energy orb appear, and
draw circles to
 make it bigger. Slide it in the
 direction of the Pokémon to
 fling the orb towards it. This
 will cause damage and
 temporarily stop them from
 attacking.

Water: Hold the Styler down to
create a bubble, then slide it
in the
 direction of the Pokémon to
 fling the bubble towards it.
 This will cause damage and slow
 them briefly.


===============
Partner Pokémon
===============

In addition to the Friend
Pokémon you obtain by capturing
them in the wild, you will be
able to take along a Partner
Pokémon as well. This Partner
Pokémon will not leave you after
you use its Poké Assist ability
in battle, or after any event
(it has no field moves to use,
either). Through the course of
the game, you will meet and
obtain many different Partner
Pokémon, but you can only have
one with you at a given time.
The other partners available to
you will be hanging around a
place called Partner Farm,
connected to Chicole Village
(you will learn about this when
you have more than one partner).


========================
Quests and Power-Up Data
========================

Throughout the course of the
game, you will be able to take
on some optional side quests. If
you look under the Quests menu,
you can see what is currently
available out there, and the
person offering it. The person
with a quest to offer will have
a "..." over their heads, and a
"!" if you are currently on
their quest. You can only accept
one quest at a time, though.
Initially, only certain quests
will be available, but as you
complete missions, new ones will
become available (usually in
spurts of four). After you beat
the game, you can access the
remaining 19, and once you clear
all 59 quests, then you can take
on the 60th quest (#53 on the
list, to be exact).

Upon completion of many of the
quests, you will be sent Power-
Up Data for your Styler. These
are basically upgrades, which
will supplement your current
Styler's abilities. These data
upgrades are all self-
explanatory, and come into
effect immediately after
receiving them. It is important
to complete quests so that you
can become as protected as
possible against any sort of
attack, while increasing your
own Styler's line length and
power.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Ranger School
-------------

As soon as you start a new game,
you will be able to pick your
character's gender. You will
then automatically be put into a
scene where you must capture a
Pikachu. The capturing aspect is
the core of the game, so you had
best get used to it right away.
Either way, capture the Pikachu
and you will find that it was
only an exercise at the Ranger
School. It turns out that the
capture was your entrance exam
into the school, so it's good
you passed. You will meet your
teacher, Ms. April, and then you
will be led into the school
building for your first class.

The next scene will be in your
classroom, where you will get to
name your character. Do so, then
sit through the conversation.
Ms. April will tell you about
the buttons in the bottom
corners of your touch screen, as
well as information about your
School Styler (what you use to
capture the Pokémon). At this
point, you can only have 3
Pokémon with you at a given
time. When the teacher leaves,
she will ask the girl Rhythmi to
give you a tour. She will show
you the save machine in the
room, so remember to save
whenever you see one (now
included).

After that, leave the classroom.
Visit the bottom-right room (Mr.
Kincaid's class), as well as the
two rooms to the north (Library
and Staff Room). Also, go
upstairs (you're not allowed in
the basement right now) and you
will see the Dorm. At each room,
feel free to talk to the people
if you want. Go back downstairs
and the bell will ring, which
means you can go outside. Do so
by exiting to the south.


Schoolyard
----------

Out here, Rhythmi will lead you
to the Training Room nearby. Go
in there and you will meet the
teachers inside, who will each
give you special lessons on two
of the essentials in the game.
Go back outside after the
lessons and you will be asked to
help capture some Bidoofs. Run
around the area and capture the
Bidoofs, then watch the scene
after they are gathered with
Keith's help. There is one more
area that Rhythmi wants to show
you, in the area to the
southeast. You can wander around
the schoolyard area and capture
a number of different Pokémon to
become more accustomed to how
the game works, as well as the
different field abilities, plus
it's good experience. When you
are ready, go southeast to the
next area, where you will see
Ascension Square and the Pledge
Stone. After that, the bell will
ring and you will go back to the
school.


Ranger School
-------------

At night in the dorms, talk to
Keith twice and you will meet
Rhythmi outside. You will be
sent on a initiation mission of
sorts, to find four Stylers in
the rooms downstairs, and drop
them off in the basement. So,
head downstairs and capture the
Bidoof in the main room. Head
into the Library (northwest)
first. Break the crates with the
Bidoofs and capture the Pichu,
then pick up the Styler in the
northwest area. In the Staff
Room (northeast), capture the
Pichu to get the second Styler.

In Mr. Kincaid's room
(southeast), capture the Zubat
and take the Styler in the
northwest corner. Now, capture a
Bidoof and go to your own
classroom. There will be several
crates in this room; use the
Bidoof's Crush 1 to break the
crate next to the save machine,
and you will find the last
Styler. Save while you are here,
then exit and capture a Bidoof
before heading downstairs to the
basement. Break the crate with
Bidoof, then capture a Zubat and
break the fence with its Cut 1.
Approach the door and you will
have to capture four Gastlys.
They will vanish periodically,
but overall it is a simple
battle to get through.

Once you captured the Gastly,
Mr. Kincaid will come out, and
you and Keith will run off.
Watch the scene, then read the
letter from your little sister.
In the classroom scene, you will
have an Outside Class, so you
have to head to Ascension
Square. Save your game, then
exit the school and head
southeast to your destination.


Ascension Square
----------------

Here is where you will have the
Outdoor Class, during which you
meet Crawford from Vientown.
After a lot of talking, Crawford
will leave due to an emergency,
and you will all go back to
class. You will receive a letter
from your little sister at this
point.


Ranger School
-------------

Back in class, you will sit
through another lesson until Mr.
Kincaid shows up. He will
mention that some Stylers have
been stolen, presumably by
Keith. You and Rhythmi will
receive regular Stylers to
practice with, so now you have
to go searching for Keith. Check
every room on the first floor
and talk to everyone, then go
upstairs. Rhythmi will call you
back down, so go talk to her and
Janice will mention finding a
Styler outside. So, you will
both head out there.


Schoolyard
----------

Outside, you will find another
Styler on the grass. Head south
and you will spot another one
atop the stairs, and then voices
will be heard. Down the stairs,
you will find Keith and the man
who really stole the Stylers. He
will try to get away, but a
Slakoth will fall on him.
Capture it and Ms. April will
let the thief off the hook. As a
result, you will go back to the
school.


Ranger School
-------------

Back at the school, the
situation will be explained to
the Principal in the Staff Room.
Following this, you will receive
another letter from your little
sister. The next day, you will
be in class, where you will get
to go on your 1-day internship.
You will be going to the Ranger
Base in Vientown, where you will
meet with Crawford. Keith will
also join you on this trip,
since he was also assigned to
Vientown. When you are ready,
save your game and exit the
school.


Schoolyard
----------

Out here, head directly south
and down the steps to the next
area.


School Gate
-----------

There, you will hear a man named
Little Tim calling for help
against the Bidoofs. Capture the
aggressive Bidoofs (Keith will
get one, you get the other) and
they will run away. After Little
Tim leaves, head south through
the gate and Ms. April will
praise you for what just
happened. Continue south and
west to the School Road.


School Road
-----------

Head west across the bridge and
you will find a little girl in
distress. Ponte and Issac will
come, and Issac will take his
sister (the girl) with him.
After that, continue onward to
the next part. Capture the
Pokémon along the way if you
want, then keep going and you
will enter Vientown.


Vientown
--------

When you arrive here, you will
automatically head to the Ranger
Base (it's like the Pokémon
Center in the original Pokémon
games; you can save and recharge
your Styler here). Go inside and
talk to the Operator to receive
a parcel which is to be
delivered to Breeze Hill. Exit
the building and head directly
west to the next area, which is
Nabiki Beach.


Nabiki Beach
------------

Here, head south and to the west
when you reach the beach itself.
Go up the steps at the other end
and you will meet Mr. Woodward,
who will talk briefly about
Partner Pokémon. After that,
continue heading northward to
Breeze Hill.


Breeze Hill
-----------

Head north through the area and
you will meet the other Rangers.
Once you deliver the parcel and
find out what it really was,
talk to everyone then try to
leave. A boy will appear calling
for the other Rangers to help,
so head back down to the beach.


Nabiki Beach
------------

You will find several Pokémon
running wild on the beach,
circling the couple that was
standing there before. Your job
is to pick one of the three
Pokémon you met a few moments
ago (Starly, Munchlax,
Pachirisu) and capture it as
your objective in your very
first mission.


================================
Rookie Mission: Sooth Pokémon on
the Beach!
================================

Nabiki Beach
------------

Choose wisely, as the Pokémon
you capture here will end up
being your first Partner Pokémon
later in the game. Once that's
over, you will head back to the
Ranger Base.


Vientown
--------

Back at the base, you will meet
Professor Hastings briefly. You
will then end up outside, where
the Pokémon you captured is
waiting for you. Unfortunately,
you cannot keep it just yet.
There is nothing more to do here
now, so head east along the
School Road.


School Road
-----------

When you reach the bridge area,
you will have to part ways with
the Pokémon you captured.
Rhythmi will appear, and the
three of you will head back to
school. Another letter from your
sister will appear, too.


Ranger School
-------------

Here again, you will find that
today is graduation day! When
you have control, exit the
classroom and head outside to
the schoolyard. Once you get out
there, the bell will ring, so
you will be back inside. The
graduation ceremony will
commence, but will be
interrupted by a loud noise from
the basement. Two Tangrowths
will emerge and you will have to
capture them; Keith will take
one and you will get the other.
Be careful of its attacks and
quicky capture it to restore
peace in the school.

The graduation ceremony will
commence once again, and once it
is over, you will be back at
your home.


Chicole Village
---------------

After you wake up, talk to your
family downstairs. They will
suggest that you go meet the
neighbors, so head outside.
Enter the other houses and talk
to everyone. Save your game at
the Save Machine and head north
to the Chicole Path, and follow
it to reach Vientown.


Vientown
--------

When you arrive, Luana will
greet you. Head to the Ranger
Base with her and you will be
greeted by the other Rangers.
Enter the back room to change
into the new uniform, and Barlow
will give you the Capture Styler
to officiate your new Ranger
status! Crawford will explain
what Poké Assists are, and then
demonstrate it in battle.
Following this, Barlow will
introduce the rest of the team,
and you will be given your first
real mission: deliver the Vien
Tribune to everyone in Vientown
and Chicole Village. So, head
outside to begin.


================================
Mission 1: Deliver Vien Tribune!
================================

Vientown
--------

Now it's time to start your
mission, so enter the other
three buildings in Vientown. One
of the residents is not home, so
head west to Nabiki Beach to
deliver the paper to Mr.
Woodward.


Nabiki Beach
------------

When you come to the beach, you
will be met by the Pokémon from
before. It will now become your
official Partner Pokémon, and
Crawford will explain how it can
help you with captures. After
that, head back to town and
continue southward to Chicole
Village.


Chicole Village
---------------

Here, visit all four of the
houses and deliver the Vien
Tribune to the residents. Once
you are done, Crawford will
suggest heading back to the
base, so do just that. Head
north along the Chicole Path and
return to Vientown.


Vientown
--------

In the Ranger Base, talk to
Barlow and choose to rest. The
next day, you will be sent on
another mission with Crawford,
this time to a nearby cave to
investigate some strange noises.
Save your game, then exit the
base and head west to the beach.


Nabiki Beach
------------

At the beach, go south and
Crawford will warn you about the
slime left behind by the
Shellos. Capture it if you want,
then continue westward to spot
the cave. Go north and capture a
Glameow, then enter the Marine
Cave.


================================
Mission 2: Investigate the
Marine Cave!
================================

Marine Cave
-----------

Inside, you will find that a
machine is causing pulses which
confuse the Pokémon. If you
enter battle against any of
them, they will run away after
you capture them. Defeat the
Zubat, then go north and use Cut
1 (the Glameow I had you capture
before will help) on the wooden
fence. After that, go all the
way northward and you will spot
some Pokémon circling near the
pulsing machine. You will need
Soak 2 to stop it, so head into
the next room to the north.

In the second room, the machine
does not affect the Pokémon so
you can capture them normally
here. Take the western path and
you will hear a Pokémon crying
behind a giant boulder. Take the
eastern path around to reach a
Nosepass; capture it and go back
to the boulder. Also, capture a
Squirtle or Shellos so you can
use its Soak 1 to capture a
Geodude. Use Nosepass to clear
the boulder with Crush 2, then
enter that room. Capture the
Gastrodon in there and exit the
room.

Head south to reach the first
room with the pulsing machine.
Ignore it for now and head south
and east into another section
with an opening blocked by a
boulder. Use a Geodude's Crush 1
to get through it. In that room,
you will find a Rugged Rock; use
Soak 2 (Gastrodon) to reveal the
Graveler. Capture it and leave
the room. Now, get another
Gastrodon from the same place
you found it before, and return
to the pulsing machine area.
This time, use the Gastrodon's
Soak 2 against the strange
machine.

This will destroy the machine,
freeing the Pokémon from their
trance. Crawford will stay
behind, so head south and exit
the cave.


Nabiki Beach
------------

Outside, head all the way east
to the second set of stairs. Big
Bertha will come looking for
Crawford, so once she leaves,
head northeast into Vientown.


Vientown
--------

Back in town, head directly to
the Ranger Base. Barlow will
give you the Mission Clear, as
well as promote you to Ranger
Rank 1! You will now be able to
use Poké Assist Bug as well.
Following a brief discussion,
Little Tim will come in asking
for someone to assist him on a
Quest. Barlow will explain how
to use that option on the menu
screen. Basically, Quests are
like side missions, so be sure
to do them whenever possible!

Exit the Ranger Base and go do
that Quest if you want. There
will be a second one available
after you complete the first
one. Whenever you are done,
return to the Ranger Base and
you will find that Crawford has
returned with the machine. After
the conversation, talk to Barlow
and decide to rest. The next
day, you will hear that the Vien
Forest is on fire, and so you
and Luana are sent to take care
of it. So, save your game and
exit the base, then exit town
via the northern path to enter
the forest.


================================
Mission 3: Fight the Vien Forest
Fire!
================================

Vien Forest
-----------

Here, head north and you will
see a girl whose Happiny have
run off. There are three of them
in the area, and you need to
rescue them all. Go all the way
west from Mimi and head south
from the Shinx, and you will
find the first Happiny to
capture. Return it to Mimi, then
head southwest from the girl and
a burning log will fall from
above. Capture the four Budews
that jump out, and you will have
to find a way to clear the log.
Head north across the bridge
into the next area. There,
capture the Wartortle and head
back to the previous area.

Go south and use Wartortle's
Soak 2 to clear the burning log.
Now, go south to the
intersection, then head east to
find the second Happiny. Head
all the way west to find the
third Happiny. Capture the
Wartortle in the west alcove,
then go back to Mimi and return
the rest of the Happiny. Now
that's done, go back to where
you just found the Wartortle. Go
north from there and use its
Soak 2 to clear the next burning
log. From here, go all the way
north to reach a save point.
Capture another Wartortle, then
head into the north area.

Talk to Crawford here and he
will ask you to find a
Blastoise. Go west and then
south to the area by the
waterfront. You will spot a
Blastoise walking around. The
trick here is that you must
approach it from behind; if it
spots you, it will automatically
charge towards you, causing 2 HP
of damage. Anyway, capture it
(be careful of its puddle attack
which comes when it has "!!"
over its head, and the water jet
attack with "!"). You can
continue to the western area and
capture a Grotle in the same
manner, sneaking up from behind.

When you're done here, go back
to where you saw Crawford. Go a
little bit east of him until you
see a "?" over your head. Use
Blastoise's Rain Dance at that
point and the forest fire will
be put out. Luana and Crawford
will find a mysterious guy
running away, and will escort
him back to the base. When you
have control, you can wander
around to find a Combee (they
weren't around during the fire).
When you're done here, make your
way south to the next area, then
to the southeast to exit the
forest.


Vientown
--------

Back in town, head to the Ranger
Base. Barlow will promote you to
Ranger Rank 2, which allows you
to use the Poké Assists Fire and
Fighting! The strange man won't
talk, so Barlow will ask you to
patrol the town. This is a good
time to do some Quests, as a few
have become available. When
you're done wandering, talk to
Barlow and you will be able to
rest. You will then be asked to
go to the forest to make sure
Professor Hastings is not lost.
So, exit the base and head north
towards the forest. As you
approach, the professor will
appear, so bring him to the
base.

The professor will say that more
of the strange machines are in
Pueltown. You and Luana will
then be sent on a mission to
Pueltown to investigate. So,
head north into the Vien Forest
once again.


Vien Forest
-----------

Back in the forest, go all the
way north and cross the bridge
into the second area. There,
follow the path going to the
north along the east side. In
the next area, you will find the
barriers from earlier are gone,
so continue northward to the
Lookout Ridge. After taking in
the view, continue southwest to
the next area. Head southward
and you will see a path
branching off to the east. If
you go that way, you will find a
cave inside which a rare Pokémon
can always be found (so says the
guy outside).

Continue to the south and west
to reach the next area. Capture
the Bibarel sitting by the water
and head north into Pueltown.


Pueltown
--------

When you enter the town, you
will notice that the Pokémon are
confused, much like in the
Marine Cave earlier. Talk to
Brook and he will mention that
some shady people have been
moving the strange machines
around town. At this point, your
mission will begin.


================================
Mission 4: Destroy the Strange
Machines!
================================

Pueltown
--------

Luana will lead you to the
Ranger Depot, which is the same
as the Ranger Base. Go inside to
recharge/save, then exit. On the
path directly east of the depot,
you will spot one of those
strange machines. Use the
Bibarel's Soak 2 (capture it
from the last area of Vien
Forest) to destroy the machine.
Watch the scene of the two guys
talking about the machines
above. There are more machines
to deal with, so capture another
Bibarel. Use it to destroy the
second machine further north.
The Pokémon blocking the path up
the stairs will disperse, and
Brook will run ahead.

Before you continue, capture a
Growlithe near the Ranger Depot.
Then, follow Brook up the steps
into the northwest area. You
will find more hypnotized
Pokémon in this area, so
continue onward and you will
spot a green machine instead of
the red ones. Use Growlithe's
Burn 2 to destroy it. There is
another machine up ahead, so get
another Growlithe and destroy
that one as well. Once you do
that, two shady men will appear
before running off. If you
capture a Voltorb nearby, you
can use its Electrify 2 to open
the gate to the south, which
opens up another path to the
first area of town. Take that
path and bring back another
Growlithe while you're there.

Now, follow those guys and head
east to the next area. Run
across the high path and capture
an Elekid, then enter the
following section. You will spot
a girl surrounded by Pokémon,
who Brook tries to help. They
are both stuck, so have
Growlithe destroy the machine
nearby. Also, have the Elekid
open the gate to the south to
allow for easier passage through
town. Get another Elekid and
take the path you just opened up
south of where Brook and Melody
are trapped. Destroy the blue
machine with Electrify 2.

Now that the Pokémon are free,
you will find out that the shady
gang is at the harbor. Go south
and east to reach a Save
Machine; use it if you wish,
then go to the eastern area.
There are more hypnotized
Pokémon here, so head east and
north through the harbor area.
You will listen in on a
conversation with those shady
guys surrounding another of
their machines.

When prompted, say yes and you
will confront the group. It
turns out they are members of
Team Dim Sun. They will send a
group of Rattatas at you, so
capture them quickly. They will
then send their Toxicroak to
attack you. It is a harder
fight, so watch out for its
poisonous attacks (there are two
of them, "!" is a cloud and the
other "!!" is a puddle). Once
you capture it, the group will
escape on a boat. Your work here
is done, so now you have to head
all the way back to Vientown via
the forest.


Vientown
--------

When you make it back to town,
visit the Ranger Base of course.
After the mission is cleared by
Barlow, choose to rest and the
next day will come. Ollie will
finally talk, and so you will
choose to free him. Once that's
over, Barlow will send you to go
patrolling the area. Exit the
base and Ollie will ask you to
bring him to Chicole Village.
Head south from here along the
path to reach the village.


Chicole Village
---------------

Once you arrive, your sister
will ask you to help with a hat
ghost in the Partner Farm. So,
head all the way south into the
Partner Farm area.


Partner Farm
------------

Here, you will spot the hat
moving around. It ends up being
a Kricketot, so capture it. It
will become your new Partner
Pokémon. Note that it does not
replace your current partner.
You can have many partners, but
only one can come with you at a
given time; the others remain at
Partner Farm where you can
switch them at any point. Now
that you're done here, head back
into the village.


Chicole Village
---------------

Take Ollie to the southeast
house (the one next to yours).
After he reconciles with his
mother, leave the house and head
back to Vientown.


Vientown
--------

Upon your return, go do a couple
of quests if you want.
Otherwise, go to the Ranger
Base. Talk to Barlow and choose
to rest, and you will find that
he will leave with Professor
Hastings temporarily. The next
day, Barlow will send you a
voicemail saying to get to
Pueltown. So, head through the
forest to the north and continue
to Pueltown.


Pueltown
--------

Once you arrive here, Barlow
will take you to the bridge
which is retracted. Brook is the
one in charge of the bridge, but
he is not here. Someone nearby
mentions that he was spotted by
the harbor, so head to the
eastern area of town to reach
the harbor. Talk to Brook and he
will tell you that the key to
the bridge is missing, lost from
when he went swimming before.
Barlow will give you the Micro
Aqualung so you can breathe
underwater. Brook will then take
you out to sea on a boat, and
then you'll dive into the sea.


Puel Sea
--------

At the sea bottom, you will see
a bright spot to the south,
which is where the key is. Swim
towards it and you will see a
Sharpedo eat up the key before
swimming away. At this point, it
becomes an actual mission.


================================
Mission 5: Recover a Key from
Sharpedo!
================================

Puel Sea
--------

From where the key was, swim
southward into the second area.
Here, you will start to see the
strong water currents keeping
you from entering the side
areas. Head to the southwest and
you will see a couple of small
rocks blocking your path.
Capture a Finneon so you can use
its Crush 1 to destroy them. Up
ahead, you will see the Sharpedo
swimming below. Capture the
Staryu, then swim back north to
the previous area.

When you enter this area again,
go east and you will see a
couple pieces of wood in the
way. Use Staryu's Cut 1 to clear
the way, then continue northeast
into a new segment. Capture
another Staryu in here and make
your way to the southeast, where
another wood block is in the
way. Barlow will contact you
with a hint about swimming in
the deep water. Continue onward
and capture the Mantine swimming
around, then head to the next
area.

Capture another Mantine as you
go to the south, avoiding the
water current to the west. Head
all the way south to the deeper
section and a "?" will appear;
use a Mantine's Swim ability to
head into the deep water. So,
swim westward into the following
area. You will spot the Sharpedo
ahead, so swim to the north and
west, then through a water
current to the south. Go through
the next current to the east,
and head back to the shallow
waters via the west ledge. Up
there, continue west to the next
section.

In the next area, save your game
at the machine. Up ahead, Barlow
will contact you again. For this
next part, there will be
sections of strong water
currents. The Sharpedo will be
swimming around the room as
well. The only way you can catch
up is by using the water
currents and cutting corners as
you move around the area. Once
you get used to where the
currents are, this will be easy.
Once you catch up to the
Sharpedo, capture it and you
will receive the Bridge Key. You
will then surface and return to
Pueltown.


Pueltown
--------

With the mission clear, you will
become a Rank 3 Ranger, which
allows you to use the Poké
Assists Ground and Steel. You
will also be allowed to have up
to four Friend Pokémon with you
at once! Head south and west out
of this area, and continue west
until you reach the Ranger
Depot. From there, head all the
way north to the bridge. Brook
will lower the bridge, then the
professor and Barlow will run
off. You will meet a man named
Murph, so continue with him
northward to Altru Park.


Altru Park
----------

Shortly after arriving here, you
will meet up with Issac. He will
invite you to his workplace, so
head all the way north to the
next area, and then onward into
the Altru Building.


Altru Building
--------------

Issac will give you a tour of
the lobby area, and then an
event will occur. You will get
to meet the president of Altru,
Inc. After he and Issac leave,
exit the building.


Altru Park
----------

Back outside, go south and
Barlow will contact you. He will
tell you to meet at the Union
Headquarters, and to bring a
Pokémon to destroy the red
machines. In Altru Park, take
the western exit to Union Road.


Union Road
----------

In this area, head west and
capture some new Pokémon if you
want, then continue to the
second area. There, go all the
way west and capture the Bibarel
near the stream. Go up the steps
to the north and continue onward
to reach the Ranger Union.


Ranger Union
------------

When you arrive, go up the steps
and enter the HQ building.
Inside, recharge at the front
desk, then go up the escalator
as Murph tells you to. Up there,
you will meet Nage, who will
lead you to the conference room.
When asked, use your Bibarel to
destroy the red machine. After a
bit of conversation and
explaining, Wendy will ask you
four questions. Say yes to all
of them, then after a while
more, everyone will leave. So,
exit the room and save your
game. Explore the building if
you want, then go into the
research room on the east side
of the second floor.

Talk to Barlow and you will be
able to rest for the night. The
following morning, go downstairs
and meet with Barlow in the
lobby. He wants to go back to
Vientown, so exit the building
and head south to the Union
Road.


Union Road
----------

Here, head south and you will
feel a small quake occur.
Continue to the east and a
stronger tremor will take place,
causing a lady to come out of
the cabin. She will tell you
about someone with big Pokémon
on the Peril Cliffs, so your new
mission is to go investigate the
area. So, from the cabin, head
north to the Peril Cliffs.


================================
Mission 6: Seek the Origin of
the Quake!
================================

Peril Cliffs
------------

In this area, go north and east
to find a wall of vines. Climb
the vines to reach the upper
ledge, and head north some more.
You will find that you cannot go
east for now, due to a giant
boulder being in the way. Climb
the second set of vines and
Barlow will point out another
vine above. If you don't have
one already, capture a Staravia.
Use its Cut 2 ability to cut the
vine down, allowing you to
continue upward.

Climb the vine and save at the
machine, then go east. Barlow
will show you the springy grass,
which if you walk on it, you
will be sprung across to another
ledge. Do so and you will land
on the eastern platform, so
continue to the next area. You
will find the source of the
tremors below, but you cannot
reach it just yet. Climb the
vines to reach the northern
area. Here, you will spot a
Pinsir to the west. Be careful
because if it spots you, it will
charge at you to attack for 3
HP. Capture it by waiting from a
distance, then running behind
it.

Anyway, capture a Staravia and
use it to cut the vine above the
east side of the cliff above.
Climb the vine and go west, and
capture a Magnemite if you need
its Recharge ability (you
probably will at this point).
Climb the high wall of vines to
the north, and head east once
you reach the top. Be careful of
the Gligars floating around; if
one spots you, it will charge,
knocking you down to the ground
below and causing 3 HP damage.
If you go all the way east to
the far ledge, you can use
Staravia to cut another vine so
you can reach the Cherrim up
there. Otherwise, climb down the
vines that lead to the lower
area.

From here, go southeast and you
will reach a Save Machine.
Recharge with the Magnemite if
you want to capture it. Also,
there were two Mawiles in this
area; make sure you capture both
of them (you will see why soon).
Once you do that, head past the
save machine and go into the
next area. You will encounter
more hypnotized Pokémon here, as
well as two of the yellow
machines. Go east and drop down
to the first ledge below. Jump
to the east from there. When you
reach the bottom area, head east
and climb some vines. Up on the
next ledge, use the springy
grass and make your way to the
top of the cliffs. Destroy the
first yellow machine up there
(you need Mawile's Crush 2).

Next, bounce on the springy
grass to reach the west
platform. Drop down to the first
ledge below, but this time, jump
to the west. When you reach the
lower area, destroy the second
machine and the Pokémon in the
area will become free from their
trances. With that done, go west
to the new area. Save your game
here, then climb down to the
area below.

Go west and Barlow will mention
that you have to stop the
Rampardos by capturing them. You
will likely need to use Poké
Assists to aid in the battle (I
recommend the Cherrim and Aron),
so when you are ready, say yes.
Confront the "geologist" (say no
when asked if you believe him),
and he will send the Rampardos
after you. It is a tough battle,
so you need to be quick to draw
circles around it in between its
own attacks. When it has the
"!!!" over its head, be VERY
careful since boulders will fall
from above causing 10 HP of
damage each if they hit you! If
you feel that Rampardos is
moving too quickly for you to
make any progress, use a Poké
Assist to slow it down a little
bit.

Once the capture is complete,
the Team Dim Sun member will run
away. Barlow will mention
reporting back to the lady in
the cabin, so head west to the
next area. Bounce on the springy
grass to get past the boulder,
and climb down the vines ahead.
From there, go south and exit
the area entirely.


Union Road
----------

Upon your return, go south and
talk to the lady outside of the
cabin. After that is settled,
Barlow will promote you to Rank
4! This will allow you to use
the following Poké Assists:
Poison, Ghost, Psychic, and
Dark. With that done, the next
step is to return to Vientown.
So, head east to the next area.
You will see two Doduos appear,
and Barlow will have you capture
a Doduo. Once you do that,
Barlow will tell you that you
can use its Agility move to ride
it, allowing you to move much
faster.

You still need to go to
Vientown, so make your way
through Altru Park, Pueltown,
and the Vien Forest. Along the
way, feel free to do some quests
if you so desire. Ultimately,
you need to get back to
Vientown.


Vientown
--------

Of course, when you return to
Vientown, visit the base and
rest. The next day, you will be
greeted by Crawford who will
give you your next mission. It
is the Ranger School's Outdoor
Class, and you are being sent to
teach it. So, exit town to the
exit and take the School Road to
get there, of course.


School Road
-----------

When you reach the area by the
bridge, you will encounter Team
Dim Sun. Capture the Croagunk
they send to attack you, and it
will become a new Partner
Pokémon! Once you're done here,
continue east to the school.


School Gate
-----------

Head east and go through the
school's gate, and you will meet
Ms. April again. She will escort
you to the school, and the
mission will begin.


================================
Mission 7: Teach at Ranger
School!
================================

Schoolyard
----------

Still outside in the schoolyard,
head north into the school
building itself.


Ranger School
-------------

Inside, head into the Staff Room
(northeast room on the first
floor). There, talk to the
Principal. After that, you will
be out at Ascension Square.


Ascension Square
----------------

Out here, you will be taking
part in the Outdoor Class which
you are teaching. Answer the
many questions how you want,
then afterwards you will be
interrupted by the Team Dim Sun
guys from before. They will send
two Carnivines after you, so
capture them both. Following
this bit of excitement, the
class will end and you will be
free to leave after the
Principal asks you one last
question. So, head back to
Vientown.


Vientown
--------

Once you return safely to town,
go to the Ranger Base and talk
to Crawford. Choose to rest,
then when you wake up, you will
be again greeted by him.
Crawford will ask you to go to
Boyleland to search for Barlow.
To get there, you need to take a
boat from Pueltown, so head to
Pueltown now.


Pueltown
--------

When you arrive, head to the
harbor area obviously. Enter the
building and talk to the captain
in red, and he will take you to
Boyleland. Enjoy the scenery
along the way and you will soon
arrive at your destination.


Boyleland
---------

Here, go east and up the steps
to meet a little girl. After she
talks to you, go north to find a
man blocking the entrance to a
cave. Talk to both men and you
will find that you need the
Elder's permission to enter. So,
visit the Elder in the southwest
house, and he will grant you the
permission you needed. Exit the
house and you will see a group
of Drifloon heading to the
north. Go back to the cave and
talk to the man, and he will
allow you to enter, so go
inside.


Volcano Cave
------------

Starting off, head northwest and
you will see a path of smoke
leading to the east. You can't
do anything about it just yet,
so go north and west to go
outside. You will spot the
Drifloons from outside entering
the cave, so go back inside and
you will see them. Be careful
around the Slugmas, as they
leave a trail of lava which will
damage you if you touch it (like
the Shellos from earlier).
Capture a Drifloon and head to
the smoke trail, and a "?" will
appear. Use the Drifloon's
Airlift ability to float across
the gap.

At the other side, go north and
you will find Barlow's Styler.
Capture another Drifloon and
enter the next room to the
north. There, you will encounter
a couple of Team Dim Sun goons
who will run off. Go forward and
use the Drifloon to cross the
gap. Capture the Pikachu whose
Recharge 3 will come very much
in handy. Further along, you
will run into a Team Dim Sun guy
who will send a Slugma and
Magcargo to attack. Capture them
both and the guy's machine will
break, causing him to run away.

From here, continue south and
west along the upper path. If
you have a Drifloon, you can
take the path to the south as a
shortcut to the room's entrance.
Otherwise, go west into the new
area. Save your game if you
like, then follow the path until
you are confronted by another
Team Dim Sun minion. Capture the
Kangaskhan it sends your way,
and the guy will leave. Capture
a Drifloon ahead, then go back
south and up the steps to the
upper plateau. Use its ability
to float to the west, and enter
the cave.

Capture a Shuppet in the cave,
then exit. Capture another
Drifloon and follow the path
around to the end, then use its
Airlift to get across. Head
north from here and you will be
confronted once more by Team Dim
Sun. They will block the way
forward, so you need to find
another way for now. Beware of
the Rhyhorn to the east, since
if it spots you, it will charge
to attack (if you want to
capture it, approach it from
behind).

Anyway, head west and north
along the upper path until you
come to the sealed door. Use
Shuppet's Psy Power 1 to open
it, then enter the room. Capture
the Muk inside, and bring it to
the boulder in the previous
room. Use its ability to destroy
the boulder, then continue
northward. As you approach the
door, those two minions will
reappear and send three Numels
after you. Capture them, then
enter the room ahead.

In the next area, you will spot
the missing Pokémon and Barlow
ahead. Several Team Dim Sun
guards will be sent to patrol
the area, and you will have two
minutes to reach the cargo ship
at the dock (you will get more
time if you are caught, so it is
not a big deal if you make a
mistake). As you progress
through the area, observe the
movement patterns of the guards
so that you can slip around
without being seen. When you
reach the cargo ship, two
minions will send a couple of
Beedrills and a Gloom to attack
you. Capture them, then board
the ship to begin the mission
proper.


================================
Mission 8: Look for Missing
Barlow!
================================

Cargo Ship
----------

Aboard the ship, go forward and
save your game. Capture the
Pikachu for its ability even if
you don't need it right now,
then head north. When you are
faced by the Team Dim Sun
minions, capture the two
Machokes they send your way.
After they flee, head east past
the giant plug and up the steps.
Then, enter the room to the east
(the north room has a Pikachu if
you want it). Go down the steps
and you will face another member
of Team Dim Sun. Capture the
Mime Jr. it sends your way
(watch out for the orbs that
rotate around it while trying to
capture it).

Once you complete the capture,
the Mime Jr. will run off into
the next room, so follow it
there. There are a number of
conveyor belts in here, so you
will need to proceed with some
caution. Before you continue
down here, go up the eastern
steps and follow the path to a
Luxio. Capture it, then go back
down the steps. Now, head
directly north and then to the
west, where you will find a
Makuhita followed by a Machoke
(capture them both, you will see
why soon). Climb the nearby
ladder to get onto the green
boxes, and climb down the west
side of them. Go up the steps
and tap the Mime Jr. to watch a
quick scene of what's in the
room ahead.

After that, enter the room to
the north. Save your game and go
down the steps, then use Luxio's
Electrify 2 to destroy the blue
machine, freeing the Pokémon
around it. Once that's done,
enter the room to the north. The
Team Dim Sun minion will turn on
the Gigaremo machine, which will
cause the Pokémon to attack you.
Begin by going westward to a
giant lever, and use the Machoke
to switch it. Next, go east and
up the steps, and use the
Makuhita's Crush 2 to destroy
the machine.

With the Pokémon free, go south
and down the steps again. This
time, head northward until you
reach the Machoke. Capture it
and climb the ladder, and head
south across the boxes. At the
other end, climb down and head
north to find another giant
switch. Use Machoke's Tackle 2
to move it, which will align the
rest of the containers. Get back
onto them and continue
southward, then head along the
path to the end (be sure to
capture a Voltorb along the
way).

Climb down at the end and head
north, and go up the steps. When
you reach the electric door, you
will need to use Voltorb's
Electrify ability to open it.
With the door open, enter the
next room. You cannot cut
through the fence just yet, so
continue into the following
room. Save your game to the
south, and you will have the
option to go left or right. Go
west and enter that room to find
Barlow. He will tell you to
capture an Electabuzz to light
up the room.

You don't have one yet, so exit
the room. Go all the way east
and enter the other room this
time. You will run into a Team
Dim Sun member here, who will
send three Mareeps down to
attack. Capture them and the guy
will run off. If you want,
capture the Pokémon in here,
then continue into the room
ahead. Continue into the room
straight ahead and capture the
Raticates, then head back to the
room you passed not long ago
with the wire fence. Use the
Raticate's Cut 2 to clear the
fence, and the giant wheels will
stop. Capture the Magmar and
especially the Electabuzz, then
enter the southwest room.

Head back into the western room
where Barlow is being held, and
talk to him. After that, use
Electabuzz's Flash ability to
light up the room. Now, you need
to untie Barlow, so use the
Raticate's Cut ability to cut
the rope. Once Barlow is free,
check the locked door again and
he will knock it down. Go north
two rooms and you will be in the
captain's quarters. After that,
exit the room and go down the
hall to the west. You will soon
be surrounded by two Team Dim
Sun members. Capture the
Magcargos they send your way,
and Barlow will capture the
others.

After the minions run away, go
south and you will be outside on
the ship. If you enter the room
to the east, you can capture a
Makuhita. When you are ready, go
north and approach the bridge,
where you will meet up with
another familiar face from
earlier: Mr. Kincaid. He will
summon a number of Team Dim Sun
minions to surround you, and
then the fun part begins. First
you will have to capture two
Rhyhorns; watch out when either
of them signals an attack since
it has a wide range, so try not
to get hit by it.

The next battle puts you against
three Stunkys; their attack
consists of a poisonous cloud
which surrounds them briefly.
After you capture them, Barlow
will appear to have trouble
against Kincaid's Drapion. For
this tough boss battle, you will
have to capture it. For the most
part, you are in the clear as
long as Drapion is moving. When
it stops, it can either make a
poisonous cloud appear or shoot
needles in two separate
directions. If a "!!" appears,
it will conjure up poisonous
puddles on the ground which will
damage you if you touch them.

Following the capture, Kincaid
will escape, but the Kingston
Valve will be pulled out,
causing the ship to start
flooding/sinking. You will need
to do something to slow the
sinking process, so save your
game and exit the room.
Backtrack your way through the
entire ship until you reach the
first room that is actually
flooded. Go across the
containers and capture the
Machoke, and head into the
southern room. In the next room,
go along the containers and you
will spot the Kingston Valve;
use Machoke's ability to move it
back onto the opening. This will
successfully keep the ship from
sinking, and Barlow will lead it
to a small pier.


Ascension Square
----------------

Sure enough, the cargo ship will
run aground at the pier in
Ascension Square. Everyone will
come to check out what happened,
and the mission will be
completed! You will then receive
a letter from the Ranger Union,
and you will be back in
Vientown.


Vientown
--------

Back in the Ranger Base, you
will find out that you have
become a Top Ranger and are now
needed at the Ranger Union! Talk
to everyone inside, then save
your game and exit the base.
Talk to your family outside, and
then it will be time to head to
the Ranger Union. So, head north
into the forest.


Vien Forest
-----------

Make your way through the forest
until you encounter Wendy on her
Staraptor. She will fly you
directly to the Ranger Union HQ,
which will save you quite a bit
of time.


Ranger Union
------------

When you land, you will be
greeted by Murph. Talk to him
and he will lead you inside the
building. In there, take the
west escalator upstairs to the
second floor. Save your game if
you want, then enter the
conference room via the middle
door. In this room, you will
meet Chairperson Erma again, as
well as Keith. You will receive
the Fine Styler, which allows
you to use the Power Charge when
trying to capture Pokémon.
Professor Hastings will show you
a demonstration of this feature.

After that, Erma and Hastings
will leave. Talk to Keith, then
head upstairs to the third floor
and enter the operation room.
Talk to Chairperson Erma and you
will meet Rhythmi again here.
Your next mission will be to
meet with a man named Sven in
the Chroma Ruins, which are
located east of Altru Park. When
you are ready, head back
downstairs and exit the HQ
building. Outside, Wendy will
tell you that you can now
capture Staraptors and use their
Fly ability to get from place to
place. Feel free to capture the
nearby Staraptor, as this will
come in handy.

After that, head back to the
Altru Park area via Union Road
to the south. Once you get
there, head all the way east to
a new area.


Chroma Road
-----------

In this new area, head east and
to the north. You will reach a
point where the path splits, but
you will need Cut 3 to get
through the fallen tree. You
likely don't have that now, so
take the western path to the
north. The Pokémon in this area
give good experience, so be sure
to capture anything you meet
along the way. At the northern
point, head east into the next
area. There, capture some more
new Pokémon along the way as you
head northward some more.

Further to the north, you will
spot a cabin in which you can
save. Do so if you want,
otherwise continue eastward into
the following area (be sure to
capture a Pikachu, as well as a
Tauros if you want to capture a
Gloom in the next area).


Chroma Highlands
----------------

As soon as you enter, you will
encounter a member of Team Dim
Sun. He will send three Murkrows
after you, so capture them.
After that, you will find that
the dark mist in the area will
drain your Styler's power as you
wander around. If you need to
recharge, use a Pikachu in the
southeast area to do so. Anyway,
make your way all the way
eastward and to the north. You
will soon encounter another Team
Dim Sun minion; capture the
three Koffing he sends to attack
you.

Once he runs off, capture the
Rapidash if you want, then head
west. You will spot a Bastiodon
blocked off to the north, but
you cannot reach it for now due
to the black clouds in the way.
Head west some more and you will
face yet another Team Dim Sun
minion, who will send Murkrows
and Koffings. Capture them all
(try to get them one at a time,
it will be easier), then the guy
will run off as usual. Capture a
Carnivine in the area and use it
to break the wooden fence
nearby. A couple of Skarmory
will escape, so go find one in
the area and capture it. Then,
use its Demist ability to clear
the dark mist from the
highlands.

Now that the mist is gone, you
won't lose energy in this area.
Head back to where the Bastiodon
was trapped earlier (it's near
that cave where the Skarmory
escaped from). Approach it from
behind or it will charge to
attack, then capture it. With
the Bastiodon in tow, head west
to find some steps. Then, head
up them to reach the next area
(you can also enter the cave and
capture a Vileplume using the
Bastiodon's Tackle 3 ability).

In this area, save your game and
capture the Staraptor if you
want to go back to town. Then,
use Bastiodon's Tackle 3 to move
the gateway slab to reveal some
steps. When you are ready, go
down the steps to enter the
ruins.


================================
Mission 9: Support Sven at the
Ruins!
================================

Chroma Ruins
------------

In here, go west and you will
spot a shining light. These
signify a room above where you
are currently, which you can
access by using a Drifblim's
Elevate ability. So, capture a
nearby Drifblim and use it to
reach the next room via that
light. Up there, capture the
Pupitar, then drop through the
hole to reach the previous room.
This time, head south and east
into the following area.

Here, you will see a rock
blocking the northern passage.
Use Pupitar's Crush 2 to destroy
it, and enter that room. Capture
the Electabuzz and exit the
room, and continue eastward. In
this darkened room, use the
Electabuzz's Flash ability to
light up the area. With that
done, capture a Sandshrew and
head south to find a spot of
soft soil. Use the Sandshrew's
Tunnel 1 ability to dig through
it, and drop into the hole
leading to a room below.

As soon as you land, capture a
Drifblim and get back to the
room above, and capture another
Electabuzz. Once you have it, go
back down the hole and capture a
Hypno, then use its Psy Power
ability to open the sealed door
to the east. Once you do that,
enter the newly opened room and
capture the Pupitar inside.
Leave the room and capture both
a Sandshrew and a Hypno, then
head west to another darkened
room. Use Electabuzz's Flash
ability to light up the room,
then use Pupitar's Crush 2 to
break one of the rocks in your
way. Now that you can proceed,
head west into the next room.

In this room, be careful of the
Koffing's poisonous clouds which
can damage you if you touch
them. Capture a Pikachu if you
need to recharge, then head
south to a soft soil patch. Have
Sandshrew tunnel through it so
you can reach the room below.
Down there, go north until you
reach a hole, and drop down it.
Capture a Drifblim and use it to
float upward via the eastern
light. In the room above, drop
down to the ledge below and head
west. Approach the Bastiodon
with caution and capture it from
behind, then continue southward.

In the southeast corner of the
room, you will find a Pupitar,
so capture it. Use it to clear a
rock to the west, then head
north to the first hole again.
Go down it and use the
Drifblim's Elevate ability to go
up the eastern hole via the
light. This time on the high
ledge, go east. When you reach
the sealed door, use Hypno's Psy
Power 2 to open it. Enter that
room, but be careful as the
Skuntank inside will charge at
you to attack. Approach it from
behind, then capture it (be
careful of the poisonous clouds
it emits during the battle).

Once you have the Skuntank, exit
the room and drop off the ledge
to the south. Follow the path
going south and west, then
capture a Sandshrew when you
reach it. With it, go west and
all the way north to an area of
soft soil. Use Sandshrew's
Tunnel 1 to burrow into the room
below. When you land,
capture/use the Pikachu to
recharge, then save your game.
Use the Bastiodon's Tackle 3 to
break the round rock, and
continue onward. When you are
ready, go east into the next
room.

You will finally meet Sven in
this next room. He will point
out the Team Dim Sun members
ahead, and suggests a method to
flush them out of the ruins.
Since you already captured the
Skuntank, talk to Sven again and
he will tell you to go ahead and
continue. So, head east and the
Team Dim Sun members will
surround you. When the "?"
appears, use Skuntank's Stink
ability to clear out the area.
With the bad guys gone, drop
down the hole to reach a new
room. Save your game and
recharge if needed, then take
the north path to spot a
Spiritomb. If you are ready, say
yes and you will have to go and
capture it.

The battle against Spiritomb is
tough since it can warp to five
different locations, and
depending on the location,
unleash different attacks. The
center position's attack is most
devastating, so when Spiritomb
moves there, you should rest to
avoid taking lots of damage. The
northwest and southwest
positions are shadow orb
attacks, so you need to stop
briefly to avoid getting hit by
them. The northeast attack is a
short wave beam, and the
southeast is an electrical orb
flung over your head. Be quick
to capture in between its
attacks and you will succeed (if
you have a Drifblim and use its
Poké Assist, it will cause
Spiritomb to slow down a bit,
which helps).

Following the successful
capture, head into the northern
room. Follow the path into the
next room (there is a Steel
Statue here, but you can't do
anything about it right now). In
the next room, you will find a
pedestal of sorts, but the
Shadow Crystal is missing! After
some conversation, go through
the hole in the wall into the
room behind it. Save your game
if you want, then drop down the
ledge to the east. Finally,
climb the ladder and you will
exit the ruins.


Chroma Highlands
----------------

When you emerge here, enter the
nearby shack. Get to the eastern
area and read the diary you find
to hear some jumbled up
information. After reading the
diary, you will decide to take
it back to the Ranger Union for
analysis. As you leave, Ponte
(another familiar face from the
school) will enter the room.
Talk to him for a bit, then exit
the shack. Sven and Keith will
run off, so you need to go to
the Ranger Union. Jump to the
area below and head south and
west to Chroma Road, then
capture a Staraptor and fly
there.


Ranger Union
------------

Upon your arrival, head inside
the HQ building and go up to the
third floor. Talk to Chairperson
Erma and Professor Hastings, and
you will be promoted to Ranger
Rank 5! This will allow you to
use the Ice and Dragon Poké
Assists. You will also now be
allowed to have up to five
Friend Pokémon with you at once.
After that, choose to rest and
the next day will begin. You
will be sent to patrol, so now
is a good time to do some quests
if you want. Head downstairs and
save your game, then take care
of whatever you want to do.

When you are ready to advance
the story, talk to Chairperson
Erma. She will tell you to visit
the research room. So, head to
the second floor and enter the
eastern room. In that room, you
will run into Murph again. He
will tell you that you may be
able to find out information at
the Altru Building. That said,
exit the HQ and fly/walk to the
Altru Building.


Altru Park
----------

When you get to this area, enter
the Altru Building of course.


Altru Building
--------------

Inside, talk to the woman in the
northeast area and she will
explain the portraits on the
walls. You will find out who
Brighton is at this point, as
Murph suggested. With that done,
exit the building.


Altru Park
----------

As you step outside, you will
hear music nearby and will
automatically go to investigate.
Listen to the conversations that
take place, then head back to
the Ranger Union.


Ranger Union
------------

Back here, head to the research
room. There, talk to Professor
Hastings and he will be
interested in Brighton as well.
After Nage's presentation, you
will be sent to Hia Valley to
find out about Murph's pendant.
So, exit the building and head
south to Union Road.


Union Road
----------

In this area, go south until you
reach a stream. There will be a
Floatzel running around nearby,
so capture it. Now, walk onto
the nearby pier and use
Floatzel's River Flow ability to
ride along the water. Head west
into the next area and follow
the stream into the Crysta Cave
to the north.


Crysta Cave
-----------

When you enter the cave, there
will be two areas where you can
get onto dry land. Make your way
all the way north and get off at
that pier. Once you are on dry
land, enter the room directly
ahead of you. Capture the
Camerupt, then exit the room and
take the westward path past the
Golbats into another area. Head
up the stairs here, but be
careful of the Swinub at the top
as it will charge at you. At the
top of the room, go into the
area to the north.

In this next room, head across
the bridge and you will see the
Team Dim Sun Admin. He will send
three Golbats after you, so
capture them successfully and
the man will run off. Up ahead,
you will see a chunk of solid
ice blocking the path; use
Camerupt's Burn ability to melt
it. After that, save your game
and continue onward to an
outside area. Capture a Pikachu
to recharge your Styler if you
need it, then head north to Hia
Valley.


Hia Valley
----------

Upon arriving in this area, you
will see the Team Dim Sun Admin
harassing another man and his
Pokémon. Of course, you will
intervene, and will have to
capture the hypnotized Houndoom.
Once the capture is complete,
you will meet Pamur, who will
take you to the nearby Shiver
Camp as thanks.


Shiver Camp
-----------

In the camp, you will talk to
Pamur for a while. He will
mention that Mrs. Winter is the
one who made Murph's pendant,
and that she lives in a cabin in
Hia Valley. Pamur will ask you
to visit her, so exit the hut
and exit the camp to the west.


Hia Valley
----------

Back out here, continue by
making your way to the
northwest. If you head
southwest, you can talk to a
couple members of Team Dim Sun;
they won't attack you, luckily.
Make your way through the area
until you reach the cabin in the
northwest, and try to enter it.
Pamur will appear and you will
both go inside. Listen to Mrs.
Winter's story, then Pamur will
take you back to the camp for
the night.


Shiver Camp
-----------

The next day, head outside and
the Empoleon that was injured
earlier will have fully
recovered! After everyone
leaves, Professor Hastings will
send you a voicemail about a
Blue Gem, as well as a message
for Pamur. Go back into the hut
and talk to Pamur, then he will
tell you to head to Almia Castle
via Ice Lake. Once you're done
here, exit the hut and the camp
altogether.


Hia Valley
----------

In this area again, head west
and to the north through the
area. When you reach the cabin,
continue to the east and follow
the path northward to the Ice
Lake.


Ice Lake
--------

Here, talk to the researcher
standing nearby to hear about
the obstacles in the lake. Then,
capture the Empoleon that is
wandering around (and the
Staraptor if you want to go back
to the camp). After that, walk
up to the pier and use
Empoleon's River Flow 2 ability
to ride onto the lake. There
will be water currents; ride one
and you will see a "!" above
your head, which will allow you
to break through ice blocks with
that speed boost. The whirlpools
will send you back to the
southern pier, so be careful
when navigating the area.

In the first area, go north and
take the first path going west.
Break the block and go north and
east, breaking through another
ice block. At the other side, go
south and around the curve to
ride the current northward
through two more blocks. Then,
continue northward into the next
area. There, ride the current so
you break through the first
block (it is optional though).
Ride the current to the west and
break through a series of ice
blocks in the way. As soon as
you break the last one, press
Right to stop riding the
current.

Next, move to the northwest and
get against the west wall, then
hold Down to ride the current
and break two ice blocks (be
careful of the whirlpools). Ride
to the west and north until you
reach a break between currents.
From here, head east until you
see a current heading directly
northward. Ride it through the
ice blocks and continue into the
third area. Avoid the whirlpools
to the north and ride the
northbound current all the way
through the ice blocks and into
the final area. When you reach
the end, get onto dry land.

Head up the steps ahead and you
will reach the entrance to the
Almia Castle. However, one of
the torches will go out and the
giant doors will close. To light
the torch, capture the Vulpix
roaming the area and use its
Burn 1 ability on the unlit
torch. This will open the doors
again, so save your game at the
Save Machine. Also, it may be a
good idea to capture the Raichu
so you can recharge now or later
if needed. When you are ready,
go forward and enter the Almia
Castle.


=============================
Mission 10: Get the Blue Gem!
=============================

Almia Castle
------------

When you enter the castle,
capture the Haunters you
encounter if you want, then
enter the next room. You will
encounter Team Dim Sun yet
again, and the admin will send
four Houndours to attack you.
Capture them all (one at a time
may work best, though you can
capture them as a group since
they tend to stay close
together). After they run away
defeated, you will be free to
wander the castle. So, head into
the western room first. There
will be a Scyther in here;
approach it from the sides or
behind since it will charge at
you if approached head on.
Capture it, then exit the room.

Back in the main hall, take the
eastern path into the next room.
Follow the hall around into the
following room to the south
(capture/recharge with the
Raichu if you need it). In the
next room, capture yourself a
Vulpix, then head up the stairs
to the second floor. Up there,
go west to the next area and
cross a bridge leading into
another room. In there, capture
the Dratini if you like, then
use your Vulpix to light the
unlit torch in order to open the
door.

In the next room, you will
encounter an icy floor with
icicles falling from above to
act as barriers. Make your way
across the slippery area, using
the icicles to slow down/stop as
needed. When you reach the
northwest area, enter the next
room from there. In here, go
west and follow the path
southward into yet another new
room. Walk around to the bottom
half of the room, and capture
the Ninetales you find.

Now that you have the Ninetales,
exit the room and go east into
the icy room again. You need to
get back downstairs, so as a
shortcut, fall into any of the
pits and you will reach the main
hall once more. Use the
Ninetales' Burn 4 ability to
melt the giant block of ice to
the north, and enter the new
area. Save your game, then head
upstairs to the next room. In
there, continue south and you
will be at the other side of the
icy chamber. Walk along the
giant ice blocks quickly (if
they crack, you will fall into
the room below) to reach the
eastern ledge. Once you make it
across, enter the next room.

In here, capture the Glalie as
it will almost certainly get in
your way, then head upstairs.
When you emerge, be careful of
the Scyther as you continue into
the southern room. In this icy
room, be extremely careful as
the Walrein will hit you HARD if
it spots you. Go into the west
room and cross the bridge to
reach the following area. In
there, go forward and you will
overhear the Team Dim Sun people
talking. They will spot you and
will send eight Seedots to
attack. Fortunately for you,
they are very weak and easy to
capture all at once.

After you complete the captures,
the Team Dim Sun folks will run
off as usual. You will see two
rooms to the west; enter the
northern one and capture a
Vulpix. Exit the room and head
into the west one, and cross the
bridge leading to the following
area. Head around the path and
down the stairs to find two
unlit torches next to a door.
Use Vulpix to light one torch,
then get another Vulpix and
return here to light the other
one. With that done, enter the
newly opened room. Capture the
Mismagius in here (you will spot
an ice statue in here, not that
you can do anything about it
yet).

After that, head back to the
room where you saw the Team Dim
Sun folks. This time in here,
use the Mismagius' Psy Power 3
to open the sealed door. Then,
save your game and enter the
next room. In here, you will
have to deal with narrow icy
paths and ice blocks that
crack/break. If you fall, you
will simply land in a room
below, which is not a big deal.
If you take the paths leading to
the side rooms, you can find
Riolus to capture; they will
come in handy very soon so you
must capture them both. From the
start of the icy room, go north
across the first icy block, then
head west at the second
intersection. Follow the rest of
the path to the northern door,
then recharge with Raichu and
enter the next room.

In this room, you will encounter
a man named Ice. Soon after, he
will summon a Froslass to attack
you. This battle will take a
while and can be quite dangerous
due to it being very likely you
will take damage while capturing
it. When it has the "!", four
flames will surround it, so draw
bigger circles or charge up
until they dissipate. The "!!"
attack will make a giant ice
chunk fall from above and stay
on the ground for a few seconds.
The "!!!" attack will send a
flame hopping towards you, so
try to keep your distance to
avoid taking damage. It may take
a while, but if you are patient
and evade its attacks, you will
do just fine.

Following the capture, Ice will
retreat and the Team Dim Sun
minions will run into the room.
They will leave once they
realize you are not Ice. Now,
walk ahead to the barrier and
you will notice the two Riolu
statues. If you have two Riolus,
use their powers and the barrier
will be lifted. Head into the
next room and you will be
contaced by Rhythmi via
voicemail. Save your game and
recharge with a Raichu, then
when you are ready, enter the
next room.

You will find the gem in this
final room, but it is protected
by its guardian, Lucario. It
will approach and attack you, so
you will be in for a tough
fight. Lucario will hop around a
lot, stopping briefly to unleash
one of three attacks (strong
punch, the launching of
electrical orbs that stay on the
ground for a while, or shooting
some dark orbs in your
direction). After a while, it
will power itself up and will
start glowing; during this, all
of Lucario's attacks are much
stronger, so be careful! Be
quick when trying to capture it,
avoid the attacks, and above all
be patient! The best time to
draw the circles is when the
electrical orbs are not
deployed.

Once you manage to capture
Lucario, you will receive the
Blue Gem! This will also end
your mission successfully. Go
back through the previous couple
of rooms, and step into the warp
to reach the castle entrance.
Once you get there, exit the
castle altogether.


Ice Lake
--------

As soon as you step outside, you
will get another voicemail from
Rhythmi. She will tell you to
get back to the Ranger Union, so
capture a Staraptor and fly
there.


Ranger Union
------------

Upon your arrival, enter the HQ
building and you will meet with
Erma and Professor Hastings. She
will promote you to Ranger Rank
6, which reduces the charge time
of your Power Charge! Following
this, choose to rest for the
night. The next day, Chairperson
Erma will lead you to the
rooftop where an experiment will
take place. You will learn that
Rhythmi and Linda each have
special pendants similar to
Murph's. Since the professor
needs more time to figure out
what's going on, you will be
asked to patrol the area. This
is a good time to get some new
quests done, naturally.

When you are done with the
patrol, come back and talk to
Chairperson Erma. She will send
you to see Professor Hastings on
the second floor. He will send
you to Boyleland for the next
mission, so head outside and fly
there via the Staraptor.


============================
Mission 11: Get the Red Gem!
============================

Boyleland
---------

Upon your arrival, the mission
will officially begin. Go north
and you will see the Elder
again, but then he will go
inside. Enter the Elder's house
and talk to him, then exit the
house and talk to everyone else
outside. Go north and talk to
the explorer, and then check the
iron door to the east. It has a
padlock on it, so go back and
talk to the Elder. He will offer
to open it, so head back to the
door and it will be opened. Now,
enter the Volcano Cave.


Volcano Cave
------------

In this new area of the cave,
you will get a voicemail from
Wendy about the magma. Capture
the Torkoal, as it can swim in
the magma, then use its Magma
Flow ability to move onto the
magma. Follow the stream all the
way northward into a new area,
and head southward from there
into another area. Surface in
this next room, and head into
the eastern area where you will
find a Drifblim. Capture it,
then drop down to the lower
ledge. Capture another Torkoal
and cross the magma, surfacing
on the platform directly to the
east this time.

Over here, watch out for the
Bagon if it charges at you. To
the south is a Hariyama who will
also charge at you if it spots
you, so watch out since you will
need to capture it. Otherwise,
head northward and you will see
a hot boulder in the way.
Continue northwest into a room
where you will find some
Gastrodons; capture one, then
use its Soak 2 ability to cool
off that boulder. Use Hariyama's
Crush ability to completely
clear it. Head north and save
your game, then use the Drifblim
in the ray of light to reach the
upper floor.

When you land up here, head
eastward to reach an outside
ledge. You will encounter a
member of Team Dim Sun, who will
send five Chatots to attack.
Capture them all (they are very
simple at this point), and the
minion will run away. After
Wendy contacts you again,
capture the two Pelippers out
here before going back inside.
Head west and you will see two
fiery walls blocking your path;
use a Pelipper to clear one of
them so you can proceed.

In this next part, you will see
flame jets in the ground; they
will damage you if you get
burned, so walk around them to
avoid taking damage. Watch out
for the Rhydon and Bagon that
will try charging at you if
spotted. When you make it past
this area, go up the steps and
you will see Team Dim Sun up
ahead. The two girls will send a
Shelgon and three Bagons to
attack, so be prepared to
capture them all. Aside from
their ramming attacks, you will
be in good shape throughout this
capture.

Following this, the girls will
run away, so capture the
Hariyama nearby and go into the
west room. In this bridge area,
get past the flame jets while
avoiding the falling boulders
from above. When you reach the
next room, be careful of the
magma trails left by the
Magcargo as you navigate the
room. To the south is a giant
Aggron, so approach it from the
sides/behind and capture it.
Capture a Torkoal as well, then
approach the hot boulder to the
south. Use a Pelipper to cool it
off, and the Hariyama to clear
it.

Next, ride the Torkoal onto the
magma and head westward along
it. Surface at the far end, and
capture the Drifblim floating
around. You will see a heavy
boulder to the north, so use
Aggron's Tackle 4 to remove it.
With that done, go up the steps
and step into the western light
and use Drifblim's Elevate to
float into the room above.
There, capture a Raichu and
recharge your Styler if needed
(or save it for later), then
save your game.

When you are ready to continue,
head northward and you will
finally meet Lavana. The two
minions will send two Monfernos,
so capture them easily to end
the battle. Following that,
Lavana will step forward and you
will have to face an Infernape.
It attacks by setting fire
pillars on the ground which last
for several moments, or it will
cause explosions to occur around
itself. Infernape will also hop
around often, which makes it all
the more difficult to capture
with the fiery obstacles on the
landscape. When the ground is
clear, that is the best time to
attempt capture. As you fill its
meter, the attacks will become
more plentiful, so be careful!

Once the battle ends
successfully, Lavana will
retreat. Use a Raichu to
recharge, then save your game
before continuing northward.
Watch out for the flying
boulders as you wait to get past
each set of fire jets. At the
top of the room, go ahead into
the final chamber. There, you
will spot the Red Gem; approach
it and you will be attacked by
Heatran.

During this battle, the most
annoying part by far is when
Heatran has "!!!" over its head,
which is when it places a giant
magma puddle on the ground.
Heatran's other attacks consist
of multiple explosions, lines of
fire moving outward from it, and
a "!" attack which sends several
waves straight ahead. If Heatran
stops moving, you need to
prepare for an attack, so take
advantage of the emptiness of
the early battle when it's
moving around. When there are
several magma pools, it makes
things very tough. Draw
carefully and around one of the
pools if possible, and you
should be fine.

Following the battle, you will
be entrusted with the Red Gem!
Step into the warp to reach the
cave entrance, then step outside
to exit.


Boyleland
---------

As you step out of the cave, you
will be greeted by the Elder. He
will give you the Mime Jr. as a
new Partner Pokémon! After the
scene ends, capture a Staraptor
and head back to the Ranger
Union.


Ranger Union
------------

As soon as you arrive, go inside
and you will automatically go
upstairs to see Chairperson
Erma. She will promote you to
Ranger Rank 7, which will also
allow you to have up to six
Friend Pokémon with you at the
same time! You will then get to
rest for the night. The next
day, meet Erma up on the roof
and you will watch the next
experiment take place. The
professor will ask you to go to
Haruba Desert and check up on
Keith; talk to Erma and she will
tell you to get there via the
Pueltown harbor. She also wants
you to visit Altru Park first,
so exit the building and make
your way to Altru Park.


Altru Park
----------

When you get here, you will see
a scene with the band from
earlier. You will also see Blake
from Altru give a speech. After
this is done, you will meet the
captain of the boat headed to
Haruba Desert. Since you now
have a way to get there, head to
Pueltown to the south.


Pueltown
--------

Here, head to the harbor in the
eastern area. This time, enter
the building by the dock and
talk to Capt. Haruba to get
going. During your ride on the
boat, you will hear a loud noise
and water pillars will shoot
upward. The boat will stop, and
now you will go diving into the
sea to investigate it.


Sea of Wailord
--------------

In this new area of the sea
floor, go west and save if you
want. Then, make your way
southward as you see some new
Pokémon. Capture a Huntail here,
then head westward. You will
spot a giant Wailord being held
captive. At this point, the
official mission will commence
to rescue it.


===========================
Mission 12: Rescue Wailord!
===========================

Sea of Wailord
--------------

When you have control, use
Huntail's Crush ability to
destroy the trap machine. After
that, a Team Dim Sun member will
emerge and will send a Seadra
and two Horseas to attack.
Capture them one at a time while
avoiding their bubbles and the
Seadra's wave attack. After the
capture is complete, go through
the pipe to reach the next area.
There, ride the water current to
the south and west until it
ends. Capture the Huntail nearby
and head northeast to find
another Team Dim Sun minion.
Choose to interfere of course,
and he will send four Finneons
after you.

After you capture the Finneons
quickly as a group (they're that
easy), use the Huntail to
destroy the second trap machine.
Then, ride the current to the
east and continue by going
north. To the west, you will
spot a group of Starmies that
will be sent by the Team Dim Sun
guy to attack. It will be
easiest to capture them quickly
one at a time; just watch out
for the orb attack and the
dashing attack. Once it's over,
the minion will challenge you to
chase him through the next area.
So, capture a Mantine and head
west.

In the next area, ride the
Mantine throughout the area
while avoiding the Qwilfish
floating around; they will
damage you if hit. Make your way
to the south and west, then ride
the water current and continue
northward along the west side.
When you reach the northern
point, go east and you will see
some more water currents. Get
across to the northbound
current, then disembark and
enter the next area. You will
meet up with that Team Dim Sun
member again, who will now run
off, so save your game again.

Capture a nearby Huntail, then
make your way north and east.
Ride the water current and
capture two Starmies to the
north, then head west. You
cannot clear the boulders in the
way for now, so go south into
another current. From here, go
south and use Starmie's Cut 3 to
cut the metal fence leading to
the southern area (so you don't
have to ride Mantine to get back
to this room). Then, go north
and east until you reach the
other metal fence. Clear it with
Starmie, then go south to find
yet another Team Dim Sun member.
Say yes to his question and
capture the Huntail and Gorebyss
he sends your way.

Once the minion flees, use your
own Huntail to clear the trap
machine. After that, capture the
nearby Huntail and take the tube
into the eastern room. In here,
the Team Dim Sun guy you meet
this time will send a Kingdra to
attack. Its attacks consist of
blowing bubbles ("!"), shooting
a wave beam of bubbles ("!!"),
and emitting two giant rings
("!!!"). It is a very simple
Pokémon to capture, luckily;
just look out for the bubbles
and the rest of the capture is
in the bag.

Once the minion retreats,
destroy the final trap machine.
As a result of your efforts, the
Wailord will be freed, thus
completing your mission!
However, Team Dim Sun will
arrive and capture the smaller
Wailmer. This will prompt the
Wailord to give chase, so ride
it to their hideout.


Oil Field Hideout
-----------------

After you arrive, save your game
and head east. You will meet up
with Sven once again. He will
take you on as his partner in
the investigation of the
hideout, so climb up the ladder
to reach the area above. There,
watch the scene with Kincaid and
other Team Dim Sun members.
After that, the mission will
officially begin.


================================
Mission 13: Reveal the Hideout's
Secrets!
================================

Oil Field Hideout
-----------------

If you want to leave the area,
capture a Staraptor; otherwise,
go around and enter the next
room. Go forward and ride the
elevator down into the room
below. Capture the Magneton
which will come in handy if you
need to recharge later on, then
head into the south room. Go
west past the intersection and
enter the first room you come
across. In there, you will spot
the electrical trap and the Team
Dim Sun guy checking it out.
Continue past him and enter the
room to the north.

In this room, you will spot a
Machamp, so be sure to capture
it. Also, capture the Luxio
wandering around in the corner.
Now, go back to the first
hallway and head north at the
intersection. Use Luxio's
Electrify 2 to break the gate in
the way, then enter that room.
In there, capture the Haunters
that will charge you as you
enter. Talk to the Team Dim Sun
minion in the corner and capture
the Jolteon he sends your way.

From here, go up the steps and
head west and south to the other
side. Capture the Luxray here,
then go back out of this room.
Head back to the other room with
the electrical machine in it,
and use Luxray's Electrify 3 to
stop it. With that done, exit
the room and continue west
through the hall. Capture the
Magneton for later if you want,
then go through the door at the
end of the hall.

In the next room, walk across to
confront the Team Dim Sun minion
who will send two Cacneas to
attack. They are very simple, so
capture them together quickly.
Once you're done here, go west
and follow the underwater tunnel
into the next room. There, you
will see a scene with the
captured Wailmer. Sven will
split up with you for now, so
head into the northern room. You
will run into a whole group of
Team Dim Sun folks here. They
will send eight Slakoths to
surround you; capture these
simple creatures quickly.

After the capture, the group
will push you out of the room
and lock the door. Now that your
initial route is cut off, head
south instead. When you come to
the hallway, enter the first
room. The Team Dim Sun member
will send a Mothim and a
Victreebel after you. Capture
them both and leave, then head
into the second room. This time,
you will meet two Team Dim Sun
minions, who will send a Murkrow
and a Honchkrow after you.
Capture them (they are also
simple), and leave this room
too.

Back out here, check the third
door out. It is locked for now,
so continue all the way through
the halls to the end. Enter the
door at the very end, where you
will find a Save Machine. Save,
then enter the western room. You
will come across Sven and Issac,
and then a Team Dim Sun member
will send two Mr. Mimes after
you. Capture them easily, and
Issac will agree to come with
you. Exit the room and continue
east, and follow the hallway all
the way around. Check the next
door you come to (the locked
one), and Issac will open it.
Approach the Skuntank inside
from the sides/behind, and
capture it.

Leave the room and continue east
and north to the other locked
door. Check it out, and Sven
will suggest using the Skuntank
to force the people inside to
come out. So, use Skuntank's
Stink ability when the "?"
appears, and enter that room
after it opens. This time, go
down the elevator to the bottom
floor. Down here, there will be
electrical trap floors, as well
as blue/red switches that will
raise/lower their respective
walls if pressed. Step on the
blue switch and head all the way
southward, then go east and
capture an Arcanine. Enter the
room there and the Team Dim Sun
minion will send two Mothims
after you. Capture them, then
capture the Luxray and use its
ability to shut down the first
generator.

Exit the room and head west,
then step on the red switch and
continue westward. Capture the
Luxray and head all the way
north and go through the door
into the next room. Capture the
two Skuntanks that the Team Dim
Sun guy inside sends after you.
Then, use Luxray's Electrify 3
to shut off the second
generator. Leave this room and
head south, grabbing a Luxray in
the southwest corner, then go
north and east and hit the red
switch. Follow that path east to
the electrified path, and head
north along the parts you shut
off. Get past the Honchkrow and
enter the room at the end.

In this room, the Team Dim Sun
minion will send out two
Machamps to attack. As a note,
the Machamps won't do their
shock wave attack if they are
not alone, so all you have to
worry about are the explosive
punches. Capture them both
together since they move slowly
and tend to stay close, then use
Luxray to shut down the final
generator. With the traps shut
down entirely, head southeast
into the new area.

In here, recharge your Styler
with the Magneton, and save your
game. After that, head north
into the next room. Follow the
tunnel and you will get a
strange voicemail from Keith.
Once it's over, continue onward
and say you are ready to enter
Kincaid's quarters. In there,
you will have to do battle with
a Gliscor. It attacks by
dropping mounds of damaging
dirt, sends out a couple of wind
gusts, and dashes back and forth
twice. You will have plenty of
good chances to fill up its
meter with your circles. When
it's 3/4 full, Gliscor will glow
and its attacks will become even
stronger/faster, so beware. It's
not worth charging up in this
stage, since it will take too
long and won't be so effective.

Once the capture is a success,
Kincaid will escape and the rest
of your group will leave via the
emergency exit. Outside, you
will get a voicemail from
Professor Hastings, who promotes
you to Ranger Rank 8! This also
boosts up your Power Charge's
level so you can charge even
longer for a greater effect!
After that's done, Sven will
take you by boat to the desert.


Haruba Village
--------------

When you arrive, Sven will drop
you off before leaving with
Issac. Talk to the lady ahead,
then capture a Pelipper floating
around. Use it on the Curious
Tree and capture the resulting
Sudowoodo, then head hwest into
the next area. Go west and you
will see one of those Gigaremo
units being used as a coffee
machine. The Pokémon in this
area are hypnotized by it,
however. Use Sudowoodo's Crush 2
to destroy it, and the sandstorm
will end. Talk to the man
nearby, then you will get
another odd voicemail from
Keith. After that, go north into
the desert.


Haruba Desert
-------------

In this area, head northward and
capture a Fearow when you see
it. Once you capture one, head
to the northwest area and use
Fearow's Cut ability to cut down
the vine hanging from the high
ledge. Then, climb it and head
into the second area. Go west
and north along the path until
you meet an explorer who will
talk about the Hippowdon Temple
ahead. After he leaves, continue
up the path and go east to the
temple entrance. Save your game
and use the nearby Magneton to
charge up if you need it.

When you're ready, go south onto
the sand. Watch out for the
twisters as you trudge through
the sand, as they will damage
you upon impact. The Hippowdon
is in this area as well, but it
is almost completely surrounded
by twisters. Try to capture the
Doduo in the southern area and
ride it along the sand (it will
help you move at a more normal
pace), then find the Hippowdon.
Carefully approach it through
the narrow opening between the
twisters, and you will have to
capture it. Watch out for the
sand mounds it forms, as well as
its shock wave attack. Its big
attack is an earthquake directly
ahead of it, so watch out.

After you capture it, the
sandstorm and twisters will
stop. So, head up the northeast
steps and return to the temple
entrance. This time, use
Hippowdon's Sand Fill ability to
fill up the pit in front of the
temple. When that is done, save
your game and enter the temple.


===============================
Mission 14: Get the Yellow Gem!
===============================

Hippowdon Temple
----------------

In here, make your way northward
and capture the Golems along the
way. Be careful as they will all
charge at you, so as usual,
approach from the sides or
behind. When you reach the top
of the room, you will see a
Buizel running ahead, so follow
it into the next room. Head east
through the long hallway,
capturing the Bronzors along the
way if you like. At the end of
the hall, go north into the next
room.

Up here, you will find sand
currents moving southward, and
if you walk on them, you will be
pushed in that direction. Follow
the first path northward and
east to the end, then go
directly south on the sand to
the next part. Continue along
the next path until it ends, and
head south across the sand
again. Be careful of the sand
orbs being blasted from holes in
the wall, as you will take
damage and get knocked back if
hit. Go north and east to the
end, then head southeast across
the next sand current. Then,
follow this path all the way
north into the next room.

Go west through the hallway of
Bronzors and a Bronzong, then
enter the north room at the end.
Capture the Drifblim and save
your game, then use its Elevate
ability to go upstairs. When you
land, go into the next room. In
here, you will have to get
across the room by jumping on
the springy leaves. So, jump
from leaf to leaf as you move
through the area. When you reach
the part where there are two
leaves, jump on the south one.
Enter the northwest room when
you land and capture the
Sandslash inside.

Leave this room and bounce on
the leaf, then use the northeast
leaf to reach the southeast
corner. Use Sandslash's Tunnel 1
to dig up the sand cover to
reveal a new leaf. Bounce on it
and head into the room to the
south. There, get past the
Gengar and Claydols (the Gengar
is tough because it moves and
attacks a lot). From here,
continue southward into the next
area (use the Magneton to
recharge if you need it).
Outside, go into the room via
the eastern nostril.

In this area, go north and you
will see a series of blocks that
appear and disappear to form
paths across the pit. The trick
here is to step onto the first
blocks, then when the next part
appears, walk onto the new ones,
and wait for the alternate
blocks to reappear. Repeat this
to get across the entire area,
then enter the following room.

The next room is full of arrow
paths which will automatically
move you along the directions
they point. Go north and onto
the eastbound arrows, then go
onto the eastern set of arrows
pointing to the north. In the
small area, take the northeast
arrows pointing eastward and you
will be in an area with sandy
floor. Go east on the next set
of arrows leading to the south.
When you stop, go around the
corner and take the arrows
directly to the north also
pointing to the north. From
there, go all the way to the
north wall and go west along the
arrows to stop in front of a
doorway. Enter that room and
capture the Tyranitar inside.

Leave this room and go directly
southward onto the arrows. When
you stop, go onto the eastbound
arrows next to you and you will
be in the sandy area. Go
eastward on the next set, then
when you are in the area
surrounded by arrows, take the
westbound arrows directly to the
west. At the other side, go
south and east along the regular
path, capturing a Banette along
the way. Follow the path all the
way east and north to the end,
then ride the arrows going
northward. At the end, go north
into the next room (if you take
the arrows going east and then
south, you can reach a room with
an Espeon inside).

In here, you will find a couple
of Bellossoms and a giant
boulder on the ground. Use the
Tyranitar you caught before to
destroy the boulder, revealing a
hole. Drop into the hole and you
will reach an oasis of sorts far
below. Use the Drifblim if you
want to go back via the light,
otherwise save your game and
recharge here. When you are
ready, go up the steps ahead and
enter the final room.

The Yellow Gem is ahead in here,
but you will have to do battle
with a Cresselia first. It is a
generally easy battle, since
Cresselia's attacks consist
mainly of a wave attack and
shooting dark orbs at you.
Periodically, Cresselia's "!!!"
attack will cause an orb to move
around the perimeter of the
screen for the rest of the
battle. As the battle wears on,
Cresselia will release
additional orbs to move around
the area, so watch out. Don't
waste your time charging up the
Styler; instead hurry up and
attempt to capture it whenever
it's in the center area, away
from the outer perimeter.

Once you make the capture, you
will be entrusted with the
Yellow Gem! This will complete
your mission, of course. A warp
will appear in the previous
room, so leave this room. As you
walk down the steps, you will
hear a helicopter approaching.
You will meet Heath of the Sinis
Trio, who has Keith held
captive. Trade the Yellow Gem
for Keith and you will have to
fight a Magnezone. It is easy to
beat as it has the typical
electric-type moves (electricity
surrounding it, electric orbs on
the ground, electric orb
rotating around it).

After you capture it, Keith will
be reunited with his Buizel. He
will then leave by himself, so
use the warp in the corner and
return to the entrance, then
exit the temple altogether.


Haruba Desert
-------------

Outside again, capture a
Staraptor and head back to the
Ranger Union.


Ranger Union
------------

Upon your return, go into the HQ
building as usual. Inside, you
will see Professor Hastings and
Chairperson Erma yet again, as
well as Keith. You will then
rest for the night. The
following day, watch the scene
with Issac and everyone else.
You will then be sent out to
patrol, so exit the room you are
in. Murph will come talk to you,
then after he leaves, go do
whatever you want (save,
recharge, do quests, etc.). When
you are ready to continue, come
back and talk to Erma as always.

Several hours later, everyone
will be on the building's roof
again. Watch the long scene here
and Operation Brighton will
commence. You will be left with
Keith to stay at the Ranger
Union, so head back downstairs
to the second floor for now.
When you get there, Murph will
come to warn you about something
downstairs.

Go down there and you will once
again be confronted by Heath. He
will send an Electivire after
you. Its attacks consist of two
electrical orbs rotating around
it for a brief period, launching
a single orb onto the ground for
a few moments, and then the
usual electrical barrier attack.
Keep your Styler to the sides
and charge up during the shock
wave attack, and wait for the
two rotating orbs to cease
before trying to safely capture
it. It is really easy to beat
despite its attacks.

After you capture the
Electivire, another explosion
will be heard upstairs. Heath
will taunt you, and then this
operation will be designated as
an official mission.


================================
Mission 15: Protect Ranger Union
HQ!
================================

Ranger Union
------------

Head upstairs and you will
witness a confrontation with the
Sinis Trio. They will take Issac
back, and you'll be left dealing
with Ice, who will send a
Garchomp to attack. It is an
annoying Pokémon to beat since
it moves very quickly, and sends
two large mud puddles on the
ground which damage you if
touched. It dashes at high speed
to attack as well, which makes
charging up to capture it
difficult, especially with the
mud puddles deployed. Whenever
Garchomp moves to an open area,
draw some circles around it to
fill its meter little by little.
If you have a Pokémon whose Poké
Assist can slow it down, that
will help immensely.

After the capture is complete,
you will find out there is
someone else on the third floor.
Head up there, where you will
find Wheeler and eight Bidoofs.
He will send them all after you,
so go ahead and capture them
easily. Wheeler and the rest of
Team Dim Sun will escape, but
you will not go after them for
now. Professor Hastings will
then give you a mission clear,
as well as promote you to Ranger
Rank 9! With this promotion, you
will be able to have up to seven
Friend Pokémon with you at once,
too.

Next, you will watch a scene
where the next mission will be
detailed. After the mission is
assigned, go downstairs and
save/recharge, then exit the
building. Capture a Staraptor
and fly to the Altru Building.


Altru Park
----------

As soon as you land here, head
north and you will see an image
of the completed Altru Tower
ahead. So, go forward to the
entrance, where you will see a
commotion going on. Walk ahead
to the man blocking the door and
he will send a Yanmega to attack
you. It only has two simple
attacks, both of which can be
avoided easily; just watch for
the "!" signs before the
attacks. After the capture, the
Team Dim Sun Admin will retreat,
so go inside the building to
start the mission.


================================
Mission 16: Execute Operation
Brighton!
================================

Altru Building
--------------

As soon as you step inside, you
will be confronted by two Team
Dim Sun minions. They are
harmless, so head up the hall
and another minion will sound an
alarm. You will be surrounded by
more of them, and two will send
a Weezing and Skuntank after
you. Watch out for the poisonous
puddles and you should be fine
as both Pokémon move rather
slowly. The admin will then
attack with two Nuzleafs and a
Shiftry. The Nuzleafs are
simple, but the Shiftry moves
quickly and sends wind gusts to
attack. Capture the Nuzleafs
first, then go for the Shiftry.

Following this capture, your
friends from the Vientown Ranger
Base will appear and occupy the
minions so you can proceed.
Enter the elevator to the north
and you will need a password to
proceed. Keith will ask you
about several different
passwords; say no until he
mentions "Melody". Say yes to
that one, and you will go up to
9F. When the elevator stops, you
will be confronted by a Team Dim
Sun Admin who will send two
Dusclops after you. Capture
them, then exit by climbing the
ladder.

Atop the elevator, use the
Magneton nearby to recharge,
otherwise climb up the tall
ladder to the east. At the top,
there will be another minion
waiting for you. He will send
three Gabites to attack; they
should be easy enough to capture
all at once since they seem to
stick together. Go up the next
ladder and two more minions will
drop in. Capture the two
Gengars, then climb up the next
couple of ladders to the top.
When you are confronted again,
capture the minion's Mamoswine,
then go into the east room.

In here, follow the path to the
end, where you will find an open
hatch. Jump into it and you will
reach a junk room below. When
you land, recharge and save,
then enter the following room.
You will see a scene with Team
Dim Sun down the hall. Once they
leave, you will be in this large
room with many different doors
you can enter.

Start off by entering the room
directly to the west of the
northern gate. In there,
confront the Team Dim Sun Admin
and capture the Mismagius and
Banette she sends your way
(capture the Banette first since
it is easier to deal with).
After the battle, capture the
Electabuzz in here before
leaving. Next, head to the
southwest room. Capture an
Absol, then use Electabuzz's
Flash to light up the room. A
Team Dim Sun guy will jump out,
so capture his Espeon and
Umbreon.

Now, leave this room and head to
the door directly east of the
gate. There will be a steel
frame in the way, so use Absol's
Cut ability to break through it.
Enter that room and you will
meet another Team Dim Sun Admin,
naturally. Capture the Bronzong
and Claydol, then he will run
off. Capture the Blaziken in
here before leaving. Head into
the southeast room now. Get past
the Ariados, then use Blaziken's
Burn 3 to destroy the Smoke
Detector. You will then have to
face a Team Dim Sun member and
his Aggron and Tyranitar.

Once you finish the capture, the
gate will be completely open.
Exit the room and head north to
the gate, where you will find a
guard in the way. Capture the
two Blazikens he sends your way,
and the guard will leave. Enter
that room and go forward to
reclaim the Yellow Gem, then the
researchers will open the next
door for you. So, leave this
room and go through the far
northwest door to reach a new
area.

As you enter, the lights will go
out, then you will be surrounded
by several minions. Capture the
five Spinarks they send your
way; they are easy and you can
capture them all at once if
you're lucky. After that, go
south and capture the Scizor you
encounter. Enter the southwest
room, but be careful as the
Electrodes will try to explode
and cause you damage. Get past
them and you will see an
Electabuzz trapped in a large
cage. Use Scizor's Cut 4 to
break the cage, which will shut
down the electric trap in the
hallway. Then, capture the
Electabuzz before leaving here.

Out in the hall again, go north
along the center path and you
will come to a door that won't
open at first. Keith will call
Barlow to come up and help break
down the door. When you make it
into the control room, you will
have to face a Team Dim Sun
Admin and the Pokémon he sends
your way (Alakazam, Sceptile,
and Luxray). Capture the
Sceptile and Luxray first, then
concentrate on the Alakazam as
it constantly teleports, making
it hard to capture easily.

After you successfully capture
them, watch the scene and then
leave the room with Issac in
tow. Go south to the end of the
hall and you will find yourself
surrounded by more Team Dim Sun
units. Capture the three
Skorupis that appear, then the
three Bronzors that show up
next. After the minions all
leave, capture the Absol
wandering around nearby, and
enter the southeast room. Use
Electabuzz's Flash to light up
the room, then get past the
Gabites in front of you. Use the
Absol's Cut 4 to break the large
cage in here, and capture the
Ampharos that jumps out.

Since the other electrical floor
is disabled, exit the room and
head to the northeast. As you
approach the security door,
Issac will try to open it while
you get ambushed once again.
Capture the three Bellossoms
followed by three Cacturnes.
After you clear them, you will
have to face a Flareon,
Vaporeon, and Jolteon all at
once. Their attacks are simple
to avoid, and it is possible to
catch them all at once since
they tend to stick close
together. When you are done, go
through the door to reach the
next area.

Out on the balcony, you will get
a voicemail from Professor
Hastings. You will then try to
put the plan in motion now that
you are on the roof, but Lavana
will appear and steal the Yellow
Gem back. After she goes back
inside, the Team Dim Sun girls
will send a Scizor and Gardevoir
to attack. Capture the Scizor
first even though it moves
quickly; it only has one simple
attack at this point. As for
Gardevoir, it warps around a
lot, so charge up and attempt to
capture it anytime it reappears.

After a successful capture,
Hastings will contact you via
voicemail again. He will then
send you the upgrade to your
Styler, now called the Vatonage
Styler! After you get the
upgrade, save your game and
enter the Altru Tower in the
center area.


Altru Tower
-----------

When you enter the tower, you
will be contacted by Sven and
Wendy regarding the barriers
above. Following this, capture
the Vaporeon (you'll see why
later) and a Magneton, then head
up the stairs to the next floor.
Watch out for the charging
Rhydon as you arrive in the room
here. Follow the path around and
you will see an electrical
barrier blocking the next set of
stairs. Continue ahead to the
doorway, then when you are
ready, enter the room to face up
against Heath.

You will have to face his
Rhyperior in here. This Pokémon
is not too tough, though its
move where boulders fall from
above can be quite annoying
(stay to the side and charge the
Styler during this). Rhyperior's
other attacks involve sending
out earthquakes in four
directions, jumping to cause a
shock wave, and throwing small
rocks forward.

After the capture, Heath will
run away and Issac will disable
the security on the first
Circuit Ball. Capture the Golem
outside of this room, and use
its Crush 3 to destroy the
target inside. After you do
that, you will get a voicemail
from Sven. Once it's over, go up
the stairs to reach the third
floor. Listen to the warning
that appears as you walk around
the room, then approach the door
and enter when you're ready (be
sure you recharge first with a
Magneton from the first floor).

Inside this room, you will be
facing Lavana and her Magmortar.
This battle is even easier than
the Rhyperior one, to be quite
honest. Magmortar attacks by
either causing an explosion
around itself, breathing fire,
and causing a series of fire
pillars to appear briefly. It
leaves enough time in between
attacks to safely draw your
circles, so charge up during one
of its attacks, then let loose
in between.

Following the capture, Issac
will disable the red barrier's
security. To destroy the Circuit
Ball, you will need Vaporeon's
Soak 3 ability. If you don't
have the one I told you to
capture when you first entered
the tower, go back down to the
first floor and grab it. Use its
ability to destroy the second
Circuit Ball in that room, then
head upstairs to the fourth
floor. Get past the Vaporeon and
Gardevoir as you approach the
door. When you are ready to face
Ice and his Gallade, go into
that room.

The Gallade attacks by sending
pairs of small waves straight
ahead, or dropping electrical
orbs on the ground for brief
periods. It teleports a lot
though, which will make a speedy
capture a bit difficult. As soon
as it reappears, that is a good
time to attempt the capture
until it signals an attack.
Sometimes it will show a "!" and
not attack, so be prepared for
false indications as well.

After you capture the Gallade,
Heath and Lavana will appear.
You will then have to fight all
three Pokémon at once
(Magmortar, Gallade, Rhyperior).
Since this is a group capture,
Gallade won't be able to
teleport unless it is alone, so
it would be best to go for that
one first. Rhyperior and
Magmortar are slow to move and
attack, so they each should not
be an issue afterward. All three
of them have the same moves as
when you fought them solo, so
there are no surprises either.

Once you win, you will recover
the Yellow Gem and Issac will
disengage the final barrier's
security. You will need
Electrify 3 to destroy the
Circuit Ball this time, so
capture an Ampharos on one of
the lower floors and bring it
back to succeed. Watch the scene
and listen to the voicemails
that take place, then head
upstairs to the next floor. Talk
to the guys here and continue to
the following floor. You will be
able to save your game up here
and recharge with a nearby
Magneton.

From here, try to head south and
you will find an electrical
barrier blocking the way
upstairs. Issac will suggest
checking the computer to the
north, so go by it and Issac
will disable it at the cost of
trapping himself by the
computer. At this point, all
that's left is to go to the
roof, so you need to be totally
ready for the end. Save your
game, recharge, get some Pokémon
so you have Poké Assists at your
disposal (and a Magneton to
recharge). When you are finally
ready, go upstairs to the roof.

Up here, you will meet President
Blake in person. Apparently he
thinks you are a bit too late to
stop the machine. His sidekick
Wheeler will then attack you
with a Bidoof, which is clearly
a push over. After that, Blake
will summon a Dusknoir to battle
you. Its attacks are generally
simple to avoid (the dark
fireball that follows your
Styler, the wave of shadow orbs,
and the strange orb that summons
an evil face to appear on the
ground briefly. It also summons
a bunch of dark fireballs to
rotate around it for a short
period. This is the safest time
to attempt the capture, so when
it's rounding up the fireballs,
charge up your Styler and go
crazy as Dusknoir moves around.
Be patient and take a break when
the fireball chases you around,
and this battle should be over
rather shortly.

After that, watch the scene with
Sven and Wendy, as well as Heath
and Blake. He will unleash the
Pokémon from the shadows
downstairs to attack, the
powerful Darkrai. When you enter
battle against it the first
time, you will find that you
cannot fill its meter at all.
After a short time, the battle
will end and some scenes will
take place. The gems will react
to your Styler, and you will
have control again. Go up to
Darkrai and enter battle with it
once more.

For this final battle, Darkrai
has a number of different
attacks. Its "!" attack will
shoot several small dark orbs
ahead of it, the "!!" attack
will send a shock wave out
around it, and the "!!!" attack
will cause multiple shock waves
to affect the entire battlefield
for several moments. During that
attack, it is best to not
attack/charge at all. The very
best time to attack, I've found,
is when you see it about to use
its "!!" attack. Charge up your
Styler from a distance, then as
soon as the one shock wave is
done, quickly draw your circles
until it warps away.

As the battle goes on, Darkrai's
attacks will of course become
stronger. At that point, you
should worry more about drawing
the circles in between attacks,
and not so much about charging
up first. If you need to
recharge during the battle, use
a Magneton which you should have
saved from earlier. If you have
a Fighting Pokémon with you, its
Poké Assist will help you cause
more damage to Darkrai in
shorter time, in case you're
having trouble filling its
meter.

When you finally capture
Darkrai, Professor Hastings will
appear as will your allies, and
the mission will be complete!
After that, watch a whole bunch
of scenes, followed by the
credits. Once they're over,
you'll be able to save your
game, so don't shut your game
off yet! You will be able to
reload the complete game save so
you can access more quests and
continue capturing Pokémon that
were previously unavailable.

After you go back to the title
screen once your game saves
following the credits, reload
your file. You will awaken in
Chicole Village, and will be
summoned by Chairperson Erma at
the Ranger Union. You will
automatically go there, where
you will be promoted to Ranger
Rank 10! She will also give you
a pass to enter the Capture
Arena (details of that in
another section of this guide).
From here, you can continue
playing the game, so
congratulations on beating this
game once!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Pokémon List -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

R-001. Pichu
    Found: Ranger School,
    Schoolyard, School Gate,
    Nabiki Beach, Marine Cave,
  Vien Forest
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    1 Description: It attacks by
    shooting bolts of
    electricity.

R-002. Pikachu
    Found: Volcano Cave, Cargo
    Ship, Chroma Road (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest
  Trees), Chroma Ruins, Crysta
  Cave, Vien Forest
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    3 Description: It attacks by
    blasting electricity from
    its body.

R-003. Raichu
 Found: Ice Lake, Volcano Cave
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    4 Description: It attacks by
    powerfully blasting
    thunderbolts from its body.

R-004. Bidoof
    Found: Ranger School,
    Schoolyard, Ascension
    Square, Nabiki Beach Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It occasionally
    pretends to attack.

R-005. Bibarel
    Found: Vien Forest,
    Pueltown, Union Road, Ranger
    Union, Cargo Ship Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Soak 2
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting out blobs of water.

R-006. Taillow
    Found: Schoolyard, Ascension
    Square, School Road, Nabiki
    Beach,
  Vien Forest
    Group: Flying Poké Assist:
    Flying Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It whips up
    gusts with its wings to
    attack.

R-007. Swellow
    Found: Union Road Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It whips up
    gusts with its wings to
    attack. It also rams
    targets.

R-008. Budew
    Found: Schoolyard, School
    Gate, Chicole Path Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It shoots seeds
    to attack.

R-009. Roselia
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering pollen.

R-010. Roserade
    Found: Vien Forest
    (during/after "Roserade Red,
    Roserade Blue?" Quest)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It shoots
    leaves and needles. It also
    scatters pollen to attack.

R-011. Squirtle
    Found: Ascension Square,
    Marine Cave Group: Water
    Poké Assist: Water Field
    Move: Soak 1 Description: It
    attacks by squirting water
    from its mouth.

R-012. Wartortle
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Soak 2
    Description: It attacks by
    squirting water from its
    mouth.

R-013. Blastoise
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Area Move: Rain Dance
    Description: It attacks by
    blasting water from the
    cannons on its back.

R-014. Zubat
    Found: Ranger School, Marine
    Cave Group: Flying Poké
    Assist: Flying Field Move:
    Cut 1 Description: It flits
    around and releases
    supersonic waves to attack.

R-015. Golbat
    Found: Crysta Cave Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It lets loose
    supersonic waves and spits
    poison to attack.

R-016. Crobat
    Found: Altru Building Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It spits poison
    and lets loose supersonic
    waves to attack.

R-017. Gastly
    Found: Ranger School Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Field Move: Psy Power 1
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting out eerie orbs.

R-018. Haunter
    Found: Almia Castle, Oil
    Field Hideout Group: Ghost
    Poké Assist: Ghost Field
    Move: Psy Power 2
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting out orbs imbued
    with loathsome emotions.

R-019. Gengar
    Found: Hippowdon Temple,
    Altru Building, Altru Tower
    Group: Ghost Poké Assist:
    Ghost Field Move: Psy Power
    3 Description: It attacks by
    spitting out eerir orbs and
    sinister ones
     imbued with loathing.

R-020. Buneary
Found: School Road, Vien Forest
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It quickly hops
    around and thrashes around
    to attack.

R-021. Lopunny
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: Its jumps
    create shock waves. It also
    thrashes around to attack.

R-022. Happiny
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: Its jumps
    create shock waves. It also
    throws rocks to attack.

R-023. Starly
    Found: Nabiki Beach (early
    in game only) Group: Flying
    Poké Assist: Flying Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    sends out twisters. It also
    rams to attack.

R-024. Staravia
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It sends out
    twisters. It also rams to
    attack.

R-025. Staraptor
    Found: Ranger Union, Altru
    Park, Boyleland, School
    Road, Chicole Path,
  Vien Forest, Chroma Road,
  Shiver Camp, Ice Lake, Haruba
  Desert (after getting Fine
  Styler)
    Group: Flying Poké Assist:
    Flying Map Move: Fly
    Description: It creates
    gusts with its large wings
    to attack.

R-026. Pachirisu
    Found: Nabiki Beach (early
    in game only) Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move: N/A
    Description: It discharges
    electricity from all over
    its body to attack.

R-027. Munchlax
    Found: Nabiki Beach (early
    in game only) Group: Normal
    Poké Assist: Normal Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    thrashes around to attack.

R-028. Makuhita
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It attacks with
    punches and tackles.

R-029. Hariyama
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It attacks with
    punches, shock waves, and by
    thrashing about.

R-030. Bonsly
    Found: Schoolyard, Vien
    Forest (use Soak 1 on
    Planted Tree) Group: Rock
    Poké Assist: Rock Field
    Move: Tackle 1 Description:
    It throws stones to attack.

R-031. Sudowoodo
    Found: Chroma Road, Haruba
    Village (use Soak 2 on
    Curious Tree) Group: Rock
    Poké Assist: Rock Field
    Move: Crush 2 Description:
    It attacks by dropping rocks
    every so often.

R-032. Slakoth
    Found: School Gate (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Tree)
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It hardly ever
    does anything. It may try a
    cutting slash on occasion.

R-033. Seedot
    Found: Chicole Path (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Tree)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    shooting seeds.

R-034. Nuzleaf
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: While
    protecting itself with
    leaves, it also scatters
    them to attack.

R-035. Shiftry
    Found: Vien Forest (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Dark Poké Assist: Dark Field
    Move: Cut 3 Description: It
    whips up winds with its
    arms, then sends out
    twisters to attack.

R-036. Tangrowth
    Found: Ranger School
    (graduation), School Gate
    (use Crush 2 on Rock) Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It launches a
    poison powder to attack.

R-037. Shellos
Found: Nabiki Beach, Marine Cave
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 1
    Description: It spits orbs
    of water to attack.

R-038. Gastrodon
    Found: Marine Cave (use
    Crush 2 to enter room behind
    boulder),
  Volcano Cave
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 2
    Description: It spits orbs
    of water and hunks of dirt
    to attack.

R-039. Glameow
    Found: Nabiki Beach, Vien
    Forest (inside cave) Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It attacks with
    cutting slashes.

R-040. Purugly
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks with
    shock waves.

R-041. Geodude
    Found: Marine Cave, Peril
    Cliffs (use Soak 1 on Chunky
    Rock) Group: Rock Poké
    Assist: Rock Field Move:
    Crush 1 Description: It
    hurls stones to attack.

R-042. Graveler
    Found: Marine Cave, Peril
    Cliffs, Volcano Cave (use
    Soak 2 on Rugged
  Rock)
    Group: Rock Poké Assist:
    Rock Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It hurls rocks
    and stones to attack.

R-043. Golem
    Found: Hippowdon Temple,
    Altru Tower Group: Rock Poké
    Assist: Rock Field Move:
    Crush 4 Description: It
    hurls stones to attack. It
    also opens fissures in the
    ground.

R-044. Nosepass
    Found: Marine Cave Group:
    Rock Poké Assist: Rock Field
    Move: Crush 2 Description:
    It hurls stones to attack.

R-045. Probopass
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Rock Poké Assist: Rock Field
    Move: Crush 4 Description:
    It hurls magnetic hunks. It
    also triggers rockfalls to
    attack.

R-046. Miltank
    Found: Vientown (during
    "Calm Down Miltank" Quest),
    Chroma Road Group: Normal
    Poké Assist: Normal Field
    Move: Tackle 2 Description:
    It attacks by letting loose
    shock waves and thrashing
    around.

R-047. Cherubi
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It shoots seeds
    to attack.

R-048. Cherrim
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It scatters
    leaves and seeds to attack.

R-049. Shinx
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 1 Description: It
    discharges electricity from
    all over its body to attack.

R-050. Luxio
    Found: Cargo Ship, Oil Field
    Hideout, Vien Forest Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 2 Description: It
    spits blobs of electricity
    and discharges electric
    bolts from its body.

R-051. Luxray
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 3 Description: It
    discharges electric bolts
    from its body. It also makes
       thunderbolts fall.

R-052. Turtwig
    Found: Breeze Hill (during
    "Please Save Turtwig" Quest)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: N/A
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting leaves and seeds.

R-053. Grotle
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks by
    launching leaves like
    daggers.

R-054. Torterra
    Found: Vien Forest (use
    Tackle 4 on Moving Tree)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Tackle 4
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering leaves and
    shooting seeds.

R-055. Buizel
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Soak 1
    Description: It spits orbs
    of water to attack.

R-056. Floatzel
    Found: Union Road (after
    starting Mission 10), Crysta
    Cave, Vien Forest Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Area Move: River Flow 1
    Description: It spits orbs
    and blobs of water to
    attack.

R-057. Weedle
    Found: Vien Forest (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Trees)
    Group: Bug Poké Assist: Bug
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting sticky silk.

R-058. Beedrill
    Found: Vien Forest (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Tree by
    Save Machine),
  Chroma Highlands
    Group: Bug Poké Assist: Bug
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It attacks with
    poison stingers while flying
    around at high speed.

R-059. Combee
    Found: Vien Forest, Chroma
    Road (use Tackle 1 on Forest
    Trees) Group: Bug Poké
    Assist: Flying Field Move:
    Cut 1 Description: It lets
    loose gusts of wind to
    attack.

R-060. Vespiquen
    Found: Chroma Road
    (during/after "Apologies to
    Vespiquen" Quest) Group: Bug
    Poké Assist: Bug Field Move:
    Crush 3 Description: It
    launches gooey blobs and
    poisonous needles to attack.

R-061. Tyrogue
    Found: Pueltown Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It dashes about
    quickly and throws punches
    to attack.

R-062. Magnemite
    Found: Pueltown, Union Road,
    Peril Cliffs, Volcano Cave
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Field Move:
    Recharge 2 Description: It
    attacks by sending out bolts
    of electricity.

R-063. Magneton
    Found: Oil Field Hideout,
    Haruba Desert, Hippowdon
    Temple, Altru Building
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    5 Description: It discharges
    electricity from its body.
    It protects itself
   with an electric barrier.

R-064. Magnezone
    Found: Cargo Ship (after
    Mission 14) Group: Electric
    Poké Assist: Electric Field
    Move: Electrify 3
    Description: It generates
    magnetism from its body. It
    protects itself
   with an electric barrier.

R-065. Growlithe
    Found: Pueltown, Union Road
    Group: Fire Poké Assist:
    Fire Field Move: Burn 2
    Description: It attacks by
    breathing fire and throwing
    tackles.

R-066. Arcanine
    Found: Oil Field Hideout,
    Altru Tower Group: Fire Poké
    Assist: Fire Field Move:
    Burn 4 Description: It
    blasts out expanding rings
    of fire. It also throws
       tackles to attack.

R-067. Rattata
    Found: Pueltown Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    chomping with its powerful
    front teeth.

R-068. Raticate
    Found: Pueltown, Cargo Ship
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It attacks by
    chomping with its powerful
    front teeth.

R-069. Chatot
    Found: Pueltown Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It uses sounds
    to attack.

R-070. Elekid
    Found: Pueltown Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 2 Description: It
    attacks by launching
    electrified orbs.

R-071. Electabuzz
    Found: Cargo Ship, Chroma
    Ruins, Altru Building Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Area Move: Flash
    Description: It discharges
    electricity from its body.
    It attacks by
 shooting bolts of electricity.

R-072. Electivire
    Found: Ranger Union (battle
    with Heath) Group: Electric
    Poké Assist: Electric Field
    Move: Electrify 3
    Description: It discharges
    electricity from its body.
    It protects itself
   with an electric barrier.

R-073. Magby
    Found: Pueltown Group: Fire
    Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 1 Description: It
    attacks by launching
    fireballs.

R-074. Magmar
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 2 Description: It
    attacks by letting loose
    fireballs and breathing
    streams of fire.

R-075. Magmortar
    Found: Volcano Cave (after
    Mission 16) Group: Fire Poké
    Assist: Fire Field Move:
    Burn 5 Description: It lets
    loose flames from its hands.
    It also has an
       explosive attack.

R-076. Voltorb
    Found: Pueltown, Cargo Ship
    Group: Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 2 Description: It
    lets loose bolts of
    electricity to attack.
    Beware: It may explode!

R-077. Electrode
    Found: Altru Building Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 3 Description: It
    discharges electricity from
    its body. Beware: It may
    explode!

R-078. Wingull
    Found: Pueltown, Boyleland
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 1
    Description: It rams to
    attack.

R-079. Pelipper
    Found: Volcano Cave, Haruba
    Village Group: Water Poké
    Assist: Water Field Move:
    Soak 3 Description: It spits
    water to attack.

R-080. Croagunk
    Found: School Road (en route
    to Mission 7) Group: Poison
    Poké Assist: Poison Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    lets loose a poison gas and
    a poisonous fluid from its
        mouth to attack.

R-081. Toxicroak
    Found: Pueltown Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It lets loose a
    poison gas and a poisonous
    fluid from its
        mouth to attack.

R-082. Kricketot
    Found: Partner Farm Group:
    Bug Poké Assist: Bug Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    attacks using sounds while
    hopping around.

R-083. Kricketune
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Bug Poké Assist: Bug Field
    Move: Cut 2 Description: It
    throws gooey blobs. It also
    attacks using sounds.

R-084. Cranidos
    Found: Vien Forest (during
    "Please Save Cranidos"
    Quest) Group: Rock Poké
    Assist: Rock Field Move: N/A
    Description: It rams with
    its rock-hard head.

R-085. Rampardos
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Rock Poké Assist: Rock Field
    Move: Tackle 5 Description:
    It rams with its rock-hard
    head. It also hurls stones
    to attack.

R-086. Finneon
Found: Puel Sea, Sea of Wailord
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It spits
    bubbles and orbs of water to
    attack.

R-087. Lumineon
    Found: Puel Sea (during "The
    Boy Who Cried Lumineon"
    Quest) Group: Water Poké
    Assist: Water Field Move:
    Crush 2 Description: It
    spits bubbles and orbs of
    water to attack.

R-088. Chinchou
    Found: Puel Sea Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    2 Description: It attacks by
    shooting bolts of
    electricity.

R-089. Lanturn
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Recharge Map Move: Recharge
    4 Description: It discharges
    electricity from its body.
    It attacks by
 shooting bolts of electricity.

R-090. Mantyke
    Found: Puel Sea Group: Water
    Poké Assist: Water Field
    Move: Tackle 1 Description:
    It spits bubbles to attack.

R-091. Mantine
Found: Puel Sea, Sea of Wailord
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Area Move: Swim
    Description: It swims
    leisurely. It rams to
    attack.

R-092. Qwilfish
Found: Puel Sea, Sea of Wailord
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 1
    Description: It shoots
    needles to attack.

R-093. Corsola
    Found: Puel Sea Group: Water
    Poké Assist: Water Field
    Move: Crush 2 Description:
    It blows bubbles from its
    mouth to attack.

R-094. Staryu
    Found: Puel Sea Group: Water
    Poké Assist: Water Field
    Move: Cut 1 Description: It
    attacks by launching strange
    orbs and by spinning around.

R-095. Starmie
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It attacks by
    launching strange orbs and
    by spinning around.

R-096. Sharpedo
Found: Puel Sea, Sea of Wailord
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Crush 4
    Description: It swims around
    at wicked speed. It attacks
    by biting and ramming.

R-097. Eevee
    Found: Pueltown
    (during/after "Eevee for
    Marital Bliss" Quest) Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It quickly
    dashes about and charges to
    attack.

R-098. Vaporeon
Found: Almia Castle, Altru Tower
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 3
    Description: It attacks by
    letting loose blobs of water
    and bubbles from its mouth.

R-099. Jolteon
    Found: Haruba Desert Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 3 Description: It
    attacks by discharging bolts
    of electricity from all over
    its body.

R-100. Flareon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 3 Description: It
    attacks by spitting
    fireballs and breathing
    streams of fire.

R-101. Espeon
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Psychic Poké Assist:
    Psychic Area Move: Teleport
    Description: It spits eerie
    orbs of energy to attack. It
    protects itself with a
    psychic barrier.

R-102. Umbreon
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Dark Poké Assist: Dark Field
    Move: Cut 3 Description: It
    attacks by releasing a dark
    pulse.

R-103. Leafeon
    Found: Vien Forest
    (during/after "Murph's
    Ranger Contest" Quest)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It scatters
    leaves and makes vines grow
    out of the ground to attack.

R-104. Glaceon
    Found: Ice Lake
    (during/after "Murph's
    Ranger Contest" Quest)
    Group: Ice Poké Assist: Ice
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It shoots an
    icy beam from its mouth. It
    also attacks with hunks of
    ice.

R-105. Mareep
    Found: Union Road Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 1 Description: It
    attacks by shooting bolts of
    electricity.

R-106. Flaaffy
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Electric Poké Assist:
    Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 2 Description: It
    attacks by shooting bolts of
    electricity.

R-107. Ampharos
    Found: Altru Building, Altru
    Tower Group: Electric Poké
    Assist: Electric Field Move:
    Electrify 3 Description: It
    attacks by scattering
    charged orbs of electricity
    and shooting electric bolts.

R-108. Aipom
    Found: Union Road Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    throwing rocks with its tail
    and by tackling.

R-109. Ambipom
    Found: Vien Forest (during
    the "Who Ate My Lunch!?"
    Quest) Group: Normal Poké
    Assist: Normal Field Move:
    Crush 2 Description: It
    hurls rocks and stones with
    its tails to attack.

R-110. Pineco
Found: Union Road, Peril Cliffs
    Group: Bug Poké Assist: Bug
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It blows itself
    up.

R-111. Forretress
    Found: Vien Forest Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It flings gooey
    blobs. Beware: it may
    explode.

R-112. Spearow
Found: Union Road, Peril Cliffs
    Group: Flying Poké Assist:
    Flying Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It attacks by
    whipping up twisters with
    its wings.

R-113. Fearow
    Found: Haruba Desert Group:
    Flying Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It flies around
    at high speed and charges to
    attack.

R-114. Oddish
    Found: Union Road (use
    Tackle 1 on Strange Weed)
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It attacks by
    shooting its leaves and
    letting loose
       poisonous pollen.

R-115. Gloom
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering clouds of
    poisonous pollen.

R-116. Vileplume
    Found: Chroma Highlands (use
    Tackle 3 on Huge Flower)
    Group: Poison Poké Assist:
    Poison Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering different kinds
    of pollen.

R-117. Bellossom
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: While
    protecting itself with
    leaves, it also scatters
    them to attack.

R-118. Yanma
    Found: Union Road (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Tree)
    Group: Flying Poké Assist:
    Flying Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It flits around
    while launching supersonic
    waves and shock waves.

R-119. Yanmega
    Found: Altru Park (after
    Mission 15) Group: Bug Poké
    Assist: Bug Field Move: N/A
    Description: It spits gooey
    silk. It attacks by letting
    loose shock waves.

R-120. Larvitar
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Rock
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It hurls rocks
    and stones to attack.

R-121. Pupitar
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Rock
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It leaps around
    incredibly quickly while
    ramming to attack.

R-122. Tyranitar
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Rock Poké Assist:
    Rock Field Move: Crush 4
    Description: It is a vicious
    Pokémon that triggers
    rockfalls and shoots
     beams from its mouth.

R-123. Pinsir
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Bug Poké Assist: Bug Field
    Move: Cut 2 Description: It
    rams with the powerful horns
    on its head to attack.

R-124. Numel
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Ground
    Field Move: Burn 1
    Description: It spits embers
    and blobs of fire to attack.

R-125. Camerupt
    Found: Crysta Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 3 Description: It
    spits embers and, from its
    back, lobs blobs of fire.

R-126. Mankey
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It angers
    easily and thrashes about.
    It is easier to capture
       after it thrashes.

R-127. Primeape
    Found: Altru Building, Altru
    Tower Group: Fighting Poké
    Assist: Fighting Field Move:
    Crush 3 Description: It
    thrashes about extremely
    wildly. It is easier to
    capture when it stops.

R-128. Gligar
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It flits
    around, ramming and slashing
    to attack.

R-129. Gliscor
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    (during Mission 12) Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It launches twisters and
    hunks of dirt. It also rams
    to attack.

R-130. Mawile
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It launches
    magnetic hunks to attack. It
    also bites.

R-131. Aron
    Found: Peril Cliffs Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It rams with
    its iron head to attack.

R-132. Lairon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It rams with
    its iron head to attack.

R-133. Aggron
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Tackle 4
    Description: It opens up
    fissures in the ground. It
    also rams to attack.

R-134. Doduo
    Found: Union Road, Pueltown,
    Vien Forest, Chicole Path,
    School Road,
  Schoolyard, Chroma Road,
  Haruba Desert (after clearing
  Mission 6)
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Map Move: Agility
    Description: It attacks by
    pecking with its sharp beaks
    and charging.

R-135. Dodrio
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks by
    pecking with its sharp
    beaks.

R-136. Carnivine
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It shoots seeds
    to attack.

R-137. Charmander
    Found: Volcano Cave,
    Schoolyard (after Mission 8)
    Group: Fire Poké Assist:
    Fire Field Move: Burn 1
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting embers.

R-138. Charmeleon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 2 Description: It
    attacks by spitting embers
    and blobs of fire.

R-139. Charizard
    Found: Volcano (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 4 Description: It
    spits blobs of fire. It also
    lets loose expanding rings
       of fire to attack.

R-140. Slugma
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 1 Description: It
    spits embers and blobs of
    fire to attack.

R-141. Magcargo
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 2 Description: It
    spits embers and blobs of
    fire to attack.

R-142. Drifloon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Area Move: Airlift
    Description: It launches
    eerie orbs to attack.

R-143. Drifblim
    Found: Chroma Ruins, Volcano
    Cave, Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Ghost Poké Assist:
    Ghost Area Move: Elevate
    Description: It launches
    eerie orbs to attack.

R-144. Stunky
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It scatters
    poison to attack.

R-145. Skuntank
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Area Move: Stink
    Description: It lets loose
    poison gas while it walks.
    It attacks by
 spitting up a poisonous fluid.

R-146. Kangaskhan
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It launches
    powerful beams from its
    mouth to attack.

R-147. Shuppet
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Field Move: Psy Power 1
    Description: It spits cursed
    orbs to attack.

R-148. Banette
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Ghost Poké Assist:
    Ghost Field Move: Psy Power
    2 Description: While
    protecting itself with
    ghostly fire, it attacks
    with eerie orbs.

R-149. Rhyhorn
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ground
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It opens up
    fissures in the ground to
    attack.

R-150. Rhydon
    Found: Volcano Cave, Haruba
    Desert, Altru Tower Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ground
    Field Move: Tackle 3
    Description: It throws
    around its body in a
    rampage. It rams to attack.

R-151. Rhyperior
    Found: Altru Tower (during
    Mission 16) Group: Ground
    Poké Assist: Ground Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    lets loose shock waves to
    attack. It also triggers
    rockfalls.

R-152. Muk
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting poison and letting
    loose poisonous fog.

R-153. Houndour
    Found: Cargo Ship, Almia
    Castle, Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Dark Poké Assist:
    Dark Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It spits blobs
    of fire and lets loose dark
    pulses to attack.

R-154. Houndoom
    Found: Hia Valley, Oil Field
    Hideout Group: Dark Poké
    Assist: Dark Field Move:
    Burn 2 Description: It spits
    blobs of fire and lets loose
    dark pulses to attack.

R-155. Spinarak
    Found: Cargo Ship Group: Bug
    Poké Assist: Bug Field Move:
    Tackle 1 Description: It
    spits gooey silk from its
    mouth. It also spins webs
    around itself.

R-156. Ariados
    Found: Hippowdon Temple,
    Altru Building Group: Bug
    Poké Assist: Bug Field Move:
    Tackle 3 Description: It
    spins webs around itself
    while moving about.

R-157. Ralts
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: While warping
    from place to place, it
    launches strange orbs to
    attack.

R-158. Kirlia
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Map Move: Teleport
    Description: While warping
    from place to place, it
    launches strange orbs to
    attack.

R-159. Gardevoir
    Found: Altru Tower Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: Psy Power 3
    Description: It scatters
    strange orbs while
    protecting itself with a
        psychic barrier.

R-160. Gallade
    Found: Altru Building (after
    Mission 16) Group: Fighting
    Poké Assist: Fighting Field
    Move: Cut 5 Description: It
    attacks with gusts of
    luminous wind and strange
    orbs. It
      also fakes attacks.

R-161. Machop
    Found: Peril Cliffs (during
    "What Happened to Machop!?"
    Quest) Group: Fighting Poké
    Assist: Fighting Field Move:
    N/A Description: It attacks
    by punching and launching
    orbs of aura power.

R-162. Machoke
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Tackle
    2 Description: It attacks by
    throwing punches and
    launching shock waves.

R-163. Machamp
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It attacks with
    devastating punches and
    shock waves.

R-164. Mime Jr.
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It launches strange orbs to
    attack. It protects itself
    with
       a psychic barrier.

R-165. Mr. Mime
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Psychic Poké Assist:
    Psychic Map Move: Teleport
    Description: It uses a
    psychically made barrier to
    shield itself.

R-166. Drowzee
    Found: Cargo Ship Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It lets loose
    strange orbs from the palms
    of its hands to attack.

R-167. Hypno
    Found: Chroma Ruins, Altru
    Building Group: Psychic Poké
    Assist: Psychic Field Move:
    Psy Power 2 Description: It
    lets loose strange orbs from
    the palms of its hands to
    attack.

R-168. Chimchar
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    (during "Please Save
    Chimchar" Quest) Group: Fire
    Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    spits embers to attack.

R-169. Monferno
Found: Cargo Ship, Volcano Cave
    Group: Fire Poké Assist:
    Fire Field Move: Burn 2
    Description: It spits embers
    and blobs of fire to attack.

R-170. Infernape
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 3 Description: It
    spits blobs of fire to
    attack. It also has an
    explosive attack.

R-171. Vulpix
    Found: Cargo Ship, Hia
    Valley, Ice Lake, Almia
    Castle Group: Fire Poké
    Assist: Fire Field Move:
    Burn 1 Description: It forms
    a ring of ghostly fire
    around itself for
    protection.

R-172. Ninetales
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 4 Description:
    While protecting itself with
    a ghostly ring of fire, it
    breathes streams of fire to
    attack.

R-173. Skorupi
    Found: Haruba Desert,
    Hippowdon Temple Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It spits poison
    needles and a poisonous
    fluid to attack.

R-174. Drapion
    Found: Cargo Ship (during
    Mission 8) Group: Poison
    Poké Assist: Poison Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    spits poison needles and
    poisonous fluid. It also
    forms
  poisonous puddles to attack.

R-175. Lickilicky
    Found: Cargo Ship (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It pokes out
    its tongue to attack.

R-176. Ponyta
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 1 Description: It
    attacks by launching fire
    and charging.

R-177. Rapidash
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Fire Poké Assist:
    Fire Field Move: Burn 3
    Description: It attacks by
    launching fire and charging.

R-178. Girafarig
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks by
    launching psychic orbs and
    psychic shock waves.

R-179. Tauros
    Found: Chroma Road Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It thrashes
    wildly and rams to attack.

R-180. Ninjask
    Found: Chroma Road (use
    Tackle 1 on Forest Trees)
    Group: Bug Poké Assist: Bug
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It flies around
    at blinding speed.

R-181. Shieldon
    Found: Peril Cliffs (during
    "Please Save Shieldon"
    Quest) Group: Steel Poké
    Assist: Steel Field Move:
    N/A Description: It rams
    with its rock-hard head. It
    also makes stones drop to
    attack.

R-182. Bastiodon
    Found: Chroma Highlands,
    Chroma Ruins Group: Steel
    Poké Assist: Steel Field
    Move: Tackle 3 Description:
    It rams with its rock-hard
    head. It also makes stones
    drop to attack.

R-183. Abra
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Psychic Poké Assist:
    Psychic Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It warps around
    to evade capture. Listen for
    its cries for your chance to
    catch it.

R-184. Alakazam
    Found: Altru Tower Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Map Move: Teleport
    Description: It warps around
    to move. It attacks by
    letting loose strange orbs.

R-185. Murkrow
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Dark Poké Assist:
    Dark Field Move: Cut 1
    Description: It attacks by
    releasing a dark pulse.

R-186. Honchkrow
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Dark Poké Assist:
    Dark Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It looses gusts
    of dark wind and twisters.
    It also attacks
       with dark pulses.

R-187. Koffing
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Poison Poké Assist:
    Poison Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering poison gas.

R-188. Weezing
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Poison Poké Assist: Poison
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering poison gas and
    spitting up pools of poison.

R-189. Skarmory
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    Group: Steel Poké Assist:
    Steel Area Move: Demist
    Description: It whips up
    gusts with its large wings.
    It also uses its ironclad
    body to attack.

R-190. Duskull
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Field Move: Psy Power 1
    Description: While
    protecting itself with
    ghostly fire, it attacks
    with eerie orbs.

R-191. Dusclops
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Ghost Poké Assist:
    Ghost Field Move: Psy Power
    3 Description: It attacks by
    launching cursed orbs and
    orbs imbued with
      loathsome emotions.

R-192. Dusknoir
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    (after completing game once)
    Group: Ghost Poké Assist:
    Ghost Field Move: Psy Power
    3 Description: It protects
    itself with a ghostly fire.
    It attacks with eerie orbs.

R-193. Sableye
    Found: Chroma Ruins,
    Hippowdon Temple, Altru
    Building Group: Dark Poké
    Assist: Dark Field Move: Cut
    2 Description: It launches
    eerie orbs and dark pulses
    to attack.

R-194. Sandshrew
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ground
    Field Move: Tunnel 1
    Description: It hurls lumps
    of sand to attack.

R-195. Sandslash
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Ground Poké Assist:
    Ground Field Move: Tunnel 1
    Description: It hurls lumps
    of sand to attack.

R-196. Spiritomb
    Found: Chroma Ruins Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It warps from rock to rock.
    It uses a variety of
    attacks.

R-197. Spheal
 Found: Crysta Cave, Hia Valley
    Group: Ice Poké Assist: Ice
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting hunks of ice.

R-198. Sealeo
 Found: Crysta Cave, Hia Valley
    Group: Ice Poké Assist: Ice
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It attacks by
    blowing powdered snow and
    hunks of ice from its mouth.

R-199. Walrein
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Ice Poké Assist: Ice Field
    Move: Crush 3 Description:
    It attacks by spitting hunks
    of ice and letting loose
    blizzards.

R-200. Swinub
    Found: Crysta Cave Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ice
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It breathes
    powdered snow and rams to
    attack.

R-201. Piloswine
 Found: Crysta Cave, Hia Valley
    Group: Ground Poké Assist:
    Ice Field Move: Tackle 3
    Description: It breathes
    powdered snow to attack.

R-202. Mamoswine
    Found: Altru Building
    (during Mission 16) Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ground
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It triggers tremors and
    breathes powdered snow to
    attack.

R-203. Jigglypuff
    Found: Crysta Cave Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    singing to send out musical
    notes.

R-204. Wigglytuff
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Normal Poké Assist: Normal
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It attacks by
    singing to send out musical
    notes. It also
  jumps to create shock waves.

R-205. Chingling
    Found: Crysta Cave Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Map Move: Teleport
    Description: It attacks with
    strange orbs and sounds.

R-206. Piplup
    Found: Hia Valley (during
    "Please Save Piplup" Quest)
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: N/A
    Description: It spits water
    to attack.

R-207. Prinplup
    Found: Hia Valley Group: Ice
    Poké Assist: Ice Field Move:
    Cut 2 Description: It hurls
    blobs of water. It also
    attacks by ramming.

R-208. Empoleon
    Found: Ice Lake Group: Water
    Poké Assist: Water Area
    Move: River Flow 2
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting bubbles and blobs
    of water.

R-209. Delibird
    Found: Hia Valley (use
    Tackle 1 on Snow Trees)
    Group: Ice Poké Assist: Ice
    Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It hurls hunks
    of ice to attack.

R-210. Jynx
 Found: Ice Lake, Almia Castle
    Group: Psychic Poké Assist:
    Psychic Map Move: Teleport
    Description: It attacks by
    launching strange orbs. It
    protects itself with a
    psychic barrier.

R-211. Snover
    Found: Volcano Cave (during
    "Snover's Mysterious
    Presence" Quest) Group: Ice
    Poké Assist: Ice Field Move:
    N/A Description: It attacks
    by launching leaves and
    hurling hunks of ice.

R-212. Abomasnow
    Found: Ice Lake (use Tackle
    3 on Solid Snow) Group: Ice
    Poké Assist: Ice Field Move:
    Crush 3 Description: It
    throws leaves to attack. It
    also summons blizzards.

R-213. Snorunt
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Ice Poké Assist: Ice Field
    Move: Crush 1 Description:
    It blows powdered snow and
    hunks of ice from its mouth
    to attack.

R-214. Glalie
    Found: Almia Castle, Altru
    Building Group: Ice Poké
    Assist: Ice Field Move:
    Crush 3 Description: It
    flies around at incredible
    speed while making blocks of
    ice fall.

R-215. Froslass
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Ice Poké Assist: Ice Field
    Move: Crush 4 Description:
    It makes hunks of ice fall.
    It protects itself with a
    ghostly fire.

R-216. Scyther
    Found: Almia Castle, Altru
    Building Group: Bug Poké
    Assist: Bug Field Move: Cut
    3 Description: It attacks by
    slashing with both arms
    while jumping around.

R-217. Scizor
    Found: Altru Building Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: Cut 4
    Description: It dashes
    around quickly while
    attacking with its steel
    pincers.

R-218. Dratini
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It attacks by
    breathing blue flames that
    are unique to
     Dragon-group Pokémon.

R-219. Dragonair
    Found: Almia Castle
    (during/after "Elaine's
    Favorite" Quest) Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It attacks by
    breathing blue flames. It
    also has a mysterious
    barrier for protection.

R-220. Misdreavus
    Found: Chroma Ruins (during
    "Misdreavus Mischief
    Mystery" Quest) Group: Ghost
    Poké Assist: Ghost Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    attacks by letting loose
    psychic orbs and ones imbued
    with loathsome emotions.

R-221. Mismagius
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Ghost Poké Assist: Ghost
    Field Move: Psy Power 3
    Description: It attacks by
    launching eerie orbs and
    orbs imbued with
      loathsome emotions.

R-222. Riolu
    Found: Almia Castle Group:
    Fighting Poké Assist:
    Fighting Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It leaps around
    quickly while throwing
    punches to attack.

R-223. Lucario
    Found: Almia Castle (during
    Mission 10) Group: Fighting
    Poké Assist: Fighting Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    launches orbs of aura power.
    It becomes stronger if its
    aura cloaks it.

R-224. Torkoal
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Area
    Move: Magma Flow
    Description: It launches
    blobs of fire from its back
    to attack.

R-225. Bagon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Tackle 1
    Description: It tackles to
    attack.

R-226. Shelgon
    Found: Volcano Cave Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It breathes
    blue flames and attacks
    while thrashing about.

R-227. Salamence
    Found: Vien Forest, Crysta
    Cave (after completing game
    once) Group: Dragon Poké
    Assist: Dragon Field Move:
    Crush 4 Description: It lets
    loose shock waves and
    breathes powerful flames.

R-228. Heatran
    Found: Volcano Cave (during
    Mission 11) Group: Fire Poké
    Assist: Fire Field Move: N/A
    Description: It attacks by
    launching magma that
    explodes.

R-229. Horsea
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It blows
    bubbles from its mouth to
    attack.

R-230. Seadra
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Soak 3
    Description: It blows
    bubbles from its mouth to
    attack.

R-231. Kingdra
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Crush 4
    Description: It blows
    bubbles from its mouth and
    lets loose widening
   rings of water to attack.

R-232. Huntail
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Dark
    Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It attacks by
    letting loose dark pulses
    and biting.

R-233. Gorebyss
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It attacks by
    spitting out orbs of psychic
    power.

R-234. Tentacruel
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It shoots
    poisonous needles and
    scatters poison to attack.

R-235. Omanyte
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It blows
    bubbles from its mouth to
    attack.

R-236. Omastar
    Found: Sea of Wailord
    (during/after "Unidentified
    Fleeing Omastar" Quest)
    Group: Water Poké Assist:
    Water Field Move: Soak 3
    Description: It shoots
    bubbles from its mouth to
    attack.

R-237. Wailmer
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: Tackle 2
    Description: It blows
    bubbles from its mouth and
    lets loose widening
   rings of water to attack.

R-238. Wailord
    Found: Sea of Wailord Group:
    Water Poké Assist: Water
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    This Pokémon is a
    gargantuan. It is far too
    big to capture.

R-239. Cacnea
    Found: Oil Field Hideout,
    Haruba Desert Group: Grass
    Poké Assist: Grass Field
    Move: Tackle 1 Description:
    It attacks by scattering
    needles.

R-240. Cacturne
    Found: Haruba Desert (use
    Tackle 2 on Scarecrow)
    Group: Dark Poké Assist:
    Dark Field Move: Crush 2
    Description: It attacks by
    scattering needles.

R-241. Mothim
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Bug Poké Assist:
    Flying Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It lets loose
    twisters and poison dust
    while protecting
 itself with a psychic barrier.

R-242. Victreebel
    Found: Oil Field Hideout,
    Hippowdon Temple Group:
    Grass Poké Assist: Grass
    Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It shoots
    leaves and slops poison
    around to attack.

R-243. Sceptile
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    Group: Grass Poké Assist:
    Grass Field Move: Cut 3
    Description: It dashes about
    quickly while shooting
    leaves to attack.

R-244. Sneasel
    Found: Almia Castle (during
    "Mischeivous Sneasel" Quest)
    Group: Dark Poké Assist:
    Dark Field Move: N/A
    Description: It hurls blocks
    of ice and sends gusts of
    dark wind to attack.

R-245. Weavile
    Found: Almia Castle (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Dark Poké Assist: Dark Field
    Move: Cut 4 Description: Its
    attacks consist of gusts of
    dark wind, hunks of ice, and
    dark pulses.

R-246. Hippopotas
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    (during "Who Is on
    Hippowdon's Nose?" Quest)
    Group: Ground Poké Assist:
    Ground Field Move: N/A
    Description: It causes
    tremors and spits hunks of
    sand to attack.

R-247. Hippowdon
    Found: Haruba Desert Group:
    Ground Poké Assist: Ground
    Area Move: Sand Fill
    Description: It triggers
    tremors and opens fissures
    in the ground. It
   also spits hunks of sand.

R-248. Bronzor
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Steel Poké Assist:
    Steel Field Move: Crush 1
    Description: It launches
    iron balls and strange orbs
    to attack.

R-249. Bronzong
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Steel Poké Assist:
    Steel Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It launches
    iron balls and strange orbs
    to attack.

R-250. Claydol
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    Group: Psychic Poké Assist:
    Psychic Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It scatters
    mysterious energy orbs. It
    also lets loose
psychic energy waves to attack.

R-251. Gible
    Found: Volcano Cave (during
    "Pelipper's Plea" Quest)
    Group: Dragon Poké Assist:
    Dragon Field Move: N/A
    Description: It spits hunks
    of dirt to attack.

R-252. Gabite
    Found: Hippowdon Temple,
    Altru Building Group: Dragon
    Poké Assist: Dragon Field
    Move: Cut 3 Description: It
    spits hunks of dirt to
    attack. It also slashes with
    powerful claws.

R-253. Garchomp
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    (after Mission 15) Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Crush 5
    Description: It spits hunks
    of dirt to attack. It also
    rams at incredible speed.

R-254. Cresselia
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    (during Mission 14) Group:
    Psychic Poké Assist: Psychic
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It lets loose strange orbs.
    It attacks by spitting orbs
    of psychic power.

R-255. Blaziken
    Found: Altru Building Group:
    Fire Poké Assist: Fire Field
    Move: Burn 3 Description:
    Its kicks send fireballs
    flying. It also sends out
    pillars
       of fire to attack.

R-256. Absol
    Found: Altru Building, Altru
    Tower Group: Dark Poké
    Assist: Dark Field Move: Cut
    4 Description: It launches
    dark pulses and gusts of
    dark wind to attack.

R-257. Darkrai
    Found: Altru Tower (during
    Mission 16) Group: Dark Poké
    Assist: Dark Area Move: Dark
    Power Description: It sends
    gusts of dark wind and lets
    loose dark pulses to attack.

R-258. Aerodactyl
    Found: Peril Cliffs (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Rock Poké Assist: Flying
    Field Move: Crush 4
    Description: It flies around
    while firing a powerful beam
    and supersonic
     waves from its mouth.

R-259. Flygon
    Found: Habura Desert (after
    completing game once) Group:
    Dragon Poké Assist: Dragon
    Field Move: Cut 4
    Description: It flies around
    while letting loose
    supersonic waves and shock
    waves.

R-260. Altaria
    Found: Chroma Highlands
    (after completing game once)
    Group: Dragon Poké Assist:
    Dragon Field Move: Cut 2
    Description: It protects
    itself with a curious
    barrier. It attacks with
   twisters and blue flames.

R-261. Togekiss
    Found: Altru Tower (during
    "White Pokémon for Peace?"
    Quest) Group: Normal Poké
    Assist: Normal Field Move:
    Cut 3 Description: It spits
    aura orbs and twisters to
    attack. It protects
 itself with a strange barrier.

R-262. Porygon-Z
    Found: Oil Field Hideout
    (after completing game once)
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Field Move: Crush 3
    Description: It protects
    itself with a strange
    barrier. It attacks by
  discharging electric bolts.

R-263. Celebi
    Found: Vien Forest
    (during/after "Wish for Vien
    Forest" Quest) Group: Grass
    Poké Assist: Grass Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    protects itself with a
    psychic barrier. It attacks
    by
  shooting high-speed leaves.

R-264. Regirock
    Found: Vien Forest (use
    Crush 5 on Rock Statue)
    Group: Rock Poké Assist:
    Rock Field Move: N/A
    Description: It opens
    fissures in the ground. It
    also triggers rockfalls to
    attack.

R-265. Regice
    Found: Almia Castle (use
    Burn 5 on Ice Statue) Group:
    Ice Poké Assist: Ice Field
    Move: N/A Description: It
    sends out shock waves. It
    also attacks with blocks of
    ice.

R-266. Registeel
    Found: Chroma Ruins (use Cut
    5 on Steel Statue) Group:
    Steel Poké Assist: Steel
    Field Move: N/A Description:
    It guards itself with an
    electric barrier. It hurls
    hunks of
   magnetism and electricity.

R-267. Regigigas
    Found: Hippowdon Temple
    (after capturing all 266
    Pokémon and visiting
  Ranger Union)
    Group: Normal Poké Assist:
    Normal Field Move: N/A
    Description: It creates a
    shock wave with every step.
    It throws punches to attack.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Quests -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

====================
1. Calm Down Miltank
====================

Client: Little Tim (Vientown)
Reward: Grass Defense 1
Description: I got asked to do
the milking. I surely would,
even though I'm
   deathly a-scared of Pokémon,
   but our Miltank's gone all
   feisty on me... Can you go to
   my farm and calm down my
   Miltank?

For your very first quest, you
are sent to the Vientown farm.
Enter the farm and exit via the
eastern door to reach the yard.
Talk to Little Tim and he will
point to the Miltank which has
been agitated all day. Capture
it to complete the quest (it
only attacks by charging across
the area, so it's easy to
avoid).


============================
2. Breeze Hill Sign Recovery
============================

Client: Webster (Vientown)
Reward: Dark Defense 1
Description: A falling rock
flattened the sign for Breeze
Hill. I'm hoping to
   fix the sign, but that giant
   rock is hopelessly in the
   way. Can you do something
   about it?

Head to Nabiki Beach and follow
the path going northwest towards
Breeze Hill. You will spot a
giant rock sitting alongside the
path near the Glameow. You need
a Pokémon with Crush 2 in order
to clear it. If you go into the
Marine Cave nearby, you can get
a Graveler or a Nosepass. Clear
the rock with their ability and
Webster will come with a new
sign, effectively ending the
quest.


==================
3. Is Combee Okay?
==================

Client: Old Woman (Vientown)
Reward: Electric Defense 1
Description: After that awful
forest fire, the cute Combee
haven't come
   around. It would reassure me
   so if you would let me see an
     adorable Combee again.

For this quest, all you need to
do is capture a Combee and bring
it back to the old woman. Head
into the second area of the Vien
Forest and you should find a
couple of them floating around.
Capture one and bring it back to
complete the quest.


====================
4. Clear the Crates!
====================

Client: Man (Vien Forest)
Reward: Bug Defense 1
Description: Some sketchy
characters ditched a bunch of
wooden crates in the
   forest near here. I broke
   most of them up except for
   two. But now, I'm plain worn
   out. Can you take over for
   me?

From where you accept the quest,
head into the next area of the
forest. If you head up the steps
to the north, you will spot the
two crates on the plateau. Use a
Pokémon with Crush 1 to destroy
them (you can continue northeast
and capture a couple of
Beedrills with Crush 2, which
will work just as well). Once
you clear them both, go back and
talk to the man to complete the
quest.


=============================
5. The Boy Who Cried Lumineon
=============================

Client: Fishing Kid (Pueltown)
Reward: Rock Defense 1
Description: I caught a
Lumineon, but no one believes
me. Can someone take a
   boat out to Puel Sea and
   prove that Lumineon live
   there? If you capture one,
   its data will be recorded, so
   that will do as proof!

After accepting the quest, enter
the boat house nearby. Talk to
the captain inside and he will
take you out to the Puel Sea.
Once you dive in, make your way
to the final area where the
Sharpedo is. This time, a
Lumineon will be following the
Sharpedo around the area. Use
the water currents to catch up
to it, then capture the
Lumineon. Get back to the
beginning and surface, then
return to the boy to complete
the quest.


================================
6. Nosepass! Must Have Nosepass!
================================

Client: Man (Pueltown) Reward:
Ground Defense 1 Description:
What is it, you ask? The answer
is Nosepass! It's Nosepass above
   all! Nothing else will do!
   Deprive me of my food, but
   not Nosepass! I can't tell
   you why now, but, please,
   bring me a Nosepass!

For this quest, you simply need
to capture a Nosepass and bring
it back to the man. Head to the
Marine Cave near Vientown and
capture one, then return with it
to complete the quest.


=====================
7. Who Ate My Lunch!?
=====================

Client: Man (Vien Forest)
Reward: Power Plus A
Description: A Pokémon grabbed
my lunch and hightailed it. It
went off to the
   west of Vien Forest. The
   Pokémon had two tails that
   ended in what I took to be
   hands. Can you find it and
   bring it to me?

For this quest, simply head to
the area directly west of where
you meet the man. You will spot
an Ambipom hopping around, so
capture it. Bring it back to the
man and they will walk off,
ending this simple quest.


==========================
8. Eevee for Marital Bliss
==========================

Client: Old Man (Pueltown)
Reward: Steel Defense 1
Description: Our Eevee has gone
missing. Can someone fetch it
for us? I'm not
   sure if this is a useful hint
   or not, but our Eevee likes
   the sea breeze.

Head to the harbor area of
Pueltown after accepting the
quest. Get to the northeast area
and head up the stairs, then
capture the Raticate atop the
steps. Continue west and south
along the upper path, and you
will spot the Eevee. Capture it,
then return it to the old man to
finish this quest.


==================
9. Oddish Research
==================

Client: Herbert (Altru Park)
Reward: Fire Defense 1
Description: We need an Oddish
for research purposes. We've had
no success
   finding one, however. Is it
   possible for you to bring one
   in?

Head to the second area of Union
Road, by the cabin. You will
spot the Oddish burying itself
in the ground, becoming a
Strange Weed. Use a Pokémon with
Tackle 1 (you can get a Pineco
nearby to do this) on the weed
to reveal the Oddish. Capture it
and bring it back to Herbert to
complete the quest.


====================
10. Light the Leaves
====================

Client: Janice (Ranger School)
Reward: Time Assist A
Description: I hurt my back
while raking the leaves in the
school yard. The
   leaves are gathered in three
   piles. Can I get you to set
   fire to them?

Go outside to the Schoolyard and
you will spot three piles in the
area (one in the center area,
one to the southwest, and one on
the northeast plateau). Capture
a Charmander in the area and use
its Burn 1 ability to burn each
pile of leaves. You will need to
recapture the Charmander each
time. Once you clear the three
piles, your job here is done.


==========================
11. Clear Some Fallen Logs
==========================

Client: Mr. Woodward (Vientown)
Reward: Long Line A Description:
I'd appreciate it if someone
could clear away some fallen
logs
   in Vien Forest. They're
   blocking paths, much to the
   annoyance and inconvenience
   of all. There were two, if I
   recall correctly.

After accepting the quest, head
back into Vien Forest. In the
first area, there will be two
Fallen Logs in your way. You
need Cut 2 to clear them, so
head north across the bridge to
the second area. Find and
capture a Roselia in this area,
and use it to clear the first
fallen log. Go back and capture
another one, and you will find
the second log further along the
path. Once you clear them both,
go back to Vientown and talk to
Mr. Woodward to clear the quest.


================================
12. Cherrim, Cherrim, Come to Us
================================

Client: Nectar Sisters (Union
Road) Reward: Ghost Defense 1
Description: Bring us a Cherrim.
Pretty please? Real ones should
be on a
   cliff. Yes, high up on Peril
   Cliffs. That's where they
   are.

Head to the Peril Cliffs after
accepting this quest. Make your
way to the area with the vines
and the Gligars floating around.
There, climb up the vines and go
as far to the east as you can.
Use a Staravia to cut the vines
down if you need to, then climb
up and capture the Cherrim on
the small ledge there. Bring the
Cherrim back to the girl on
Union Road to end this quest.


===========================
13. Team Dim Sun's Appetite
===========================

Client: Elder's Granddaughter
(Boyleland) Reward: Recovery A
Description: That man all by
himself in the hidden harbor...
He's actually a
   member of Team Dim Sun. But I
   feel sorry for him being out
   there alone. Can you go look
   in on him?

After you accept the quest,
enter the Volcano Cave to the
north. Make your way through the
cave until you reach the hidden
harbor area. You will come
across two crates in your way;
use two Pokémon with the Crush
ability to clear them. The man
will come out and attack you, so
capture the Charmander he sends
your way. After that, you will
bring him back to the Elder's
house and the quest will end.


========================
14. That Smell of Muk...
========================

Client: Oscar (Boyleland)
Reward: Poison Defense 1
Description: I'm a collector of
exquisite fragrances. I have
long sought the
   effervescent aroma of Muk to
   no avail. I have it on good
   authority that one was seen
   in a cave in Boyle Volcano. I
   must have its aroma! You must
   capture it!

For this quest, head into the
Volcano Cave. Make your way to
the room where the Muk is
located, and capture it. Then,
exit the cave and talk to Oscar
again to complete the quest.


==============================
15. Dim... Sun... Come Back...
==============================

Client: Young Lady (Pueltown)
Reward: Ice Defense 1
Description: My two, squat,
dark, and handsome darlings have
left me for life
   on the streets! They're
   running wild and cavorting in
   Pueltown, so please, reel
   them in back to Mama! Oh, my
   darlings Dim and Sun are
   Murkrow!

There are two Murkrows on the
loose in Pueltown, and you are
sent to find them both. One is
in the eastern area of town, out
in the open. The other one is on
the roof of the tall building in
the west section. To get onto
the roof, you have to enter the
building and go up the stairs.
Once you have captured them
both, bring them back to the
lady to complete the quest.


==========================
16. Apologies to Vespiquen
==========================

Client: Jam-maker (Union Road)
Reward: Energy Plus Description:
On the road to the Chroma
Highlands, a Vespiquen and her
   sidekicks are buzzing around
   out of control. It's all my
   fault. I made them furious.
   Sorry, but can you go settle
   them down?

After accepting the quest, head
to Chroma Road. Get to the
northern area where the two
paths converge, and go down the
eastern path. You will be
spotted by a Combee, who will
retreat back to the nearby tree.
The Vespiquen and two Combees
will come out to attack, so
capture them to finish the
quest.


====================
17. Lonely Chingling
====================

Client: Lady (Pueltown) Reward:
Dragon Defense 1 Description:
Our family Chingling spent all
its time alone. Eventually, she
   even forgot how to cry. I
   would like her to meet a
   friend. I've heard there is a
   Chingling living deep in
   Crysta Cave, which
      leads to Hia Valley.

Head to the Crysta Cave and get
to the area where there are many
small ledges you can drop onto
from above. Make your way to the
southeast area and use a
Floatzel's ability at the dock,
and ride into the eastern area.
Disembark in the new area and
enter the small room ahead to
find a Chingling. Capture it,
then bring it back to the lady
to complete the quest.


======================
18. Abomasnow Research
======================

Client: Herbert (Shiver Camp)
Reward: Fighting Defense 1
Description: I came to Hia
Valley on orders from Prof.
Hastings to study
   Abomasnow up close. May I ask
   you to bring one here?

When you accept this quest,
first capture a Pilowswine in
Hia Valley (approach it from
behind or else it will charge at
you). Then, head north to the
Ice Lake. Ride the Empoleon to
the second area of the lake,
then make your way to the
northwest corner. Follow the
westmost path into the next
area, then continue northward
breaking through the ice blocks
along the way. When you reach
the pier, disembark and you will
spot a mound of solid snow. Use
Piloswine's Tackle 3 on it to
reveal Abomasnow. Capture it,
then bring it back to the camp
to end this quest.


=================
19. Melt the Ice!
=================

Client: Pamur (Shiver Camp)
Reward: Water Defense 2
Description: Crysta Cave can be
one dangerous place. Huge chunks
of ice
   crumble and come crashing
   down every so often. This
   time around, there are three
   big blocks of ice in the way.
   Can you deal with them?

For this quest, head to Crysta
Cave and you will find three
giant chunks of solid ice. They
need to be melted, so you need a
Pokémon with at least Burn 2 in
order to accomplish this. You
can find a Camerupt in the
northeast room connected to the
first large area, which has Burn
3. The three ice blocks are
located in the room outside of
where you find the Camerupt, at
the top of the room with the
ledges, and in the room with the
Save Machine by the bridge. You
will have to go back and forth
to recapture the Camerupt for
each of them, of course. Once
you melt all three of them, go
back to Pamur in the Shiver Camp
to finish off this quest.


=============================
20. Drifblim's Moving Service
=============================

Client: Old Man (Pueltown)
Reward: Power Plus B
Description: All the times I've
moved, I've always had some
Drifblim do all
   the heavy lifting. But this
   time, I forgot about asking
   them! Please, could you
   return with some Drifblim?
   Three would be dandy!

For this quest, you need to get
three Drifblims and bring them
back to the old man. The best
place to fetch them is the
Chroma Ruins; you will have to
go all the way through until you
climb out at the end in order to
achieve this, though. Once you
have amassed the required three,
bring them back and the quest
will end.


============================
21. Secure the Hidden Harbor
============================

NOTE: You must complete Quest 13
(Team Dim Sun's Appetite) before
accessing
 this quest.

Client: Fishing Guide
(Boyleland) Reward: Fire Defense
2 Description: There's this
excellent, out-of-the-way
fishing spot deep inside
   of Boyle Volcano. But now, I
   can't get to it because two
   walls of fire have blocked
   the path there. It'd be great
   if you'd put them out.

After accepting this quest,
first go into the eastern
entrance of the Volcano Cave and
capture two Pelippers. After
that, exit and reenter the cave
via the western entrance. Make
your way through the rooms,
using Drifloons to cross the
gaps along the way. There are
two fiery walls; use Pelipper's
Soak 3 to put them out. Once you
encounter and extinguish both
flames, exit the cave and talk
to the fishing guide again to
end the quest.


========================
22. Thaw the Frozen Door
========================

Client: Research Team Member
(Hia Valley) Reward: Normal
Defense 2 Description: The dome
hut on the west side of Shiver
Camp has a problem. A
   lump of ice formed in front
   of its door. It's impossible
   to open
  it. Can you open it for us?

In the Shiver Camp, there will
be a block of ice in front of
the southwest dome. You need a
Pokémon with Burn 2 in order to
melt it. In the nearby Crysta
Cave, you can quickly capture
the Camerupt in one of the
rooms. Then, use its Burn 3 to
melt the ice. With that done,
talk to the guy in Hia Valley
again to complete the quest.


===========================
23. My Precious Fishing Rod
===========================

Client: Angler (Pueltown)
Reward: Psychic Defense 2
Description: I took a boat out
and went fishing in the Sea of
Wailord. I
   hooked something big. The
   fact is, it was so big, it
   took off with my fishing rod
   and all! That rod's precious
   to me. Find it, please!

Head down to the Sea of Wailord
(talk to the captain next to the
Angler inside the dock
building). In the sea, head
south and west to the second
area. There, you will be shown a
sparkling object on the sea
floor. Go south and west, then
north and east around the water
currents until you reach that
spot. It will be near a Kingdra
(you don't have to capture it).
Check the sparkling spot to get
the fishing rod back. Now, go
back and talk to the Angler, and
the quest will be over.


================================
24. Unidentified Fleeing Omastar
================================

NOTE: You must complete "The Boy
Who Cried Lumineon" before
accessing this
 quest.

Client: Angler (Pueltown)
Reward: Latent Power A
Description: What I'm asking you
to do is take a boat out to the
Sea of
   Wailord, take a dive, and
   check that there really is an
   Omastar down there. When you
   capture it, you'll get its
   data. That'll do nicely as
   evidence!

For this quest, head down to the
Sea of Wailord. Make your way to
the area where the Omanyte is
(it's in front of two large
boulders in a corner). Capture a
Kingdra or Sharpedo in other
areas of the Sea of Wailord, as
well as a Mantine, and use the
Kingdra/Sharpedo to break one of
the boulders. In the next area,
use Mantine's Swim ability in
the deep section to follow a
path around to an otherwise
inaccessible area. There you
will find the Omastar, so
capture it and go back to the
Angler to finish up the quest.


=====================
25. Cacturne Research
=====================

Client: Herbert (Haruba Village)
Reward: Grass Defense 2
Description: This time, it's
Cacturne I'm after. They are
purportedly in the
   desert, but they've thus far
   eluded my eye. May I ask you
   to bring one here?

Head into the Haruba Desert via
the lower path (east of the
Ranger Depot). Capture a Fearow,
then head to the southwest area.
When you get there, go west and
use Fearow's Cut ability to cut
down the vine on the western
ledge. Climb up it and you will
spot the Cacturne. If you're not
quick enough, use a Pokémon with
Tackle 2 on the Scarecrow to
reveal it. Capture the Cacturne,
then return to the village to
complete the quest.


================================
26. Smell of Skuntank and
    Weezing
================================

Client: Oscar (Haruba Village)
Reward: Dark Defense 2
Description: So, you may ask
yourself, "What is missing from
Oscar's vast
   collection of fragrances?"
   Why, none other than Weezing
   and Skuntank! I implore you
   to bring them back to me.
   Both together, naturally!

As the quest suggests, you need
to find and capture a Skuntank
and a Weezing. The Weezing is
located not so far within the
Almia Castle. The Skuntank can
be found in the Oil Field
Hideout, in the same room that
you found it earlier for the
mission. After you find and
capture both of these Pokémon,
return to Oscar and you will be
done here.


===========================
27. Capture Gigaremo Units?
===========================

Client: Henry (Haruba Village)
Reward: Ghost Defense 2
Description: I was in Hippowdon
Temple when I saw them! They
must be the
   latest model of Gigaremo!
   And, wonder of wonders, they
   were moving about on their
   own power! Isn't this where
   you come in?

For this quest, head to
Hippowdon Temple. Make your way
through the temple until you
reach the room with the four
Claydols (it's after the springy
leaf room). There will be two
Claydols out of place, and they
will attack you. Capture them
both and the quest will be
complete.


=====================
28. Elaine's Favorite
=====================

Client: Ollie (Vientown) Reward:
Combo Bonus Description: I want
to show Elaine her favorite kind
of Pokémon up close.
   That's why I'd like you to
   bring back a Dragonair for
   her. They
say there's one in Almia Castle.

After you accept this quest,
head over to Almia Castle. Go
into the northern doorway from
the main hall, and continue all
the way to the top floor. Get
across the second ice room and
the room after it will have a
Raichu and a Save Machine. Enter
the northern doorway on the west
side of the room. In that room,
you will now see a Dragonair as
well. Capture it, then bring it
back to Ollie and Elaine to
finish the quest.


==========================
29. Murph's Ranger Contest
==========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Murph (Ranger Union)
Reward: Time Assist B
Description: So, this is my
contest, and the theme is Eevee!
The seven
   evolutions of Eevee are
   Vaporeon, Jolteon, Flareon,
   Espeon, Umbreon, Leafeon, and
   Glaceon. Gotta capture 'em
   all and bring 'em to me!

As the quest states, you need to
capture all seven evolutions of
Eevee, as listed above. You can
catch them in any order you
want, but you need to have all
seven of them with you when you
talk to Murph to complete the
quest. Keep in mind that you can
only have seven Friend Pokémon
with you at once after
completing the game, so you
won't have room to use a
Staraptor, Empoleon, or another
Pokémon to escape if you are at
a far off location. The
evolutions can be found in the
following locations:

    Vaporeon: Altru Tower
    Jolteon: Habura Desert
    (upper exit from Habura
    Village) Flareon: Volcano
    Cave (east entrance) Espeon:
    Hippowdon Temple (east room
    from arrow-filled area)
    Umbreon: Chroma Ruins
    Leafeon: Vien Forest (area
    accessible with River Flow
    1) Glaceon: Ice Lake (use
    River Flow 2 from eastern
    dock outside castle)

Due to its proximity and lack of
special abilities to access it,
it would be best to save
Vaporeon for last. That way, you
can go to the Altru Tower with a
Staraptor, capture it, then walk
back to the Ranger Union from
there. Either way, once you have
all seven, go back to Murph and
the quest will be complete.


================================
30. Roserade Red, Roserade Blue?
================================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Rhythmi (Ranger Union)
Reward: Bug Defense 2
Description: The flower on
Roserade's right hand... I can't
remember if it
   was red or blue. There's a
   big argument going on over
   that! Supposedly, there's one
   deep in the forest. Will you
   capture one for us?

For this quest, you are sent to
capture a Roserade. It is found
in the Vien Forest, but you will
need the River Flow ability to
access the area where it is
found (capture a Floatzel south
of the Ranger Union first). In
Vien Forest, get to the dock and
use River Flow to follow the
stream to the northwest. Don't
stop at the first dock, but
continue all the way northward
to the very end of the stream.
Get off at that dock and follow
the path southward through two
areas and you will find the
Roserade in front of a cave.
Capture it and bring it back to
complete the quest.


=======================
31. Charge Up the Trio!
=======================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Nage (Ranger Union)
Reward: Electric Defense 2
Description: Raichu, Luxray, and
Ampharos. That threesome appears
to be what
   we need for our studies. They
   look capable of generating
   seriously powerful
   electricity. Please, bring
   them to us.

For this quest, you need to
capture three Pokémon: Raichu,
Luxray, and Ampharos. This
shouldn't take too long, as long
as you know where to look. In
case you forgot, you can capture
them at these locations:

 Raichu: Volcano Cave, Ice Lake
    Luxray: Oil Field Hideout
    Ampharos: Altru Building,
    Altru Tower

Once you have them all, go back
to Nage with them to complete
the quest.


=========================
32. Access the Ice Castle
=========================

NOTE: You must complete
"Mischievous Sneasel" and
complete the game once to
 access this quest.

Client: Mrs. Winter (Hia Valley)
Reward: Flying Defense 2
Description: Three huge blocks
of ice are blocking the way to
Almia Castle.
   They're quite the nuisance!
   Please, won't someone clear
   those blocks of ice?

For this quest, you will be sent
to clear three blocks of solid
ice just outside of the Almia
Castle entrance. You need Burn 2
to clear them, and the closest
Pokémon with that is the single
Ninetales inside of the castle.
If you don't bring any other
Pokémon with you from other
areas (Chroma Highlands has
three Rapidash roaming around,
conveniently enough), you will
have to go back and forth with
the Ninetales. Regardless, once
you melt the blocks, go back to
Mrs. Winter to finish off the
quest.


================
33. Mom's Recipe
================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest. You
must also
 complete "Things That Go
 Bump...".

Client: Mom (Chicole Village)
Reward: Fighting Defense 2
Description: This is your mother
speaking. My hands aren't free,
so please
   read me the recipe I have
   taped to the fridge. I'm
   sorry this is such a silly
   Quest.

For this quest, all you have to
do is check the fridge in your
house. As soon as you read the
recipe written on a note there,
your mom will be happy and the
quest will end.


============================
34. White Pokémon for Peace?
============================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Little Girl (Altru Park)
Reward: Poison Defense 2
Description: There is a white
Pokémon at the top of Altru
Tower that stands
   for peace. Everyone should
   know what it is. You're a
   nice Ranger, so you'll bring
   it to show me, won't you?

Here, you are sent to capture
the Pokémon atop Altru Tower.
So, head to the tower and make
your way to the roof (where you
battled Darkrai earlier). As
soon as you go up the steps, you
will see the white Pokémon
floating around. Capture it
(Togekiss), and bring it back to
the girl to end the quest.


========================
35. Please Save Cranidos
========================

Client: Young Guy (Vien Forest)
Reward: Cranidos (Partner
Pokémon) Description: Earlier, I
saw a Cranidos being chased by a
Wartortle in Vien
   Forest. I felt sorry seeing
   the Cranidos run. Can you go
   rescue it?

From where you accept the quest,
head west to where the Shinx is.
Go south to the dead end, and
you will spot the Cranidos and
Wartortle running around a tree.
Capture them and the quest will
be completed, plus you will now
have Cranidos join as a Partner
Pokémon!


========================
36. Please Save Shieldon
========================

Client: Boy (Union Road) Reward:
Shieldon (Partner Pokémon)
Description: That poor Shieldon
got stuck on Peril Cliffs while
trying to get
   down. Please, Ranger, you
   have to help that little
   Shieldon out!

After accepting the quest, head
to the Peril Cliffs. Climb your
way to the area with the high
vines and the Gligars floating
around. Climb to the top and
head eastward along the vines.
Look at the map and you will see
a small ledge below where you
are as you climb. Get above that
ledge, then drop onto it to
reach the Shieldon. Capture it,
and the quest will end with
yourself gaining another Partner
Pokémon!


========================
37. Please Save Chimchar
========================

Client: Explorer (Chroma Road)
Reward: Chimchar (Partner
Pokémon) Description: Near the
Chroma Ruins, there's this
Chimchar. It's tormented by
   these Beedrill that chase it
   around. Can you see about
   helping that Chimchar out?

Head to the Chroma Highlands,
and make your way to the area
leading up to the ruins. There,
you will spot the Chimchar being
cornered by two Beedrills.
Capture the Beedrills and
Chimchar, and the quest will
end. Of course, you will also
have a new Partner Pokémon as a
result!


=======================
38. Mischeivous Sneasel
=======================

Client: Mrs. Winter (Hia Valley)
Reward: Sneasel (Partner
Pokémon) Description: A Sneasel
is causing much mischief on the
second floor of Almia
   Castle. It's a nuisance.
   Please do something about
   this
      mischievous Sneasel.

After you accept the quest, head
to Almia Castle. Take the
eastern path from the main hall
and continue until you end up on
the second floor. Get across the
icy room, then in the next room
you will spot the Sneasel. It
will engage you in battle, so
capture it (be careful of the
ice chunks it forms on the
ground). After you finish the
capture, the quest will end and
Sneasel will become your new
Partner Pokémon!


================================
39. Snover's Mysterious Presence
================================

Client: Explorer (Boyle Volcano)
Reward: Snover (Partner Pokémon)
Description: It's hard to
believe, but I saw a Snover in
Volcano Cave, toward
   the east side. I don't think
   anyone can get to it on foot,
   but a Ranger can, right? It
   appeared to be suffering from
   the heat...

After accepting the quest from
the explorer, exit the cave and
go into the eastern entrance. As
soon as you enter, you will see
the Snover on the high ledge.
Capture a Torkoal and ride the
magma north and west into the
next area. Continue southward
into the following area, then
get onto dry land there. Follow
the path going southeast into
the next section, and you will
spot the Snover. Capture it and
your quest will be over, and you
will have another new Partner
Pokémon!


================================
40. Misdreavus Mischief Mystery!
================================

Client: Explorer (Chroma
Highlands) Reward: Misdreavus
(Partner Pokémon) Description:
I'm having a real problem with a
Misdreavus. It's been
   disturbing me while I'm
   exploring the many chambers
   in the Chroma Ruins. It likes
   to sneak up and startle me
   for fun. Can anyone help me
   with this?

For this quest, head into the
Chroma Ruins. As soon as you get
down there, go south and east
into the next room. At the next
intersection, go north into a
seemingly empty room. After you
step into the room, Misdreavus
will appear. Turn and face
southward and you will engage it
in battle. Capture it and the
quest will be over, and once
again you have a new Partner
Pokémon!


===========================
41. Pachirisu's Hide & Seek
===========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest. Your
first
 Partner Pokémon must NOT be
 Pachirisu.

Client: Ms. April (Ranger
School) Reward: Pachirisu
(Partner Pokémon) Description:
We've had a Pachirisu make its
home in the School recently.
It's
   been a handful, though. It
   chews up things, and it likes
   to hide things. I would like
   to see this Pachirisu
   captured. It should
 still be in the School itself.

After you accept the quest, you
will find a number of crates
scattered throughout the school.
Each can be broken with Crush 1
(the Bidoof in the main hall
will suffice). The real
Pachirisu is hidden in only one
crate; the other crates contain
plush dolls. To find the real
one, go to the second floor and
destroy the northwest crate.
Check the Pachirisu and capture
it when it charges at you, then
you will complete the quest and
earn a new Partner Pokémon!


===========================
42A. Things That Go Bump...
===========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest. Your
first
 Partner Pokémon must NOT be
 Munchlax.

Client: Little Sis (Chicole
Village) Reward: Munchlax
(Partner Pokémon) Description:
Huh? What's making all the noise
upstairs? What could it be? I'm
   scared... Please, go check
   upstairs!

When you get this quest, you
will be in your house in Chicole
Village. So, simply head
upstairs to your room. You will
spot the Munchlax wandering
around, and when you approach
it, it will engage you in
battle. Capture it and the quest
will end, plus you will obtain
Munchlax as a new Partner
Pokémon!


========================
42B. Starly Lost Its Way
========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest. Your
first
 Partner Pokémon must NOT be
 Starly.

Client: Explorer (Hippowdon
Temple) Reward: Starly (Partner
Pokémon) Description: A Starly
wandered into Hippowdon Temple.
It's gotten hopelessly
   lost somewhere deep in there,
   I think. It's also timid. It
   flees if it sees you coming.
   Please help this Starly!

For this quest, you have to find
the Starly inside the Hippowdon
Temple. Get to the room with the
arrows on the floor that move
you automatically when you step
on them. When you get to that
room, if you approach the
Starly, it will fly off to
another location within the
room. You will need to chase
Starly until it lands at a
location where some of those
arrows point right at it. Then,
ride those arrows so you catch
it off guard, and capture it.
Upon completion of the capture,
you will have a new Partner
Pokémon and the quest will be
complete!


=============================
43. What Happened to Machop!?
=============================

Client: Old Man (Ranger Union)
Reward: Machop (Partner Pokémon)
Description: There was a Machop
up on Peril Cliffs that was
training for
   something. It's disappeared!
   Maybe, just maybe, it could
   be in trouble. It could be
   trapped under a giant
   boulder! Go check on it,
   please!

For this quest, head to the
Peril Cliffs. Make your way
through the first few areas,
including the area where you
have to climb along the tall
cliff via the vines (be sure to
capture an Aerodactyl at this
point, too). When you reach the
next area, you will see a Machop
trapped behind a giant boulder.
Get down to that area and use
Aerodactyl's Crush 4 to destroy
the boulder. After that, capture
the Machop and it will become
your Partner Pokémon, and the
quest will end!


======================
44. Please Save Piplup
======================

Client: Research Team Member
(Hia Valley) Reward: Piplup
(Partner Pokémon) Description: A
while ago, I saw a Piplup being
chased around the snowy fields
   of Hia Valley by a Houndoom.
   A Ranger could save the
   little guy, yes?

For this quest, head to the
southwestern area of Hia Valley.
Follow the path to a dead end
and you will spot the Piplup
being chased around a tree by
the Houndoom. Capture them both
and the quest will end, and
Piplup will become your latest
Partner Pokémon!


=======================
45. Please Save Turtwig
=======================

Client: Little Boy (Chicole
Village) Reward: Turtwig
(Partner Pokémon) Description:
Hey, I went to Breeze Hill.
There was this Turtwig at the
edge
   of a cliff. It sure looked
   like it was in trouble. Go
   help that Turtwig.

For this quest, head to Breeze
Hill. When you get there, you
will see the Turtwig by the
cliff's edge. Capture it and the
quest will end, and the Turtwig
will become your new Partner
Pokémon!


===============================
46. Who Is on Hippowdon's Nose?
===============================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Little Boy (Haruba
Village) Reward: Hippopotas
(Partner Pokémon) Description: I
saw it! Something big and weird
squirming around on the nose
   of Hippowdon Temple! It
   could've been a Pokémon! Can
   you go look, Ranger?

After you get the quest, head
over to Hippowdon Temple. When
you approach the temple
entrance, you will see a
Hippopotas hanging off the high
ledge above. Enter the temple
and make your way through to the
area where you are outside
between the temple's nostrils.
Capture the Hippopotas to save
it, and the quest will end with
you obtaining a new Partner
Pokémon!


===================
47. Pelipper's Plea
===================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Old Woman (Boyleland)
Reward: Gible (Partner Pokémon)
Description: In Volcano Cave,
toward the doors, there was a
Pelipper. It
   seemed to be trying to say
   something. You may want to
   check on it.

Once you accept the quest, enter
the eastern entrance of the
Volcano Cave. You will spot the
Pelipper flying nearby, and then
it will fly off to the floor
above. Get across the magma with
the Torkoal, and use a Drifblim
to float upstairs as usual. When
you get there, the Pelipper will
lead you to the eastern area, so
follow it outside. There, it
will show you an injured Gible
sitting there. Capture it and
the quest will end, and Gible
will become your latest Partner
Pokémon!


====================
48. Under the Bridge
====================

Client: Little Girl (Chicole
Village) Reward: Water Defense 1
Description: Do you know the
bridge near the School? Well, I
heard strange
   cries from under it! It'd be
   awful if it were a ghost! Can
   a
     Ranger go investigate?

For this simple quest, head to
the bridge along School Road.
Once you get there, a Pokémon
will jump out from under the
bridge and run away. There is no
ghost, so the quest is complete.


================================
49. Strange Crates Washed Ashore
================================

Client: Boy (Vientown) Reward:
Normal Defense 1 Description:
Big wooden crates have been
washing ashore at Nabiki Beach
   lately. Can Rangers help do
   something about them if they
   find any on the beach?

Head over to Nabiki Beach and
you will find a wooden crate
washed up there. Use a Bidoof's
Tackle 1 to clear it, then you
will check a paper hidden under
it. After that, the boy will
appear and the quest will be
complete.


=====================
50. Go Talk to My Mom
=====================

Client: Brook (Altru Park)
Reward: Flying Defense 1
Description: Hey, while you're
out on patrol, can you drop in
on my dear old
   mom for a friendly visit? She
   could use the company. My
   house is in Pueltown. Look
   for the fountain in front,
   okay?

After you talk to Brook at his
post by the bridge, he will send
you to his mom's house. Head
into Pueltown and take the east
road to the next area. Go all
the way north to reach two
houses with a fountain in front
of them. Enter the house on the
right, which is Brook's mom's
house. Listen to her story, then
go outside to complete the
quest.


=============================
51. What Reporter Hans Forgot
=============================

Client: Dad (Chicole Village)
Reward: Psychic Defense 1
Description: A newspaper
reporter named Hans came by the
house earlier. He
   left his pen behind. I'd like
   you to to return it to him.
   He said he's going to Altru
   next for his story.

For this quest, head to Altru
Park. Take the northern path
towards the Altru Tower. When
you arrive, you will run into
the reporter Hans. Return his
pen, then go back to Dad to
complete the quest.


=========================
52. Bring Back the Oasis!
=========================

Client: Old Woman (Haruba
Village) Reward: Recovery B
Description: Please bring a
Pokémon that can summon rain.
And please keep it
   a secret from the children. I
   have heard rumors of a
   Pokémon that put out the
   terrible fire in Vien Forest
   by bringing about a downpour.

After you receive this quest,
head back to Vien Forest. Get to
the area where the Blastoise is
(it's by the dock just like
earlier in the game), and
capture it. Return to Habura
Village, and get to the
southeast section of town. Take
the steps to the upper area, and
walk around until a "?" appears.
Use Blastoise's Rain Dance
ability at that point, and the
rain will reform the oasis in
the village. After that's done,
the old woman will thank you and
the quest will be complete.


========================
53. Wish for Vien Forest
========================

NOTE: You must complete all 59
other quests to access this
quest.

Client: Ollie's Mom (Chicole
Village) Reward: Supreme Defense
Description: I was hoping that
you would have a word with my
son, who you
   know as Ollie. He's still
   torn up by guilt over what
   happened to Vien Forest... I
   think you can find him there
   now.

After accepting the quest, head
into Vien Forest. Make your way
to the area where the dock is,
and you will see Ollie. Talk to
him and he will mention that he
is searching for a Celebi.
Continue west and capture a
Floatzel, then make your way
south to the dock. Use the River
Flow 1 ability to ride the
stream all the way west and
north. Pass the first dock you
come to, and continue northward
to the very end. Get onto dry
land there, and the Celebi will
appear. Follow it into the next
area and it will move around the
circular area. Chase it with a
Doduo and try to stay out of the
tall grass so you move faster.
Watch its movement patterns and
catch up to it, then capture it.
Once you have it, you will
automatically return to Ollie,
and your final quest will end
with Celebi restoring the forest
to its original state!


========================
54. Secret Kept by Three
========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Principal Lamont (Ranger
School) Reward: Dragon Defense 2
Description: In all the world,
there is one secret that is
known to only the
   three of us. Find where that
   secret is hidden. Here's one
   hint: the Pledge Stone in
   Ascension Square.

For this quest, head over to
Ascension Square and check out
the Pledge Stone. It requires
Tackle 5 in order to move it,
and only one Pokémon in the game
has that ability: Rampardos.
Head to the Peril Cliffs and
capture it in the same location
where you caught it early in the
game, and use it to move the
Pledge Stone back. Enter the
room below and check the diary
on the table, and read through
many of its entries. After
Principal Lamont, Chairperson
Erma, and Professor Hastings
walk in, talk to them and the
quest will end.


=====================
55. Snow in Boyleland
=====================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest. You
must also complete "Team Dim
Sun's Appetite" and "Secure the
Hidden Harbor".

Client: Elder's Granddaughter
(Boyleland) Reward: Ice Defense
2 Description: Everyone is
looking forward to Boyleland's
Snow Festival, but we
   have no snow. Please bring us
   a Froslass and a Glalie. They
   say those Pokémon can be
   found in Hia Valley.

For this quest, you will need to
capture a Froslass and a Glalie.
Luckily for you, they are both
located in the same place: Almia
Castle. Once you find and
capture them both, return to
Boyleland and talk to the girl
inside the Elder's house
(southwest building). The
Pokémon you caught will make it
snow, and the quest will end
successfully.


==================
56. For Little Tim
==================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Big Bertha (Vientown)
Reward: Ground Defense 2
Description: You know how my
husband's deathly afraid of
Pokémon, don't you,
   dear? I want to cure him of
   that once and for all, so I'd
   like
  you to bring back a Slakoth.

For this quest, head over to the
area just beyond the gate to the
Ranger School. Capture a nearby
Budew and use its Tackle 1
ability on the Forest Tree. A
Slakoth will fall out, so
capture it easily. Bring it back
to Big Bertha and the quest will
be complete.


============================
57. Murph's Disappearing Act
============================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Pamur (Shiver Camp)
Reward: Steel Defense 2
Description: I woke up this
morning to find Murph missing! I
hate to impose,
   but please search for Murph.
   Come to think of it, he said
   he wanted to ask Mrs. Winter
   something yesterday.

After you accept this quest,
first head to Mrs. Winter's
cabin in the northwest area of
Hia Valley. Talk to Mrs. Winter,
then head to Almia Castle. Go
all the way through the castle
until you reach the room where
you found the Blue Gem earlier.
You will find Murph in there
this time. Talk to him and you
will all return to Pamur's dome
in the Shiver Camp, and the
quest will be complete.


=============================
58. Staraptor High in the Sky
=============================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Wendy (Ranger Union)
Reward: Latent Power B
Description: I think it will
lift my guy's spirits to see
wild Staraptor. It
   will inspire him to soar
   again, I'm sure of it.
   Please, can you bring back
   six Staraptor for the two of
   us?

For this quest, you are asked to
collect six Staraptors from
around the world and bring them
back to Wendy. This can be
easily accomplished by riding a
Doduo through the surrounding
areas and capturing the
Staraptors you come across, one
at a time. When you have six,
come back to Wendy to complete
the quest.


===========================
59. Gift of Music for Isaac
===========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Melody (Pueltown)
Reward: Long Line B Description:
I wrote a song as a present for
my brother. I want to play a
   concert with these Pokémon:
   Chatot, Kricketune,
   Chingling, and Jigglypuff!
   Please, will you bring them
   here, all at once?

As the quest description states,
you are sent to capture four
different Pokémon for Melody.
Chatot can be found in the
central area of Pueltown, so you
won't have to go far to find it.
Kricketune can be found in Vien
Forest, in the area you can
access by using Floatzel's River
Flow 1 ability. As for Chingling
and Jigglypuff, you will need to
explore the Crysta Cave. Once
you have all four Pokémon, talk
to Melody again to complete the
quest and enjoy the mini-recital
she performs with them.


========================
60. Ponte's Path to Take
========================

NOTE: You must complete the game
once to access this quest.

Client: Ponte (Chroma Highlands)
Reward: Rock Defense 2
Description: I'd like you to
bring back the Pokémon I want to
use as a model
   for my wood carving. I can
   see it now: a big, proud, red
   nose! An impressive
   moustache! One lives in the
   Chroma Ruins, I've heard.

For this quest, you will have to
go into the Chroma Ruins. To
prepare, you should bring a
Pokémon with the Psy Power 3
ability beforehand (Gengar and
Gardevoir, among others). When
you have one, go through the
ruins until you reach a large
underground room with many
passages and a Bastiodon in the
middle area. Capture a Drifblim
and use its Elevate ability in
the southeast ray of light, and
float to the room above. There,
use the Psy Power 3 ability to
open the sealed door, and enter
that room. Inside, capture the
Probopass. Bring it back to
Ponte in the building at the end
of the ruins to complete the
quest.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Capture Arena  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

============
Introduction
============

After you beat the game for the
first time, you will receive a
pass to enter the Capture Arena.
To access the Capture Arena
itself, you must first head to
Haruba Village. Get to the
southern end where you would
arrive by boat, and head east.
This time you will see a Wailord
waiting for you; choose to ride
it and it will bring you to the
Capture Arena, which is situated
on an island in the southwest
region of the map. Once you
arrive, go up the path and into
the next area, where you can
find a Staraptor if you want to
leave. Otherwise, enter the
arena building.

If this is your first time
visiting, you will find out
about the arena itself from the
receptionist. Basically, you go
from room to room, capturing the
Pokémon inside to advance
further. You can only bring your
current Partner Pokémon, so be
sure to plan ahead and bring the
most useful one for your style
of capturing. There are four
floors in the Capture Arena, and
a number of rooms on each floor.
When you first arrive in a
floor, you can only enter one
room, but if you complete the
open room, the next one will
open up. If all rooms on a floor
are cleared, the wall blocking
the way to the next floor will
be lowered.

When you enter a room, there
will be a number of elevators
which you can ride into a
smaller room below. In those
rooms, you will encounter a
Pokémon. Capture it, then you
will return to the first part of
the room above, and that
elevator will be sealed. Once
you capture all of the Pokémon
in those elevator rooms, the
northern door will open. In that
room, you will meet the room
boss; capture it to clear the
room. You can leave the room at
any time, but if you do, you
have to recapture everything
inside from scratch.

As a note, all of the Pokémon
you meet will have the same
exact moves and patterns as when
you met them during the main
game, so there are no surprises
here. One last hint: The Pokémon
you capture in the elevator
rooms, in addition to your
Partner Pokémon, will be useful
against the room's boss, so take
their Poké Assists into
consideration when battling!
Once you defeat a room's boss,
you will be back in that floor's
hallway and your HP will be
automatically refilled. If you
make it all the way through the
Capture Arena, you will receive
a medal, that's it.

As far as strategy is concerned
here, the single Pokémon battles
are pretty simple to get through
easily. These Pokémon will use
their strongest attacks more
often and will have a much
higher amount of HP to get
through. As for the boss
battles, the Poké Assists of the
Pokémon you caught in the areas
leading up to the room boss will
come in handy. It also helps a
lot to observe their patterns
and exploit any openings you
see; don't bother charging so
often because you will need to
be fast. Also, if multiple
Pokémon are in a cluster, take
advantage of filling their HP
meters simultaneously.

It is quite doable to complete
this Capture Arena without any
Poké Assists or advanced
strategies. It's just a matter
of knowing what each opponent
can throw at you ability-wise
and acting accordingly. If you
really want a more detailed
strategy, there is an in-depth
Arena FAQ on GameFAQs you can
visit.


===========
Battle List
===========

Floor 1
-------

Room 1: Gardevoir
  Toxicroak (Boss)

Room 2: Shiftry
  Spiritomb (Boss)

Room 3: Crobat (left room)
  Alakazam (right room)
  Lucario (Boss)

Room 4: Gabite (left room)
  Absol (right room)
  Heatran (Boss)

Room 5: Bellossom (left room)
  Gengar (middle room)
  Blaziken (right room)
  Cresselia (Boss)


Floor 2
-------

Room 1: Honchkrow (lower-left
room)
  Drifblim (lower-right room)
  Fearow (upper-left room)
   Swellow (upper-right room)
  Yanmega & Gliscor (Boss)

Room 2: Tyranitar (lower-left
room)
  Abomasnow (lower-right room)
  Kangaskhan (upper-left room)
   Aggron (upper-right room)
  Mamoswine & Rhyperior &
  Tangrowth (Boss)

Room 3: Vaporeon (lower-left
room)
   Flareon (lower-right room)
  Eevee (middle room)
   Jolteon (upper-left room)
   Espeon (upper-right room)
  Umbreon & Leafeon & Glaceon
  (Boss)

Room 4: Houndoom (lower-left
room)
  Garchomp (lower-right room)
  Banette (middle room)
   Ariados (upper-left room)
  Cacturne (upper-right room)
 Drapion & Weavile (x4) (Boss)


Floor 3
-------

Room 1: Magmortar & Electivire
(Boss)

Room 2: Torterra & Empoleon &
Infernape (Boss)


Floor 4
-------

Room 1: Charizard & Flygon &
Salamence (Boss)

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Ranger Net -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

============
Introduction
============

On the title screen where you
select your file, you can access
a mode known as Ranger Net. In
this mode, you connect via the
Nintendo WiFi service and can
download special/extra missions
to your game. These missions are
available only in certain
timeframes and depending on the
region you are located in, but
once you download them, you can
play them any time. There are
two categories: Special Missions
and Extra Missions. The Special
ones will allow you to obtain
certain Pokémon which you can
transfer to the Pokémon
Diamond/Pearl/Platinum games.
The Extra ones allow you to
battle/capture, as you expect,
extra Pokémon to further fill
your Browser.

Here is a quick list of the
Special/Extra Missions
available, as well as when they
were accessible. Please note
that I do NOT have walkthroughs
for these areas since I do not
have WiFi service, but if
someone is willing to provide me
with a good write-up, I will be
sure to add it and credit you!


================
Special Missions
================

1. Recover the Manaphy Egg
    Prize: Manaphy Egg
    Availability: 11/10/2008 -
    1/30/2009 (NA) All times
    (JP)

2. Rescue Kidnapped Riolu!
    Prize: Riolu (with Aura
    Sphere ability)
    Availability: 11/10/2008 -
    1/30/2009 (NA)
   3/20/2008 - 6/15/2008 (JP)

3. Liberate the Tower
    Prize: Darkrai (with Dark
    Void ability) Availability:
    11/10/2008 - 1/30/2009 (NA)
   3/20/2008 - 6/15/2008 (JP)


==============
Extra Missions
==============

1. Dialga in Hia Valley?
 Reward: Dialga data in Browser
    Availability: ??? (NA)
   6/16/2008 - 6/18/2008 (JP)

2. Palkia in Haruba Desert!?
 Reward: Palkia data in Browser
    Availability: ??? (NA)
   6/16/2008 - 6/18/2008 (JP)

3. For the Bride & Shaymin
Reward: Shaymin data in Browser
    Availability: ??? (NA)
   7/19/2008 - 8/31/2008 (JP)

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-= 10. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
   -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

===================
Capturing Regigigas
===================

In order to have the chance at
capturing Regigigas, you must
first complete your Browser by
capturing all 266 regular
Pokémon in the game. Once you do
that, head over to the Ranger
Union and you will be told of a
whirlpool that formed in the
Hippowdon Temple. Before you go
there, make sure you have
Regice, Regirock, and Registeel
with you, so if you released
them, go back and capture them
again. Also, be sure to bring a
few Magnetons with you, as well
as a couple of Ground-type
Pokémon (you'll see why
shortly). In the temple, get to
the room with the arrows, and
make your way to the whirlpool
in the center of the room. Fall
into it, then place Regice,
Regirock, and Registeel on the
three pedestals to open the way
forward. When you're ready, go
ahead and you will engage
Regigigas in battle.

This is by far the hardest
battle you will undertake in
this game! With every step
Regigigas takes, shock waves
will be emitted, causing 18 HP
of damage if you get hit by
them. It periodically stops to
do one of several attacks (four
rocks in the corners, a powerful
beam attack, a strong/large
punch, an earthquake in the X
pattern, or cause boulders to
fall from above). You MUST be
patient when taking on this
battle, or else you will die
very quickly. A good approach
would be to charge up from a
distance, then when Regigigas
stops for a moment (with no "!"
appearing), quickly draw a bunch
of circles before it starts
moving. You can draw them as it
moves too, but it is much more
dangerous to do so. Late in the
battle, boulders will fall from
above more frequently, so watch
out for those as well.

If you brought Ground Pokémon,
you can use their Poké Assists
to deal damage and temporarily
stop Regigigas' attacks. If you
run below about 30 HP, do not be
afraid to use a Magneton's
ability to recover! It will take
a long time, but as always, if
you are persistent and patient,
you will succeed. Upon
completion of the capture, your
Browser will be totally
complete, and you will return to
the Ranger Union to celebrate.
At that point, congratulations
on capturing every Pokémon!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  11. Credits -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Oxbridge: For providing me with
the in-game description for the
"Starly Lost Its Way" Quest.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  12. Copyright Notice  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2009
Devin Morgan. All rights
reserved. Please view the
following URL to see the list of
sites that are allowed to post
my work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/
allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites
I know and trust well. If your
site is not on the
aforementioned list, you are
currently not allowed to post
any of my files on your site.
Please respect my work and do
not steal it or post it without
my permission. I only want my
most recent work to be available
and I do not feel that can be
achieved if others take from me
without my knowledge or
permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for
this game as well, and would
like to use some information,
credit me for what you use.
Please do not rip me off, as
that is blatant plagiarism and
such will not be tolerated.

If you wish to contact me, do so
at dbmfaqs(at)gmail(dot)com.
Please only contact me if there
are corrections to be made to
information that's currently
included. Thanks!

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features
/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=