"Pokemon Ranger" for Nintendo DS
FAQ/Walkthrough By Mykas0
version 1.61 11-6-2007

BE SURE TO READ THIS FIRST PART!
You can read this faq as long as
you don't change ANY part of it
(including this small
introduction). Also, you can
print it but only for use at
your home, you may NEVER sell
this stuff or else you will make
me really mad and maybe I won't
work anymore! Finally, if you
want to use this faq on your
site you have to mail me and ask
me for it, I will almost surely
grant it to you!


While I may not be a very huge
fan of the Pokemon series (in
fact, I hardly know their names,
after the first 151), I had some
free time and I decided to write
this guide. It may not be the
best one around, but it will
surely help players with this
game. Also, I wanted to give a
huge thanks to guys back at
http://www.serebii.net , their
website is great and some of
their information was used (with
permission) to fully complete
this guide, and without their
help this wouldn't have been
possible. Also, the entire
website is a great resource for
Pokemon information, so be sure
to pay them a visit, ok? Also, I
am currently accepting
donations. In case you liked
this guide and you feel like
contributing for my future work
(even a $5 online gift
certificate is just great!),
please contact me to the mail
stated at the end of this guide.
Now, please continue reading and
I hope you enjoy doing so as
much as I did writing it.



0~. Version History
    0.1~. Notes for the American
      Version
--------------------------------
1~. Controls
    1.1~. Menus
    1.2~. Initial Notes
    1.3~. Pokemon Type
    1.4~. Mini-games
2~. Walkthrough
    2.1~. Ring Town
    2.2~. Your first mission
    2.3~. Ring Town
    2.4~. Mission 1
    2.5~. Fall City
    2.6~. Mission 2
    2.7~. Fall City
    2.8~. Mission 3
    2.9~. Fall City
    2.10~. Summer Town
    2.11~. Mission 4
    2.12~. Summer Town
    2.13~. Fall City
    2.14~. Mission 5
    2.15~. Ring Town
    2.16~. Mission 6
    2.17~. Ring Town
    2.18~. Summer Town
    2.19~. New mission
    2.20~. Yet another mission
    2.21~. Summer Town
    2.22~. Fall City
    2.23~. Mission 7
    2.24~. Fall City
    2.25~. Summer Town
    2.26~. Another mission
    2.27~. Summer Town
    2.28~. Mission 8
    2.29~. Win Town
    2.30~. Mission 9
    2.31~. Win Town
    2.32~. Mission 10
3~. What now?
    3.1~. Fall City
    3.2~. Extra Mission 1
    3.3~. Fall City
    3.4~. Ring Town
    3.5~. Summer Town
    3.6~. Extra Mission 2
    3.7~. Summer Town
    3.8~. Win Town
    3.9~. Extra Mission 3
    3.10~. Win Town
    3.11~. Special Missions
  3.11.1~. Special Mission 1
       (Deoxys)
  3.11.2~. Special Mission 2
       (Celebi)
3.11.3~. Special Mission 3 (Mew)
  3.11.4~. Special Mission 4
       (Manaphy's Egg)
4~. Acquirable Pokemon and their
moves 5~. Frequently Asked
Questions
--------------------------------
ST~. Special Thanks
EN~. Contacts




0~. Version History

-> version 1.61 <-
- Fixed an important typo.

-> version 1.6 <-
- Added more information on the
  Manaphy mission for European
  users;
-- Fixed some minor problems;
--- Added one more question to
    the FAQ.

-> version 1.5 <-
- Fixed the location where you
  can find Machamp;
-- Fixed Porygon's location;
--- Fixed some minor typos.

-> version 1.4 <-
- Added information on the
  "Manaphy Egg"'s quest;
-- Added one more question to
   the FAQ.

-> version 1.3 <-
- Added a lot more information
  on the American version of the
  game;
-- Fixed many mistakes in the
   guide.

-> version 1.2 <-
- Fixed some minor typos;
-- Added a more proper answer to
   a certain question of the
   FAQ.

-> version 1.1 <-
- Added some more information on
  extra Pokemon, and the way to
  unlock them in the American
  version of the game;
-- Added some misc notes about
   the American version of the
   game;
--- Added information about the
    way to capture Deoxys, Mew
    and Celebi in the non-
    Japanese version of the
    game.

-> version 1.0 <-
- Added ALL pokemon to
  "Acquirable Pokemon and their
  moves";
-- Fixed some erroneous
   information in that same
   section;
--- Added more questions to
    "Frequently Asked
    Questions";
---- Updated most of the
     sections.

-> version 0.8 <-
- Added some more pokemon to
  "Acquirable Pokemon and their
  moves";
-- Completed the "Mini-games"
   section.

-> version 0.7 <-
- Corrected a mistake on how
  much HP "Charge x2" increased;
-- Fully completed the "What
   now?" section;
--- Added some more "Frequently
    Asked Questions".

-> version 0.6 <-
- Added some information to most
  of the sections;
-- Checked most of the guide for
   errors.

-> version 0.5 <-
- Completed the "Walkthrough"
  section.

-> version 0.4 <-
- Completed the "Walkthrough" up
  to mission number 9.

-> version 0.3 <-
- Completed the "Walkthrough" up
  to the mission inside the
  pyramid.

-> version 0.2 <-
- Completed the "Walkthrough" up
  to mission number 6.

-> version 0.1 <-
- Started the main guide;
-- Added some information to
   almost all the sections.



0.1~. Notes for the American
  Version

As you may suppose, most of the
information available in this
guide was first created for the
Japanese version of the game.
While I doubt that many
important things have changed,
the way to acquire Mew, Deoxys
and Celebi has slightly changed,
mostly because most outsiders
could have problems trying to go
to one of the events where you
could acquire such Pokemons. As
you may suppose, I won't buy the
American version (however, I
accept donations! :P) and
therefore I can't state much
about the new functions, so such
information comes from
contributors who mailed me, and
I have no way to check if they
are true or not. So, in case you
find something horrible (or just
innacurate) in those parts of
the guide, or if you feel the
need to add some kind of
information to this guide,
please mail me about it. A
certain user, credited as Louis,
mailed me some information on
what was changed to this
American version of the game,
and while I can't substitute
them in the actual guide (it
would not only take a long time,
but also stop covering the
original japanese title), you
can read about them in the
following lines.

- The menu now features
  "Release" (instead of
  "Pokemon"), "Glossary"
  (instead of "Tutorials") and
  Browser (instead of
  "Encyclopedia");

- "Medals" are now called
  "Ranks";

- "Paralyze", the special attack
  that only Plusle and Minun
  have, was now
   renamed to "Discharge";

- The "older guy" is actually
  called "Professor Hastings";

- "Team Go-go" is now called
  "Go-rock Squad";

- "Forest" is now called "Lyra
  Forest";

- "Tunnel" is now called "Krokka
  Tunnel";

- "Jungle" is now called "Olive
  Jungle";

- "Temple" is now called "Fiore
  Temple";

- "Cave" is now called "Panula
  Cave";

- "Mountain Range" is now called
  "Sekra Range";

- "Factory" is now called "Dusk
  Factory".



1~. Controls

While controls for most handheld
gaming systems are usually quite
easy to master, I can't say the
same thing about the ones in
this console. I will try to
provide as much information
about them as possible, and I
hope you find it easy to
comprehend.

UP - moves the character up,
moves up on menus DOWN - moves
the character down, moves down
on menus LEFT - moves the
character left, moves to the
left on menus RIGHT - moves the
character right, moves to the
right on menus A - interact with
someone, selects YES in binary
options B - exits in a menu,
selects NO in binary options X -
in the field, selects all your
pokemon Y - in the field,
selects all your pokemon L -
isn't used R - isn't used START
- summons (and makes it
disapper) the menu, while in the
field SELECT - isn't used

Now, the main problem (and yet,
one of the most important
features) in this game turns out
being the lower, tactile, screen
of this game. You will obviously
need to use it several times
during your adventure, and while
few of the functions are
available initially, others will
also be unlocked automatically,
as you advance further in the
game. So, eventually you will
discover that the lower screen
of the console can be used to:

- Move your character (you
  simply need to have your
  stylus pointed at the
  direction you wish to take)
  and talk to other characters
  (simply tap them with your
  stylus).

In battles, you can use it to:

- Draw closed lines around your
  opponent, which makes it HP go
  down by 1. Keep on doing it
  until the HP is below 1, in
  order to gain extra EXP points
  after the end of the battle.
  Do you see the green/red
  numbers? Those are the points
  you will win after the battle;

- Tap the blue area on the lower
  right corner, to make one of
  your current pokemons usable
  in the battle. Their effects
  largely depend on what pokemon
  you select, but such thematic
  will be further developed in
  the "Pokemon Type" section of
  this guide;

- By "capturing" a Pokemon when
  its HP isn't below 1, you'll
  see a blue area appearing on
  the lower left corner of the
  screen. Such option will only
  be available sometimes and it
  allows you to run away from
  your current battle, something
  that you should use if you are
  into trouble.

That's basically it, for this
section...



1.1~. Menus

When you first start the game,
you will see two options, they
are:

New Game
Options

Well, all of those are quite
understandable... in case you
are wondering about the
"Options" menu, it only contain
two options, the first one being
something I don't fully
understand and the second one
simply allowing you to change
the background image some of the
menus. However, after first
saving your game, the layout
will be changed to the following
one:

Continue
New Game
Options

Easy, hum? Well, there is simply
another menu requiring
explanation in this game, and
that turns out being menu that
will appear after pressing
START. However, don't forget
that such menu will only appear
after a certain part of the
game, slightly before getting
your first mission. That menu
will usually ook like this (and
no, this isn't an accurate
translation, it's just my
interpretation of it), but in
case you aren't in the middle of
a mission, its layout will
slightly change:

    Pokemon
Mission Tutorials Map
Encyclopedia Options Quick Save
    Exit

"Pokemon" is the place where you
can head to check information
about those pokemon that you
have currently in your party.

"Mission" generally allows you
to check the information about
the mission you are currently
playing. Obviously, in case you
aren't in the middle of a
mission, this option won't be
seen in the menu.

"Tutorials" allows you to check
several information about the
gameplay of this game, teaching
you about something you may not
know. When you haven't read
something yet, it will display a
symbol stating the you haven't
read it yet. You DON'T have to
read them all and there's NO
prize for doing so, but it is
always a good idea to check it,
in case you have any questions.

"Map" is one of those obvious
options, where you can simply
check the world MAP.

"Encyclopedia" can be considered
as this game's Pokedex, allowing
you to check the information on
all the pokemon that you've
already seen or captured in the
game.

"Options", in this menu, has
exactly the same layout as the
other mini-menu I've stated
before. Therefore, I don't think
you will have any trouble with
it.

"Quick Save" is the option you
should use if you are in the
field and you need to quickly
leave the game, in order to do
anything else. Be aware that
this only allows you to restart
the game ONCE from that
particular point, and then it
will erase the point where you
quick saved it.

"Exit", well... it exits this
menu.

This is all for this section, I
guess.



1.2~. Initial Notes

In this section, you will be
able to read about some of the
things you should know BEFORE
starting to play the game. While
they may spoil a very limited
amount of the gameplay, it is in
your best interest to
acknowledge them as soon as
possible.

- As stated before, after
  dropping a pokemon's HP to
  below 1, you can usually still
  give it a few extra rounds, to
  max out the EXP you win. This
  way, you can get more EXP and
  still face the exact same
  amount of enemies;

- More EXP means more levels,
  and more levels mean more HP
  for you;

- Shortly after starting to
  play, your character will gain
  his first special bar.
  However, when you gain your
  3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th medals,
  you will also receive a new
  special bar. Since more
  special bars mean that your
  main pokemon will be able to
  use a stronger paralyzing
  attack, you could consider
  them to be quite important;

- When acquiring your 4th, 7th
  and 10th medals, you will be
  able to increase the number of
  pokemon you can carry with you
  at any time, from the initial
  value of 4 up to a maximum of
  7, after getting your 10th
  medal;

- Like what happens in the
  classical pokemon games, in
  here you could also find
  "capturing all Pokemon" to be
  an interesting sidequest.
  Therefore, each time you see a
  unique pokemon in front of
  you, you should give
  everything you've got to
  capture it, EVEN if I have no
  mention to such pokemon in the
  guide;

- Save a lot and save often, as
  you don't want to have to
  replay a certain mission all
  over again, do you? Therefore,
  EVERY time you see a save
  point, be sure to use it, even
  if that isn't stated in this
  guide.

That's all for now, I guess...



1.3~. Pokemon Type

First, I must tell you that in
this game, the Pokemon are
usable inside and outside of the
battles. In the field, you can
generally use them to help you
in several tasks, like removing
natural barriers. While there
are more than 200 Pokemon in the
game, the abilities that you can
use in the field are kinda
limited, and they include:

- Break - destroys something,
  like a huge rock.

- Burn - burns something down,
  like a tree or a huge ice
  block.

- Charge - restores your life.

- Cross - allows your characters
  to be taken to another place,
  by using this ability on
  something they can grab.

- Cut - simply cuts something in
  front of you, like a fence or
  a bush.

- Flash - lights up an area.

- Gust - creates a windy attack
  that can lift stuff off the
  floor.

- Tackle - pushes something, as
  a box or a tree.

- Water - throws some water,
  which can be used for tasks
  such as extinguishing
  something that is on fire or
  very hot.

Besides "Flash" (an ability that
only Staryu can use), all the
other ones come in 3 different
strenghts, like the normal one,
"x2" and "x3". While an ability
of "x3" can remove a "x2" (or
lower) barrier, the opposite
can't occur. Also, in the case
of "Charge", the normal ability
restores 5 HP, the "x2" version
restores 15 HP and finally the
"x3" one fully restores your HP.

This is all for the field
abilities, but the game also
contains battle ones. With an
higher number than the ones
specified above, these can be
used by simply calling a pokemon
to the battle which can use an
ability of such type, as shown
in the section "Acquirable
Pokemon and their moves" of this
guide. They include:

- Bug - entraps your opponent
  inside the lines you created.

- Dark - decreases your current
  HP BUT makes your stylus' line
  longer.

- Electric - simply restores
  your HP.

- Fighting - Each time you do a
  full closed line, opponent's
  HP is halved
   by 2 points, instead of the
   usual 1.

- Fire - when you complete a
  full line around an opponent,
  this causes massive explosions
  in the inside of that area,
  usually preventing the
  opponent from attacking.

- Flying - throws gusts, which
  may lift opponent's from the
  ground for a while.

- Ghost - when you complete a
  full closed line, ghosts
  appear and stun the opponents
  inside the circle, making them
  stop whatever they were going
  to do.

- Grass - this attack allows you
  to create a grass barrier
  around your opponent.

- Ground - breaks the ground,
  stopping your enemies from
  crossing that
 particular place for a while.

- Ice - creates ice areas that
  can freeze the opponent, if he
  runs into them.

- Paralyze - this electrical
  attack stuns the opponent for
  as much time as
   the number of special bars
   that were currently filled.

- Poison - poisons your enemy,
  making it weaker.

- Psychic - stuns your opponent
  for a while, taking it off the
  floor.

- Rock - causes sandstorms.

- Water - allows you to create
  bubbles that can imprison your
  enemies inside, with the time
  being defined only by the size
  of the bubble you created.

Some of these functions are
instantly used (like the Psychic
or Electric ones), but others
will last for some time, like
the Fire or Grass ones, with the
time being awarded simply having
the strenght of that pokemon in
mind.

And that's all for this
section...



1.4~. Mini-games

While most of the events in this
story are pretty linear, the
game also seems to contain some
small 3 areas where you will
need to play a slightly
different adventure. Those are
not very hard, but turn your
task of capturing all the
Pokemon into something slightly
harder than what you will
usually find in the game.

The "Ring Town mini-game" and
the "Summer Town mini-game" are
easily acessible by talking to
the proper person, when all to
the right of the upper exit (for
the Ring Town one) and to the
immediate left of the Lapras
(for the Summer Town one), and
you will need to hang on top of
the provided Pokemon (either a
Doduo or a Lapras, depending on
the game) and try to capture as
many pokemon as possible in a
3-minute time. Rarer pokemon
give you more points, and there
sure are a lot of those for you
to find in each of the two areas
stated above. Be aware that some
of them are really hard to find
and may only be available
sometimes, so it may turn out
being indeed very hard to
capture a particular pokemon,
even if you know where to find
them. As an added note, the
biggest difference between these
2 mini-games is that in the
Summer Town one you can't see
most of your enemies, as they
will be appearing below the
water.

The "Fall City mini-game" seems
to be only available after
completing the main storyline
once, and available by taking
the left path on the upper area
of the stated city, you will
find an arena in there. Inside
that one, you should talk to the
woman at the counter and she
will make you enter a
tournament, where pokemon will
usually be falling from the sky
and you need to capture them, in
order to win points and more
capture time. You must be aware
that circling them more times
than required increases the time
that you have for capturing more
pokemon, while capturing more
than a pokemon at the same time
will greatly increase the number
of points you get from them, and
that sure is important. In case
you are wondering, the main
target is surpassing the 50000
points area, which turns being
quite hard.

That's all for this section,
too...



2~. Walkthrough

I have to start by saying that
while some people may have
desired it, this walkthrough
will simply tell you what do you
need to do in each mission and
how to perform it, I will not be
spending my time trying to
provide a lot of unuseful
information or stating stuff as
"give to steps to the left and
then turn three steps to the
right". Therefore, I will only
provide information that I think
to be valuable and which can
indeed matter to a random person
who is playing this game. Now,
on to the walkthrough itself...

In the first screen, you need to
start by tapping the lower
screen of the console with your
stylus, or press any button at
all. In the menu showing up
next, press the first option
("New Game"), and you will be
seeing the first scenes of this
interesting game. When the text
in the letter is simply going
around the screen, you can press
the lower screen with your
stylus in order to make it go
faster, and eventually you will
reach the place where you get to
pick your character, which you
should do by tapping him/her
with your stylus. In case you
are wondering, the only
difference between the two of
them is the pokemon that will be
following your character during
the game, Minun for the guy and
Plusle for the girl.

Pick anyone you want, and then
you will see a cutscene allowing
the game to finally start. (In
case you are wondering, A or
tapping the lower screen makes
the text advance) When you
finally get to control the
character you picked, move it up
on the stairs and you'll see
another cutscene. After its end,
move up to the bridge on the
upper side of this area and
you'll see a moving box,
interact with it and a pokemon
will jump out of it. Now, go to
the building on the left and
talk to the woman in the
counter. You should head up the
bridge once more, which will
unfold a new cutscene.

You will see the pokemon that
jumped from the box being
attacked by a Houndoom, besides
seeing a tutorial battle, which
you don't even have to control.
The data involved in such battle
is already explained in the
"Controls" section of this
guide, and you should fight the
other Pokemon. More cutscenes,
and you'll be asked to rename
your character. Eventually a
Fearow will appear, and he will
take you to another town.



2.1~. Ring Town

After a long cutscene, you will
hear about the news and
eventually you will need to
press START, in order to open
the menu for the first time.
Some more story will be seen,
you'll hear about the save
points and all that, which you
should instantly use and use
EVERY time you see one of them,
or else you may become
frustrated after losing an
important battle and having to
start a whole section all over
again. When possible, leave this
building and head to the upper
part of town, leaving it in
order to spot another cutscene,
which will lead to the first
mission you will ever face.



2.2~. Your first mission

After a long conversation, there
are some pokemon to capture
around here. Capture them all,
and eventually you will see a
Taillow hanging around, which
you should capture. After doing
so, go back to the main entrance
and the Taillow will be given to
his rightful owner. You will
then see some trees one fire,
which you should extinguish. In
order to do so, you need to
capture a water pokemon (there
are some elements of the Mudkip
species around) and use him to
extinguish the fire, as seen in
the small tutorial you get to
see. After doing so, your Mudkip
will run away (in this game, the
pokemon always run away after
completing their task) and your
mission will be over.



2.3~. Ring Town

After the chat sequence, and
when possible, leave that
building and you will see
another scene with the same man
from before. Your pokemon (which
one it is depends only on your
initial choice for a character)
will stun the Taillow and you
can then easily capture it.
Soon, you will get your first
special bar, which allows your
own pokemon (well, the only one
that will always be following
you) to use his electrical
attack in the middle of the
battles.

Now, you should go back to the
building and you'll see a new
tutorial. Then, an older guy
will appear and eventually you
will be able to control your
character once again. Talk to
the older guy once, and then
take the elevator in the left to
go up. Talk to everyone in there
and then head back to the floor
below, and when talking to the
older guy once more, a new
sequence will unfold and you
will (finally) be getting a new
mission. Go all the way up, to
exit this town, and then you
will be starting that mission.



2.4~. Mission 1

A Bellsprout will jump out of
the bushes, and you should
obviously capture it. Another
tutorial scene will appear and
when you're done, head to the
upper section of this area. Yet
another tutorial scene, and then
you can proceed. Be sure to
capture the Torchic on the left,
as you will be needing him. Head
to the right side, and use the
Torchic on the pieces blocking
your path. Later, be also sure
to capture the Pichu nearby, as
he can heal you. Continue
following the path until you
find a huge piece of wood
blocking you. Go slightly back,
and a Combusken will jump out of
the bushes. While you can easily
capture him, using a Mudkip to
aid you is probably also a good
idea. Use the Combusken to
remove the wood and continue
following that path until you
can enter a cave.

Around here, you can find a
strange area where all the
Magikarps are jumping OUTSIDE OF
THE WATER (cool, a water pokemon
that doesn't need water, what's
next?), but you can't go there
yet. Therefore, keep on
following the only possible path
and eventually some rocks will
fall, blocking your path.
Capture the Paras and use him to
get rid of the wood fence
nearby. You can't remove the
huge rocks *yet*, so... don't
worry about it, just follow the
only possible path and you will
eventually see some thugs from
your yet-to-be enemy, Team GoGo.
Proceed to the right and head to
the outside of the cave and
you'll see a Rhydon, which you
should also capture. He isn't
even very strong, but after the
battle he will go away and you
should go to the right. For the
first time ever, you will be
asked if you REALLY want to
leave an area... in case you do,
all the pokemon you captured
will currently go away, except
for (obviously) the main one.

In this new town, simply move to
the new headquarters and this
mission will be over.



2.5~. Fall City

A new character will appear and
you will be given a new medal.
You can't exit this building
yet, so be sure to talk to
everyone and eventually a woman
will enter, leading to a scene
where you will be given a new
mission for you to play.



2.6~. Mission 2

Go to the right and you'll see a
new sequence. Go all to the
right and that woman will once
again be seen. Enter the
building and she will have a
large box in front of her door,
so you should go outside and
capture a Makuhita. Use it to
get rid of the box and defeat
the Venonat inside.

After doing so, head to the
outside of the building and to
the left, where another woman
will ask you to find her Skitty
pokemons. You can find them in
the following places:
- the top floor of the building
  you just visited.
- behind a wooden fence, on the
  central area of this city. He
  will run away, but you can
  easily get him later, by
  checking the behind of one of
  the trees.
- near the fountain, on the
  central area of this city.
- on the right trash can, on the
  central area of this city.
- On the upper left house, on
  the upper area of this city,
  hidden in the middle of some
  plushies.
When you give the 5th to the
woman, she will go away and take
them all. Obviously, it is
impossible to currently have 5
of these on your party, so
whenever you feel like it, you
should go back to the woman and
she will take the number of
Skitty pokemons you currently
have. Several trips to her will
do the trick, but you should now
head to the right and another
new woman will be seen. Follow
her up to her house and you will
notice her basement to be all
dark and stuff like that.

Now, you have to go the the
south area of this city and go
down, to the sewers. Yes, the
place which was previously
covered by a Snorlax, in case
you noticed it. He won't be
there anymore, but you can go
down the ladder and get a Staryu
in there. Take him back to the
woman's basement and use its
power to lighten everything up.

Exit the house, go all to the
right and a woman will talk to
you, but you will also see a
pokemon attacking the clock
tower. I advise you to save your
game before confronting it, but
it's really up to you. A nice
option for this battle is
stunning the enemy with the
usual electrical shock from your
main pokemon, but it is really
up to you.

After that, the mission will end
and you will be back to the
headquarters.



2.7~. Fall City

After the previous mission, you
will not only get a new medal
but also an upgrade to the
special bar. Yeah, the one used
to thundershock people! But
anyway, you should continue
seeing the story, and eventually
you will get another new
mission. Exit this building and
you will instantly know where
you need to go next. Head there,
go down the ladder and a new
mission will start.



2.8~. Mission 3

Start by simply following the
only path available, until you
find a man, where you should
start going down. Eventually you
will see some green ooze in the
floor, head to the greatest
concentration of it and you will
fight a Grimer which, when
defeated, will make all the
green ooze disappear in that
spot.

Another cutscene, keep on going
to the right and you'll see some
more new Pokemon, continue
always going down (even when you
see a small bridge leading to
the right) and you'll eventually
find another green ooze place,
this time with 2 Grimer in it,
which you should obviously
defeat. Continue going and down
on the ladder, when possible.

In that new room, you will see
some Koffing and you can go all
to the right, being specially
careful not to fall in this
room's holes, or you will need
to start this room over (and
yeah, below the room you're
currently in, there's a whole
lot of Koffing). These pokemon
seem to be able to poison you,
but besides moving at 1 step per
second, that's not much to worry
about. Well, in the right side
of that room, go up the ladder
and you'll find a new area with
a single Raticate. After
acquiring him, go back to the
place with that small bridge and
go up after crossing the bridge,
using the Raticate to get rid of
the fence which was previously
blocking your path. Continue
going up and enter a new area,
but be careful as some Croconaw
may randomly jump out of the
water in here. Having that in
mind, just follow the unique
path until you see another green
ooze area with another 2 Grimer
in there, both of which you
should (as usual) defeat.

After doing so, continue to the
right and follow that path until
you get to see 2 giant water
tubes. Take the one in the right
and down the ladder, follow the
path to the right and up the
ladders, down on the water tube
and you'll see a save point.
Proceed to the left and all the
way up, past the bridge and on
to 3 other Grimer. In case you
have a Drowzee (which could be
previously seen in this level),
you can use it here in order to
paralyze your foes for a bit and
quickly capture them. Also, in
case you are wondering, you can
go exactly to the right after
the bridge, as there is a
Drowzee in there! ;)

Well, after defeating the 3
Grimer, head to the left and
you'll see a new cutscene. You
need to go that way, but how?
It's rather simple, go up and be
sure to capture the Tangela.
Later, use his power in the pin
on the other side, and you'll be
taken there. Now, you can go up
and get a Meditite, go back all
the way down (by taking the
right side of the water path)
and all to the right, where a
Drowzee previously was. Use the
Meditite to break the wall, and
enter the newly open hole. In
there, you will find both an
Oddish and a Magneton. Now, make
once again your way to the
outside of this small cave, get
the Tangela and advance to the
left once again. Enter the water
tube on the left and follow it
to another new room. Take the
tube in the left, and all the
way down for another Raticate.
Back to the tube, go all the way
up (to the room in which you
just came from) and use the
Raticate to get rid of the fence
exactly to your left. Check
around this platform and a rare
pokemon will appear in the area,
which you should try to capture,
a Crawdaunt.

Back to the tube, take the first
left and head down (the upper
exit is closed for good), to a
place with a save point and some
green ooze in the left. Defeat
the 3 Grimer (once again, I used
the aid of a Drowzee, you can
also do it, if you like), save
your game and then continue to
the left side, following the
path and seeing a Muk with 2
Grimer, later on. Get the
Drowzee on your way there and
try to defeat them. You should
start by using the Drowzee's aid
to quickly get rid of the 2
Grimer, and then use your
partner to stun the Muk enough
time to quickly capture him.

After doing that, your mission
will be taken to the
headquarters, once again.



2.9~. Fall City

New medal, you will also earn
the opportunity to take one more
pokemon with you (before, you
could only have 4, but now you
can finally take 5) and seen
more of the storyline. When it
ends, exit this building and go
all the way down, to the south
part of the city. Search in
until you see a new cutscene
(with 2 Krabby attacking a
Lapras), and then defeat the 2
Krabby to continue.

You will get Lapras' data and
you should then talk to him, in
order to be taken to a new city.



2.10~. Summer Town

Start by finding this city's
headquarter and enter it. After
the conversation, talk to the
guy who is alone and more
conversation will unfold. When
it ends, go to the outside and
you will have a new mission to
play. Follow the path to this
city's upper exit and you will
face your forth mission.



2.11~. Mission 4

Go up on the green herbs stuck
on the cliff and you'll get to
see you real enemies (or maybe
not, it's up to you to find
out...) for your first time, in
an always amusing sequence. When
they leave, go to the left side
and you have an easy battle
against 3 Wurmple.

Proceed by taking the only
possible path, you'll see a
short cutscene and eventually
you will reach a battle against
2 Ekans. In order to have an
easier time defeating them, you
can try to stun them and then
quickly capture one, as they
usually seem to tackle you when
you are least expecting it.

After the battle, go all the way
up but be aware of the falling
pokemon (usually, members of the
Spinarak species) until you
reach the next area, which may
be considered as slightly
calmer. When going to the right
side of this area, you will see
another cutscene, so you should
go up (using the place of the
mountain which you can climb)
and capture the Heracross and
the other pokemon which is
nearby it. Now, head back to the
place where the guy in the
cutscene was, and use the
Heracross to throw the tree
down. Be sure to capture a Lotad
in the water nearby, as you
should use it in the upper right
corner to allow an herb to grow
up. Follow it up and you will
fight a rare pokemon, Grovyle.
You can then use it in the bush
nearby, to unlock a new area
where 2 Lombre will be seen.
After capturing them, go back to
the main area (the one where you
cut the bush, in case you aren't
understanding me) and exit to
the lower right corner.

After a small cutscene, you will
have to fight against 2 Mankey
and a single Primeape. You can
start by stunning them all with
the electrical attack and then
quickly capture the Mankey.
Then, in an odd move, you can
even start by summoning one of
them right away, in order to
quickly capture the Primeape. Go
back to the previous area and
exit the path seen all the way
up, not before seeing a
cutscene. In order to get rid of
the fence, get one of the
pokemon nearby (I got the
Grovyle for this task) and get
rid of it.

Another battle, which you should
quickly use to capture the small
ones and then use the Primeape
to help you capture the flying
Beautifly. The enemy will run
away, but you should continue
going up until you reach the top
of this small mountain, where
another cutscene will be seen.
You should then enter the top of
the pyramid, where you will have
to face a Politoed, which can be
easily captured by using the
electrical attack to stun him.

After this easy battle, leave
the pyramid and you will see one
of your enemies, who will leave
without a fight. Go all the way
down, a Politoed and another guy
(yes, the one which you
abandoned at the begining of
this mission) will be back and
the mission will be over.



2.12~. Summer Town

Another medal and yet another
special bar will be granted to
the character you are
controlling. After all the chat,
you will be able to move him
once again, so you should go
back to the Lapras, who will
take you back to Fall City.


2.13~. Fall City

Move to the left, and you'll see
a new cutscene with your boss.
When he finally stops talking
and goes away, you should go to
the headquarters, which will
grant you another conversation
and a new mission.

After that, simply leave the
building and take the road to
the left, which will start your
fifth mission.



2.14~. Mission 5

Go the left and enter the cave.
Follow the only path possible,
until you see a strange pokemon
taking care of one of the huge
rocks, the same ones which
previously blocked your path.
Continue to the left and enter
the first door, follow the only
possible path until you find two
possible ones, where you should
go up for another confrontation
with Team Gogo.

Go up, for getting a Magneton,
then exit that small room and
head to the left side, where you
will fight 3 Geodude. You can
easily defeat all of them by
using the help of a water
pokemon, but you should then
take the lower path nearby and
follow it fight against 3
Snubbull, which can be easily
defeat by stunning with
electrical attack and then
quickly capturing them. Up on
the next door, get a Poliwhirl
and then head back to the room
before, to use the Poliwhirl on
the Graveler, which is down on
the right side of the room.
After capturing such pokemon, go
to the room exactly up and use
it on the wall, to allow the
appearance of a new cave with a
Kirlia inside.

Head back to the room where you
got the Graveler, and then all
the way down. Head to the right
side and you will fight an enemy
with 2 different pokemon and
then continue to the upper door
on your right side, facing 3
Zubat before heading to the
upper door. From there, take the
lower left door, then the one
which goes down, the one in the
left and all the way up. Be
specially aware of the Zubat, as
they can confuse your character
for a bit. Do you see that small
cave? Enter it.

Here, you will have to capture
one of those weird Hariyama
pokemon. Then, go all the way
down (where you fought 2
different pokemon) and destroy
the rock blocking your path,
before going down and capturing
another Magneton. Go all the way
back to the cave with the
Hariyama to capture another one,
but NEVER venture to the lower
section of it, as there will be
2 Hariyama to fight at the same
time, and that turns out being
really hard to accomplish for
most players.

After capturing a single one, go
back to the room where you
previously got a Graveler and
up, up, right and down until you
can use the Hariyama to get rid
of one of those huge rocks. Go
back to the Hariyama cave, get
the one in the upper room once
again, and then remove the final
huge rock.

A small scene will occur, then
you just need to leave by taking
the lower left door, in the next
room you simply have to head all
to the left and you will see a
new cutscene with Team GoGo.
When you are ready to battle the
powerful foe, talking to the
pokemon and your battle will
start. While he may seem to
cause you some trouble, you can
either use a water pokemon or
try to circle him as quickly as
possible. For newbies, I would
suggest the first technique, as
it requires less skill and less
effort.

After the battle, a short scene
will be seen and you will
automatically exit the cave,
meeting with your partner.



2.15~. Ring Town

Another medal, some conversation
and you should then leave the
building. Head to the upper
right corner of the city and
then talk to the man in there,
who allows you to play a mini-
game, in case you are wanting to
do so. Either you do it or not,
you should then head back to the
headquarters and you will see
your partner leaving, so you
should enter that building and
then watch the cutscene which
follows, as you will earn a new
mission.

Simply leave town by the upper
exit and the mission will start.



2.16~. Mission 6

While your partner is following
you, there's no way you can ask
for his/her help or use his/her
pokemon, in case you are
wondering. So, you should simply
go all the way up and talk to a
man, continue going up and turn
left on the second exit, head
all the way down after the
bridge, as you can capture a
Marshtomp. As you may suppose,
now you should go all the way
up, until you reach a new area.
A girl will start talking about
her missing Jigglypuff, which
you should proceed to find.

From here, go all the way up and
you will see some rare Pokemon,
go all to the left and
eventually you will see her (at
least a Jigglypuff is usually
considered as a "she"...)
jumping/floating around. When
she is going to step on the
floor, quickly move there and
fight her. You can easily
capture this pokemon, but you
should then return to the little
girl (who is still standing in
the lower right corner of this
area) and then proceed (now,
without your partner) to get a
Phanpy, which you should use
toattack a tree, until it drops
a Beedrill. Using him, get rid
of the stone in the right side
of scenario, next to the lower
section of the river. By going
down in there, you will be able
to get a Wartortle.

Now that you've done it, head to
the left area of this area,
which will lead you to a new
area, which contains a single
wooden shrine. No, there isn't
any Celebi in here, so you
should continue to the left and,
in the next room, go all the way
down to face a group of new
pokemon and even to find your
beloved Pikachu. From here, go
back up and turn left on the
first place, continue to the
left and down, left on the next
possible choice and continue up
to the next area, where you will
find a mysterious man, after
jumping off a short cliff.

After the conversation, proceed
to the left and capture a
Quilava, which will lead to
another short conversation.
Follow the path in order to see
Murkrow, which will run away.
Use the Quilava to remove the
tree in your path, which will
lead to yet another
conversation. Continue to the
next area, all the way up but be
careful with all the Beedrill
hanging around, until you reach
yet another new area.

The pokemon in the new are
mostly peaceful, but you should
capture them as usual, before
heading to the area in the
right. By first taking the upper
path, you will understand that
this area is slightly like a
labyrinth, so you should take
the lower path once, which will
allow you to get a Nincada.
Then, head back to the previous
area (by taking the left path)
and use this pokemon to remove
the bush on the central path
area. Enter the newly seen hole
and you will see a Venosaur,
which you can capture with some
aid from a Beedrill, if you have
one with you.

After capturing it, exit this
small cave and go left, to find
yourself in the labyrinthic area
once again. Start by taking the
lower path, then follow the
upper one and finally go for the
lower one, which will lead to
another scene with the Murkrow.
After that one, capture a Phanpy
and use him on the tree, which
will drop down the Murkrow,
leading to another short scene.

When you are ready, go to the
dark pokemon and be sure to
capture him (however, he will
have some help, if you know what
I mean...), an action which may
turn out easier if you use the
thundershock to capture the 4
Spinarak which are running
around. You can then use a
Phanpy (in case you have a
stocked one) or even a Venosaur
to help you capture the Murkrow
itself, which shouldn't pose you
much of a trouble.

After the battle they will all
run away, so you should take the
lower path to exit this area and
see the cutscene which ends this
mission.



2.17~. Ring Town

Another medal, you will be able
to carry one more pokemon with
you, and you will even acquire
another special bar, always
nice. Your boss will take the
elevator up, so you should do
the same thing and you will have
to fight a Dragonite. He doesn't
have much HP but he is indeed
quick, so you will have to try
circling him as quickly as
possible (and forget about the
earned EXP, in here...) and that
is probably the best, and yet
only, tip I can give you about
it.

After the battle, you will be
taken to Summer Town.



2.18~. Summer Town

You will eventually be taken to
the inside of the headquarters,
where you will once again meet
your partner and all that. When
possible, exit it and follow to
the forest, once again making
your way to the inside of the
pyramid, the same one you
visited in a previous mission.
In your way there, you will face
a funny cutscene, but when you
are back inside the pyramid,
your partner will touch the
strange statue in front of you
and a new path will be appear.
Enter it, go all the way down
the stairs and you will have to
face a new mission.



2.19~. New Mission

While this mission doesn't seem
to have a real number, it indeed
has an interesting feature, with
the player being able to select
which area he wants to face
first. There is a cutscene with
an Entei statue that you can see
by crossing the upper area of
main bridge, but there are 4
different areas for you to play,
2 in each side of the bridge.

Since the lower left area is
still unable to be followed, and
one of the entrances in the
upper left leads nowhere, there
are initially only 3 areas for
you to choose between, 2 on the
right side of the bridge and 1
on the left side of it. I
suggest you start by the left
side, but it is really up to
you. In there, you will face:

- On the upper left side, you
  will find a windy room, where
  you simply need to reach the
  upper central area, which
  contains a door to a battle.
  In case you have been using
  the stylus to control the
  character, in here you'd
  better use the directional
  controls to do it, as it will
  turn your task into something
  easier. At the end, you should
  face (and obviously beat) a
  Flygon, which is weak but
  REALLY quick. Therefore, you
  should wait for him to be in
  the middle of the screen,
  preparing to attack, and then
  circle him as quickly as
  possible. Hopefully, you will
  capture it without much
  trouble.

- On the lower right side, you
  will find a room with 5
  Gyarados shooting water
  bubbles. In case you are hit
  by one of those, you will fall
  to the floor below and you'll
  have to start over. This isn't
  very hard, you simply need to
  see where the bubbles are
  heading and try to walk only
  when you're sure that you
  won't be hit. At the end,
  you'll have to face 2 Kingdra,
  which aren't even very hard to
  capture. You can simply stun
  (and quickly capture) one of
  them with your thundershock,
  and then you can simply
  normally capture the other. Be
  aware not to lift the stylus
  when they are inside the
  water, or your capture will
  fail. Apart from that, this
  one is probably the most easy
  of the 4 areas.

- On the upper right side, you
  will find a room where you
  simply need to step on the
  huge yellow switches to spawn
  some enemies, which you should
  capture and use to destroy the
  blocks nearby. It is an easy
  task, and you should destroy
  all the blocks before
  proceeding to the last door.
  There's no way you can take
  more pokemon with you there,
  and when you destroy the last
  block all your pokemon will
  run away (well, besides the
  one which always follows you),
  as you will have to face a
  powerful dragon, Salamence.
  This will probably be your
  toughest battle this far, as
  you will need to be extremely
  careful with your foe. The
  stunning attack of your
  pokemon doesn't seem to help
  at all, so you have to do it
  by skill, which turns out
  being really hard, as your
  enemy has a nice 22 points of
  HP. Your best best is to start
  circling him as soon as he
  lands on the floor (causing a
  massive explosion...), be
  aware of his beam and when he
  starts flying, try to circle
  him as quickly as possible,
  always without touching it.
  With some tries, you will
  probably manage to beat him,
  but besides that there's not
  much I can tell you, sorry
  about that.

After beat these 3 areas, you
will finally be able to enter
the one in the lower left, which
you should take after saving
your game. In there, you will
find an unimportant room (c'mon,
you will only fall out of this
area if you are REALLY dumb), so
you should simply head to the
upper section, where you will
see a Charizard and Team GoGo.
Another cutscene will then
follow, and eventually you will
see the Charizard roaming
around. You must touch it when
it is back in the ground, and a
battle will start.

While he isn't very strong, your
main problem may be having
enough time to capture him. Each
time he starts spitting fire,
his HP will reset, so your
biggest problem may be the one
of getting him. Well, you should
bear in mind that when you're
hit with one of those small
static flames, they seem to
disappear, and that's something
you could try to use for your
own advantage. Exactly after he
stops spitting fire, you should
try to circle him as many times
and as quickly as possible, but
don't mind about the EXP, think
simply of capturing him and
completing the battle.
Eventually you will be able to
do it, and the game will
continue.

Your life will (fortunately) be
restored, so you should exit
this area (there's no need to
check the upper room) and go the
the middle of the big bridge,
where the statue of an Entei
was. A new scene will appear, in
which the statue disappears, and
then the mountain will strangely
start to shake. When you proceed
to check what happened, a new
mission appears.



2.20~. Yet another mission

Hum, a real Entei is around... I
wonder how he got here, NOT!
Well, back to what matters,
appears that this area was
actually a volcano, which you
will now need to calm down.
Proceed to the right and all the
way up, where you will fight two
fire pokemon. From there, go up
and right to get a Graveler,
which you can easily capture if
you wait until he rises from the
floor. In this same room, use
him to get rid of the huge rock
on the lower right corner, above
the stairs. Inside, you will
capture a Tangela and a
Sceptile, which you can capture
with some help from a fire
pokemon.

Getting in the outside, cross
the bridge to the left side and
you will fight a Rapidash. Cut
the brown fence for a small cave
with 2 water pokemon, all of
which you should capture. Back
to the outside, continue going
up and you will be able to get a
Manectric, but you should also
enter a small cave, the same one
that previously didn't have
anything in there, which now has
2 Beldum. A Magmar can sometimes
also be seen in the outside, so
in case you see him, be sure to
capture one.

When you're done, go back to the
right side of the bridge and
then continue all the way up,
you'll reach a new screen and
eventually fight 3 Slugma.
Instead of following the new
stairs, continue going up and
you'll have to fight a Meowth
and a Sneasel, before trying to
capture the Rhydon, which is
hanging nearby. With his help,
get into the stairs you
previously unlocked (when you
beat the 3 Slugma) and use him
to destroy the huge rocks that
fell from the top of the cave.

Going slightly down, you will
find a Houndoom, but you should
continue heading down and down
in the stairs which are seen at
the end. Follow the only
possible path and you will see
another cutscene with the woman
from before. Instead of
instantly going up on those
stairs, take the ones in the far
left and you will be able to get
some Charmander. You are then
free to save your game and go up
the stairs.

In there, you will find one of
those Team GoGo guys with his
pokemon, a Slaking. While he can
cause a lot of damage to you in
case you are in front of him,
you can simply circle him and
stop when he is about to attack,
turning this into an easy
battle.

After the battle, you should
simply go all the way up until a
new room, where you will see the
guy from before, along with an
Entei. Such pokemon is indeed
weaker than you could think, so
apart from his ability to summon
more fire pokemon to this
battle, he isn't strong at all.
If such thing indeed happens,
you can use a full power
thundershock to paralyze
everyone on the screen, easily
capturing the weaker pokemon. As
for the Entei itself, remember
when I told you to stock those
water pokemon? This is exactly
where you should be using them,
send the Entei inside one of
those classic bubbles (from the
water power) and then capture
him as quickly as possible.

After getting rid (or maybe
not...) of this legendary
pokemon, you should head back to
where the woman was, which will
trigger a cutscene with the
Charizard and eventually take
you back to the headquarters.



2.21~. Summer Town

Some conversation, and you
should exit the headquarters as
soon as you are able to, which
will lead you to another
cutscene. After that one, take
the elevator up and talk to the
Dragonite, who will take you
back to the second it this
game's cities.



2.22~. Fall City

After the conversation, you will
get a new mission, where you
should go to the central part of
the city and then to the exit on
the right side of it.



2.23~. Mission 7

This will start with a small
cutscene, you simply have to
interact with the door and the
guy following you will open it.
The front door is (as it is
usual in this kind of game)
closed, so you must go all the
way around the building. Simply
proceed to the right, and all
the way around, you can catch
some Voltorb but you MUST
capture a Meowth and a Makuhita.
When you captured at least those
2 pokemon, head to the front of
this factory and enter the
silver door on the right.

Use the Meowth to get rid of the
wooden fence on the left and
then go up the stairs, where you
should use the Makuhita to get
rid of the box. Go down the hole
and you can capture a Growlithe.
After doing so, continue your
way on the floor above, by
taking the only possible path
and defeating the 2 Voltorb.
Proceed by that path for a short
scene with Team GoGo, before
continuing to the left.

There's not much to say around
here, except that you will see a
Pikachu locked in a cage, but
you can't save it yet. Continue
going up, for a room full of Mr.
Mime, which you should exit by
the left side. You'll have to
fight 2 Mr. Mime, which you
should stun and capture as soon
as possible.

Proceed to the left, then go up
and to the right on the next
room, going up the stairs. Be
sure to capture the Pinsir in
here, but you can also fight a
Slakoth on the upper left corner
of this room. When you're done,
go back to the room with the
Pikachu and release it, which
will make some Ghost pokemon
appear around. Go back to the
attic and capture another Pinsir
before continuing.

Back to the room where you went
up the stairs, this time you
should exit the room by the
lower exit, which will
eventually take you to a battle
against a Muk and two other
strange pokemon. Capture the two
of them by stunning them, and
then head to capture the Muk.

Enter the door and capture the
Houndoom, which you should then
use in that big room (the one
now filled with Gastly), to get
rid of the thing that prevented
you from going down the stairs.
On that new room, beat the 3
pokemon and continue going all
the way down, where you will
eventually need to face a whole
lot of Rattata. It will be
really easy to capture them all,
you don't even need to be afraid
of it!

Down to the next room, which
despite containing 3 exits, you
must initially take the one in
the right side. Make your way to
the upper section of that room
(yes, I know it is filled with
eletrical floors, but I don't
think you can do it wrong, it is
rather easy) and enter the new
room, where you should use your
Pinsir to release this Pikachu.
Go back to the room you just
came from, capture the Magneton
and a Pinsir, then going for the
room in the left, on that big
room with 3 exits. Go all the
way around the boxes and exit to
the lower left room.

Here, go all the way up and
you'll see another cutscene,
where you will be attacked by
two pokemon, which you can
easily stun and capture. When
your enemy leaves, enter the
room he came from and be sure to
capture at least the Scyther, as
you will be needing it soon.

Exit this room, proceed by the
path in the right side of the
room and enter the first door
you see. Use the Scyther to
release the Raichu, which will
escape. Go all the way back to
that room with 3 entrances, and
while you are trying to do so,
another member of Team GoGo will
fight you. His pokemon, a
Scizor, can be stunned with the
electrical attack, so you can
use it to easily capture it,
provided you capture him
quickly.

After the battle, your mission
will be over and you will be
taken back to your headquarters.



2.24~. Fall City

A small conversation, and then
you will get another medal. When
all the conversation ends, take
the elevator to the second floor
and use the Dragonite to go back
to Summer Town.



2.25~. Summer Town

You'll be seeing a slightly
longer conversation, but at the
end you can get a new mission.
After that, exit to the jungle
(as usual) and this new mission
will start.



2.26~. Another mission

This one would be REALLY easy,
if it wasn't for a small detail:
the guy who is following you is
afraid of bugs. Interesting,
hum? Every time he is touched by
a bug, your position in this
mission will be reset and you
will have to do it all over
again. A trick is to constantly
check the map on the console's
upper screen, as you will
normally know if anyone (either
bug or simply another pokemon)
are nearby.

You should start by exiting the
first area by the upper left
corner, then continue to the
place where the Snorlax
previously was, take the upper
route in there, then the upper
one and then all the way up, to
reach a new area.

Here, go all the way up but be
aware, as some bugs may cover
your path. Up on the mountain
parts covered with herb, and all
the way up until you find a
cave-like place, which contains
a save point. From there, go
slightly up and the guy who is
following you will kick a
Magikarp onto the water, an
action which will awaken a
powerful Gyarados, along with 4
amazing Magikarp. As soon as
possible, stun everyone with an
eletrical attack and then
quickly capture ALL the
Magikarp. As for the Gyarados,
you can either restore your
entire special bar and then stun
(and quickly capture) him, or
you can do it by skill, slowly
capturing him and being
specially aware of his beam,
which he always uses twice in a
row.

After the battle, another
cutscene will be seen and your
mission here will be over.



2.27~. Summer Town

Conversation, and eventually a
new mission. Exit the
headquarters and the guy you
just met will talk to you, so
you should visit the lower
platforms in this town and
another cutscene will be seen.
When you are able to control
your character once again, move
to the submarine and your 8th
mission will start.



2.28~. Mission 8

Oh, so this was the area in
which the Magikarps are hanging
outside of the water... I wonder
how they do that, but nevermind,
I am supposed to be writing
about how to complete the
game... Well, when the
conversation ends, be sure to
follow the guy into the next
area.

When you reach it, you will
notice that this room has quite
a few new pokemon types, so you
may want to try getting at least
once of each species before
heading into the next area,
acessible at the top of this
one. On the new one, start by
going left (to capture a rare
pokemon) and then go up, to yet
another new room.

In here, instead of going up (as
the man outside the cave may
suggest) you should go all the
way left, across the many rooms
and capturing the several rare
pokemon which will cross your
path, but don't forget to use
that pokemon that I told you to
capture in the last paragraph,
as you can use it to break the
huge rock and capture a
Wobbuffet. When your done, go
back to the place where the man
was and up, to enter a not-yet-
visited area.

In there, you will see a
sleeping Steelix, which you need
to awake by using the Poliwrath
that you capture a few moments
ago, in the area where you got
the Wobbuffet. However, after
making him disappear, be sure to
head back and capture two water
pokemon before proceeding. When
you're ready, enter the huge
hole and go down the stairs,
saving if you like.

On the next area, exit by the
stairs on the left and you will
see the guy from before talking
to someone else. You should go
right, but when you try to do
it, you will see that those
pokemon won't allow you.
Therefore, you need to bring
them the other pokemon. In order
to do it, take the upper path,
go all the way up and down the
hole in the floor. You will find
yourself in a water area with
lots of exits, but you should
simply take the leftmost exit,
which will take you to the
pokemon you want to catch, so
you should then return it to
parents, so that they go away.
You can proceed right away if
you want, but you can also
return to the water maze-like
area and get the other rare
pokemon in this area, which can
be found by taking the rightmost
exit.

When you're ready, take the same
path that all those pokemon and
on to the next area. You can
capture a Raichu and a Piloswine
before going up the new stairs,
something you sure should do.
Next area, you can capture a
Golem as a new pokemon BUT you
can't remove the huge ice blocks
yet, as you will need a fire
pokemon. When you're ready, be
sure to have at least a fighting
pokemon (like the one you
previously used to removed a
rock before, a Medicham) and
SAVE YOUR game in this room,
then you can go all the way
around the stage and up, making
the Steelix attack you. He is
one of the biggest pokemon you
will see in the entire game, so
you should be careful. Your best
bet for capturing such beast is
by stunning him and then QUICKLY
putting the fighting pokemon
into play, to cause as much
damage as quickly as possible.
It may take a while, but
eventually you will manage to do
it and a cutscene will follow.
Another strategy for this battle
is probably stun it at full
power when he is moving in a
loop and then use Medicham to
quickly capture it.

The two people from before will
appear, and so will a soldier
from Team GoGo. Instead of
heading to the Steelix's cave
(it doesn't contain anything),
follow those people by the only
possible path and you will
eventually find yourself going
to another new zone, where you
will be asked if you wanna drop
your pokemon. Obviously, you
should do it, or else you
wouldn't be able to continue. Go
slightly up and your mission
will be over.



2.29~. Win Town

After entering the headquarters,
you will be given a new medal
and you will be given another
special bar, apart from a new
mission. After all the
conversation, leave this town by
its upper exit, and your mission
will start.



2.30~. Mission 9

When following the road, you
will eventually see a scene with
a Charizard flying around. Be
sure to capture the 2 water
pokemon in here, and then follow
the road to the right side,
fighting 6 weak enemies. When
you see the sleeping Snorlax,
turn left and continue following
the road, fighting some more of
those week enemies. Continue,
and you will find yet some more
enemies. Some more road, and
eventually you reach the next
area.

Some enemies will jump from
tree, but you'd better run from
the battle if they are too many.
Up to 2 will be OK, but more of
them may cause you a lot of
trouble. However, they give a
lot of EXP, so you could hang in
here for a while, defeating them
one by one. When you're ready,
go up for the next area.

Enter the house and you can talk
to the man, who will restore
your entire HP. Now, you should
continue following the road BUT
before crossing the bridge, go
all the way up and you can
capture a Raichu. Then, when
crossing the bridge, you will
see a rare pokemon being stalked
by members of Team GoGo. It will
later cause a lot of fog in this
area, which you need to remove.
The best way to find the pokemon
causing this is by checking the
map on the upper screen, you can
use it to find where the pokemon
are and then find the particular
one. It isn't very strong, but
you will find it to be quick.
After capturing such pokemon, go
all the way up and continue
following the road until you
reach a new area.

You will need to knock the tree
down, so you should capture a
Piloswine (there's one nearby)
and use it to do the job. Go all
way to the right and eventually
you will see a zone with the
trees burned down, you will also
see the Charizard in there and
you should touch him to fight
him. When he is flying, start by
stunning him with your
thundershock and then attack
your enemy with the water
pokemon, but be aware to capture
him QUICKLY, or else you will be
in trouble. An interesting
detail is that you can actually
run away from this battle, so
you'd better do it if you run
out of water pokemon, as they
are your best chance against
this enemy. Even if the bubble
doesn't stand in there time
enough, you can still try to
capture him, but be way more
careful when he is flying
around, shooting flames out of
his mouth.

After the battle you'll see a
short cutscene and you should
then continue going up,
obviously saving your game on
the save point. Follow all the
road until you find a Tangela,
which you should capture.
Continue going all the way up
and at the top you should turn
left, where you will have to
face two pokemon. After
defeating them, take the path in
the left and follow the road,
turning left on the first
possible chance, but not before
having 2 Tangela on your party.

In the next area, use those 2
Tangela to jump to the other
side of the cliff and the
continue following the road to
the next area, where you will
need to climb a huge mountain.
When you're reaching the top, an
odd scene will occur and you
will see a scene with a Team
GoGo soldier. When you touch the
switch, there will be no way
back, so be sure that it is what
you want to do. In case it
REALLY is, continue reading.

Appears you've just entered Team
GoGo's headquarters! After the
scene, enter the door and save
your game, if you want. Here,
there's a single path for you to
follow but there are some red
floors that reset your position
in this area. While you should
try watch the patterns in which
they lite up and turn off, I
will try to provide you
schematics on how to proceed in
each area. You should simply
follow the ordered number, but
if the numbers are the same, it
means that you should quickly
move from one panel to the
other, without waiting for the
colors to change. The first two
panels are easy, you just need
to do:

   X
-> 1

But continuing, you should then
enter the door and you'll see
some more panels.

   X X X X
   2 2 2 1 <-

(After the first panel turns
off, go there. Then, when all
the other lower panels turn off,
quickly move all the way, as
shown above).

Continue advancing and the
layout for the next one will be
slightly harder than before:

   X X X X
-> 1 2 3 4

(Board the first panel, and then
continue heading to the right
BUT only when the new panel
turns off)

   X 4 3 2 1
   4 4 X X X <-

(Start slowly, but go quickly on
the last 3 panels, as shown
above).

Enter the door and continue
going for more panel "fun".

   1 X
   1 X
   1 X
   1 X
   ^
   |

(While the layout is simply, you
should start moving as soon as
the first panel turns off,
moving in direct line AND as
quickly as possible)

   X 1
   X 1
   X 1
   X 1
 ^
 |

(Once again, you should go as
quickly as possible, just like
in the panels you just faced)

Go down the stairs and this will
all be finally over, no more
panels for anyone. A huge door
will close after you, so you'd
better save your game before
continuing.

Go left, capture the 3 pokemon
in there and then exit by the
upper green teleporter. Continue
to the left and you will have to
beat 3 pokemon at once. Here,
you can get a powerful Swampert
on the lower left corner, and
you can then take the lower left
exit. On the next room, take the
only possible exit and you will
find a Blaziken, which you
should capture before heading to
the right side. Follow all the
way to the left and board the
last teleporter, in the next
room you should take the upper
left one and you'll have to
fight against another enemy with
3 pokemon.

Take the only possible exit and
then head to the right, going
down the stairs when possible.
Go down, capture all the pokemon
and down once more, you'll find
your partner and you should then
capture the 2 pokemon in the
right, before going up two areas
and using the Sneasel to remove
the fence, where you will find
an Electabuzz. First, use him to
fully heal you, but you should
then return to this same screen
and capture him
*again*. When you're ready, take
 the red door and you will find
 yourself
fighting against a Team GoGo
member, who you should defeat
with the aid of the water
pokemon you captured before.

After the scene, heal yourself
with the Electabuzz and then
capture another one (and the
Mankey nearby!) before heading
into the blue door. In there,
you'll have to fight against 3
other enemies. Use the
thundershock to easily capture
the 2 weaker ones, and then go
for the big one, which you
should with strategy, as we did
to capture it before.

One more scene, and you should
then enter the same door which
your enemies took. 3 more
pokemon for you to battle, you
should start by maxing out the
power on your special bar and,
when possible, use the
thundershock to capture the 2
Scyther. Then, continue maxing
out the power on the special
bar, and when it is once again
completly filled, you should
stun the Scizor and then quickly
capture it. Yet again, heal
youself and capture another
Electabuzz before heading down
the stairs.

You can capture whoever you want
in there, but be sure to enter
the door and capture at least a
single Machamp. Then, save you
game and go all the way up on
the room filled with Machamp,
continue going up on the next
room and you will need to fight
the 3 forms of Larvitar. Start
by easily capturing the Larvitar
itself, then use a Metang to
stun everyone and QUICKLY
capture the Pupitar, and then
finally use the Machamp to help
you capturing the Tyranitar.

After the battle, an unusual
cutscene will occur and your
mission will be over. When all
the conversation ends, go down
the hole and exit the cave,
which will take you to the
outside and (eventually) back to
town.



2.31~. Win Town

You'll get your tenth (and last)
medal, along with ability to
finally take up to 7 pokemon
with you. Eventually you will
get yet another mission, so you
should exit this headquarters
and move out of town, by taking
the upper exit. Go all the way
up to the place where you had to
use a Tangela to go to the other
side of the cliff AND when
you're at the top of the moutain
(slightly before the area I just
told you about), you will notice
that the huge gates from before
are now open. Obviously (or we
wouldn't be be here), you should
enter them and go up the stairs,
which will unlock your last
mission.



2.32~. Mission 10

Go slightly up, and you'll see
someone closing another of those
huge gates. Interact with the
gates and you'll see a new
scene, where the Charizard from
before appears and opens the
gates for you. Cross them and
you can save your game if you
like. Go up the stairs, all to
the right and up the stairs,
continue going up and turn left
before the second stairs,
falling on the hole between the
3 pillars. Follow that path to
the lower left corner and then
jump down, in that exact place.
Proceed all to the left and when
you reach the end of that
platform and jump to the left,
going up the stairs and all the
way up and up on the next
stairs, to the left and up
another stairs, after which
you'll see a Raichu, which you
should capture. Head all to the
left and up the stairs, follow
that path and eventually you
will find yourself seeing
another cutscene.

Basically, you have to put the 3
main Eevee evolutions on those
stone squares, and I mean
Vaporeon, Flareon and Jolteon.
From here, jump down from the
lower left square, then turn
right and you should go down the
stairs, as you will find an
entrance in there. That place is
full of rare pokemon, which you
could try to capture, and
there's even a Flareon in the
room at the lower area. Capture
AT LEAST the Flareon, the 2
Gengars and the Espeon before
going out, but remember that you
still need to find the other 2
main Eevee evolutions.

From the exit of that small
place, go up the stairs and all
to the left, falling down the
ledge from the leftmost point
for the Vaporeon, who usually
tries to run from the battle as
soon as possible. Stun him with
the electrical attack and then
you should quickly capture him.
Now, head back to the stone
squares and interact with the
ones in the left and right
sides, for getting rid of 2 (out
of 3) pokemon which you were
required to capture.

From there, go all the way to
the right and fall down the
rightmost ledge twice, to find
yourself in an area with the
Jolteon, which you can capture
with some help from a Gengar.
Now, use the Raichu to heal you
and go all the way back to the
room which contained all the
rare pokemon capturing a
Medicham and the Gengar which
you just used to capture the
Jolteon.

Head back to the stone squares
and interact with the middle
one, which will cause the huge
door to open. Enter it, SAVE
YOUR GAME and then start
climbing the huge building on
front of you, facing several
battles. You can (and should...)
go back and save after each of
them, but it's really up to you.

For the first one, simply stun
everyone and be sure to capture
at least 2 out of the 3 pokemon.
As for the last one, simply
capture it, as you would usually
do. Proceed all to the right.

For the second one, use the
Espeon and be sure to capture at
least 2 out of the 3 pokemon. As
in the battle before, you should
then simply try to capture the
last one as you normally would.
Up the stairs...

For this third one, be aware
that you may need to heal during
the battle, and you should use
your Raichu for that purpose. As
soon as you have your special
bar filled, stun your two
enemies with the eletrical
attack and the capture the
Blaziken (the fire pokemon...).
As for Blastoise, he isn't much
of a threat alone, but I guess
you can use your Gengar to help
capturing him.

After the battle, instead of
continuing, you should go back
to the previous area, fully heal
yourself (and I mean it!) and
then capture the following
pokemon: Medicham, Gengar,
Gengar (yep, 2 of them!),
Espeon, Flareon, Raichu. When
you have captured all of those,
heal yourself, be sure to have
your special bar completly
filled and then head to the
place inside the gates. As
before, be sure to save your
game and then climb to the top
of the building, where you will
be asked to confirm if you
really wanna go (or not).
Obviously, you should want to do
it by now...

Long cutscene, and then you will
have to fight a Raikou. By
simply dodging his thunders (or
waiting for them to go away) and
then striking with one of your
Gengar you will do just fine, as
your enemy isn't very strong.

Then, after a small cutscene,
you will have to fight a
Suicune. Stun him as soon as the
battle begins, before he has the
opportunity to create some
clones, and you will then be
able to easily capture him.

Another cutscene, and you will
finally fight the most powerful
of the 3 beasts, an... Entei!
Strangely, this time he is way
stronger than the last time you
saw him, and he will be covered
by some small flames that grant
him a certain immortality.
"Capture" this pokemon normally
until all the flames surrounding
him disappear, and then you can
use the Espeon to stun it for a
while, but EXACTLY after using
it, call for the Medicham and
use it to have an even easier
time. If you can't do it, call
for the other pokemon you
currently have. There's also an
interesting technique in which
you can simply held your
opponent in there (by taking
only 1, 2 HP at each time and
then lifting your stylus) until
the flames disappear, then stun
him with a full powered
thundershock and then use the
Medicham (or simply capture him
normally, like I did, but such
technique is for more advanced
players!). Believe me, this
battle will be really hard, but
eventually you will manage to
beat your opponent and a
cutscene will appear.

Strangely, the man from before
will be gone, and your boss will
appear, leading to this game's
final cutscene, where most of
the events in this game are
finally spoiled for you, and the
mission will be over, as will
the game. Well, or at least the
main storyline will... You can
see the credits and all the
usual stuff, and then your game
will be saved.

Now, you should continue reading
in this next section of this
guide...



3~. What now?

As you may have read above,
after the credits and all that,
your game will be saved. Load it
as you normally would, and then
you'll see a large cutscene,
allowing you to eventually gain
access to the data of your
partner's pokemon. Then, take
the elevator to the second floor
and talk to the man next to the
Dragonite, who will allow you to
choose what city you want to go
to. Pick "F", for Fall city.



3.1~. Fall City

Try to enter the headquarters
and you will receive a message.
Now, go to the house where you
used a Staryu to light the
basement, and talk to the guy
who is inside, but not without
first releasing the pokemon
which you captured, if any. (In
case you don't know how to do
it, simply access the menu by
pressing START, select the upper
option and then select each
pokemon in there, pressing the
upper button after each one)

You will get a new cutscene and
eventually be back to the
headquarters in this city and
get a new mission, when you exit
this headquarters.



3.2~. Extra Mission 1

After the cutscene, go down the
ladder and you'll have to fight
4 Staryu at the same time. Stun
them with the electrical attack
and then easily capture them.
When you're back in the outside,
visit that house you've just
seen and then you will have to
beat 4 Krabby, which you can
easily capture (c'mon, they are
really slow!). After such
battle, go to the outside and
then slightly down, where you
will see yet another scene. Make
your way to the pokemon in the
lower right corner and you will
have to fight them, they are
some Carvanha. Stun them all
with a fully powered electrical
attack and you will then be able
to capture them easily.

Now, you'll see some strange
things in the sea, so you should
board in the Lapras and you'll
(eventually) be taken into some
whirlpools, where you will get
to see a Kyogre. He isn't
strong, but he can summons waves
that seem to cause massive
damage, so you should wait until
less waves are coming (that
*eventually* happens, you just
have to wait!) and then capture
him as quickly as possible. The
electrical attack may also
slightly help you, but be sure
to avoid the waves at all costs,
as they may put you into
trouble.

After the battle, you will be
taken to the headquarters nearby
and your mission will end.



3.3~. Fall City

After the long conversation, you
will find yourself outside of
the headquarters. Therefore,
enter it once again and then
take the elevator up, using the
Dragonite to go to Ring Town.



3.4~. Ring Town

In here, enter the headquarters,
release all the pokemon you may
have (if any) and then talk to
your boss. After all the
conversation, you will be taken
to Summer Town.



3.5~. Summer Town

Some more conversation, an
eartquake will occur and you
will eventually be given a new
mission. Exit the headquarters
and then you will find yourself
instantly at the fire cave,
where you found that pyramid
from before and your mission
will start.



3.6~. Extra Mission 2

Go to the right, up, cross the
bridge to the left side,
continue going and you will see
that your partner is trapped
inside that cave with a huge
rock. Capture the Rhydon nearby
and then use him to get rid of
that huge rock. Small cutscene,
enter the cave and be sure to
capture the 2 Poliwrath.

Back to the outside, head all to
the right across the bridge and
use one of the Poliwrath to get
rid of the huge glowing fire
stone. Capture as many pokemon
as you want, but be sure to keep
the other Poliwrath with you at
all times. When you're ready, go
all the way up and enter the
next area.

Continue going up and fight the
guy from Team GoGo, having some
help from any fire pokemon to
easily capture the two enemies.
After defeating them, head to
the left side and capture (and
use) the Manectric as many times
as it takes to fully heal you.
When you're done, capture him
yet again and then go up the
stairs on the right.

On the next room, go all the way
down and down the stairs.
Capture the other electrical
pokemon, another Manectric on
the upper left corner and go up
those stairs, on the upper left
corner. Explore that room up to
the end, as you can find some
Charmeleon in there. You can
also capture another Rhydon in
there, if you want. After doing
so, go to the outside and to the
right, saving your game before
going up the stairs.

On the next room, go all the way
up until you reach a new room
and you will be able to capture
an Arcanine, which you can
easily stun (with the eletrical
attack) and capture. Now, go all
the way down and back to the
room with the 2 Charmeleon,
where you should drop down an
hole in the floor, which is
placed between the 2 Charmander
and the place where you could
previously see 2 Charmeleon.
You'll see a new scene and you
should then enter the door that
just opened.

You'll find a Groudon inside,
which you can easily capture
with the help of your Poliwrath.
You kept it, didn't you? I hope
so... After the cutscene you'll
be brought back to town.



3.7~. Summer Town

The usual cutscene, and your
mission will be (literally)
over. When all the conversation
ends, you should enter the
headquarters once again, take
the elevator up and talk to the
guy near the Dragonite. This
time, go to Win Town.



3.8~. Win Town

When you're there, talk to the
woman in the right (not before
releasing your pokemon, as you
did before) and a bigger
cutscene will follow, where the
other guy from before will join
you and you will gain yet
another new mission. Exit the
headquarters and you will
instantly find yourself in the
place of the mission.



3.9~. Extra Mission 3

Start by going up and you will
have to fight a guy with 3
Ekans. Easily defeat them and
then search the entire area for
a Ralts, a Kirlia and a
Gardevoir. I can't tell you
where they are since they seem
to change their location, but
you can simply continue
searching and eventually you
will get all 3 of them.

After doing so, visit the place
where you previously put the 3
evolutions of Eevee and you'll
see a cutscene. Interact with
the 3 stone blocks and put the 3
pokemon I told you to capture in
there, which will lead to yet
another cutscene. Go up and
fight 2 pokemon in that huge
building, which you can easily
defeat by using your usual
thundershock. Now, go all the
way down to the previous area
and capture the following
pokemon: Medicham, Gengar,
Gengar (yes, 2 of them, once
again...), Espeon, Umbreon,
Raichu. Their locations are the
same as before. Once you have
all of them return to the huge
building and fight the second
group of enemies. Using a single
Gengar, capture all of them and
then continue going.

You'd better heal and save your
game at this point, but it is
really up to you. At the top
you'll find a Rayquaza, which
you should capture with some
help from a Gengar, which will
make this battle really easy.

After the battle, some more
conversation will occur and you
will be back to town.



3.10~. Win Town

A lot more conversation and then
your mission will really be
over. Some time later, you will
finally see the (usual) screen
that allows you to save the game
and then it will be over.

I mean, the game isn't over yet,
but there aren't any more
"normal" missions for you to
take. Rumor has it that in Japan
you can download at least 2
extra missions, but I wasn't
able to try that, so I can't
talk much about it. Therefore,
all there is to do right now is
capturing all pokemon, which is
actually doable in the game,
without requiring you to have
any other games, unlike usually
happens on pokemon games.

But... well... that's all for
this section, I guess, unless
you're not playing the Japanese
version of the game.



3.11~. Special Missions

In the American Version of the
game, after beating the 3
legendary dogs you will unlock
something called Ranger Net,
Basically, it is a place which
grants you a couple Special
Missions, which I will talk
about in a minute.



3.11.1~. Special Mission 1
     (Deoxys)

First, you get to battle Deoxys,
which eventually runs away from
battle and leading to an event
where you're informed that you
can only capture such Pokemon
when it is in its Normal form.
Go to the place near the tunnel,
you'll fight it some more times
and eventually you will reach a
place where it won't run away
from you. Then, keep on
attacking him and eventually it
will lead to a scene where he
turns into his very own Normal
Form. When that happens, try to
stun him using Plusle/Minun's
attack (obviously, at full
power) and then circle him as
quickly as possible.



3.11.2~. Special Mission 2
     (Celebi)

In the forest, you'll see this
pokemon and a couple scenes.
Then, try to capture it (a fire
pokemon is advisable, for
obvious reasons) and he won't
probably put you into much
trouble, since he only requires
3 circles to capture.



3.11.3~. Special Mission 3 (Mew)

After finding him in the jungle,
simply use your older strategies
(mainly, the stunning one) and
you can probably get it in no
time.



3.11.4~. Special Mission 4
     (Manaphy's Egg)

In the Japanese version of the
game, you acquired this quest by
an easier task. However, in the
American version, after
completing the game you must go
to the "Ranger Net" option, from
the main menu, hold down R, X
and press left (in the
directional controls), which
will unlock a password option.
In there, enter the password for
this mission, and a new mission
will appear, in its proper
place. In there, you'll take a
small mission, in the forest and
tunnel that, when beaten, grants
you the amazing Manaphy Egg,
which you can later send to
Pokemon Diamond/Pearl, in order
to unlock that secret pokemon.
In case you're wondering on what
password you need to input, it
seems to change depending on
your version of the game. Here
are some of the possible ones:

P8M2-9D6F-43H7 -- American
version Mg35-Cpb8-4FW8 -- U.K.
Version C58f-t3WT-Vn79 --
Overall European Version (?)

Be aware that these aren't all
the possible ones. There are
probably many others, but since
I couldn't find all of them, I
can't add them here. If none of
these work for you, try checking
magazines and gaming websites
from your country, as they may
have the proper code.



4~. Acquirable Pokemon and their
moves

Unlike what happened in most of
the previous Pokemon games, in
here not all of the famous
monsters will be available for
capturing. Actually, only around
212 of them are capturable in
this game, and while some may be
easy to find and capture, others
aren't. Therefore, this is the
section of this guide that you
should read in order to know
what pokemon you can in fact
capture in this game, where to
capture them and their powers.
Be sure to remember that each
Pokemon has (usually) two
powers, one that can be used in
the middle of the battles and
another which can be used while
in the middle of the field. In
order to learn more about those
attacks, be sure to read the
"Pokemon Type" section of this
same guide. Now, on to the
Pokemon themselves, their
information will usually be
given in the following way:

R-number of the pokemon in this
game -> name of that pokemon
TYPE: the type of that
particular pokemon FIELD MOVE:
the field move that this pokemon
can use, if any BATTLE MOVE: the
battle move that this pokemon
can use, if any HOW TO GET HIM:
whatever you need to do in order
to capture this pokemon

Understood? This is mostly
everything you need to know in
order to fully comprehend the
list below. So, I hope you find
it easy to do by now, as you can
actually find all the important
information for getting all your
Pokemon in this section!

I have to state that when you
read "as part of the storyline"
in the section of "HOW TO GET
HIM", I am basically trying to
tell you that you will probably
find him while normally playing
across the story of this game,
at least I did it while writing
this guide. In case you really
can't seem to find it AS PART OF
THE STORY and you aren't
following my guide, contact me
about such problem and I will
try to fix it as soon as
possible.

As a final note, I have to state
that the best time to try
capturing all these pokemon is
after completing the main story.
This way, you will be able to
travel wherever you want and
each of the areas you find will
be filled with even more pokemon
than before, including some new
ones. Bear this in mind while
reading this entire guide,
meaning that if you can't seem
to find a certain pokemon in a
proper location, maybe he isn't
there
*YET* !

Now, on to what probably you
wanna read...


R-001 -> Bulbasaur TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cross BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, all down and slightly to
the left before
    entering the tunnel, you
    will need to use "Cut".

R-002 -> Ivysaur
TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cross
BATTLE MOVE: Grass
HOW TO GET HIM: in the forest.

R-003 -> Venosaur TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, on mission 6 or later,
you will need to use
    "Cut" on a bush, just before
    the labyrinthic area.

R-004 -> Bellsprout TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the forest.

R-005 -> Weepinbell TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, as soon as mission 6.

R-006 -> Victreebel
TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Poison
HOW TO GET HIM: in the forest.

R-007 -> Chikorita TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: you can
even easily find it in the first
forest.

R-008 -> Bayleef TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline.

R-009 -> Meganium
TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Break x3
BATTLE MOVE: Grass
HOW TO GET HIM: in the jungle.

R-010 -> Hoppip TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, as soon as mission 6.

R-011 -> Mudkip TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the forest.

R-012 -> Marshtomp TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: in
the forest, on your mission
number 6 or later.

R-013 -> Swampert TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: at
Team GoGo's base OR in the
forest.

R-014 -> Slowpoke TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game, but he will
only appear after
     you capturing 2 Abra.

R-015 -> Torchic TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the forest.

R-016 -> Combusken TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline.

R-017 -> Blaziken TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: at Team
GoGo's base OR in the road from
the tunnel to Fall
    City.

R-018 -> Rapidash TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Ring
Town mini-game,
    where he will only appear
    after you capturing 2
    Spoink.

R-019 -> Cyndaquil TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, in mission 6 or later.

R-020 -> Quilava TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR at the Mountain
Range.

R-021 -> Typhlosion TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, you have to use "Cut" in
one of the bushes,
    probably the one in the
    lower right part of that
    area.

R-022 -> Pichu TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge BATTLE MOVE:
Electric HOW TO GET HIM: in
several places. However, he is
easily found in the
    forest, as soon as mission
    number 1.

R-023 -> Pikachu TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET HIM:
in lots of places, but you can
first see one in mission
    number 6.

R-024 -> Raichu TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET HIM:
in lots of places, but you can
first see one in mission
    number 8.

R-025 -> Beedrill TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: Break BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, as soon as mission 6.

R-026 -> Ralts TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: at the
Mountain Range OR at Team GoGo
base.

R-027 -> Kirlia TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel (you will need to use a
Graveler), OR on
    mission number 5 (or later)
    OR in the plain capture
    mini-game OR at the Mountain
    Range.

R-028 -> Gardevoir TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 3 OR at the
Mountain Range OR in the
    Ring Town mini-game, where
    she will only appear after
    you
      capturing 2 Kirlia.

R-029 -> Abra TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game.

R-030 -> Spoink TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game.

R-031 -> Nincada
TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Cut
BATTLE MOVE: Bug
HOW TO GET HIM: in the forest.

R-032 -> Ninjask TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Flying
HOW TO GET HIM: in the forest,
use "Tackle" on certain trees.

R-033 -> Shedinja
TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ghost
HOW TO GET HIM: in the forest.

R-034 -> Phanpy TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Tackle BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: in the
jungle OR in the forest.

R-035 -> Donphan
TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x2
BATTLE MOVE: Ground
HOW TO GET HIM: at the temple.

R-036 -> Taillow TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: Gust BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the
forest.

R-037 -> Swellow TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: Gust x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
forest, after mission 6.

R-038 -> Dragonite TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline.

R-039 -> Spearow TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: Gust BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game.

R-040 -> Fearow TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game, but it will
only appear after
    you getting more than 50000
    points in the Fall City
    mini-game.

R-041 -> Doduo TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game, but he will
only appear after
   you capturing 2 Gardevoir.

R-042 -> Dodrio TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game, but he will
only appear if you
    previously scored more than
    5000 points in this same
    mini-game.

R-043 -> Scyther TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: Cut x3 BATTLE MOVE: Flying
HOW TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR in the forest.

R-044 -> Scizor TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: Cut x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Bug HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the forest.

R-045 -> Skarmory TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Ring Town mini-game, but he will
only appear if you
    previously scored more than
    5000 points in the Summer
    Town mini-game.

R-046 -> Murkrow TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Dark HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the forest,
by using
    "Tackle" in the tree where
    you previously saw him.

R-047 -> Zigzagoon TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: in several
places. However, he is easily
found in your
    first mission.

R-048 -> Linoone TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x2 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR in the
forest.

R-049 -> Tauros TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x3 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM: in
the Ring Town mini-game.

R-050 -> Paras TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE: Grass HOW
TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR in the tunnel.

R-051 -> Parasect TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel, you will need a "Gust
x2" ability.

R-052 -> Poliwag
TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water
BATTLE MOVE: Water
HOW TO GET HIM: in the tunnel.

R-053 -> Poliwhirl TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: in
the tunnel (on mission 5 or
later) and in many other
    places.

R-054 -> Poliwrath TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR in the
pyramid.

R-055 -> Politoed TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline.

R-056 -> Magnemite TYPE:
Electric FIELD MOVE: Charge
BATTLE MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET
HIM: in really lots and lots of
places.

R-057 -> Magneton TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET HIM:
in several places, but one of
them is by using a Meditite
    to throw a wall down, on the
    Fall City sewers.

R-058 -> Zubat TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel, on mission 5 or later.

R-059 -> Golbat
TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: Gust x2
BATTLE MOVE: Poison
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-060 -> Crobat TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the cave.

R-061 -> Diglett TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel, on mission 5 or later.

R-062 -> Dugtrio TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel, you need to use "Cross"
on the lower left
    corner of the area filled
    with Zubat. Then, use "Break
    x3" in the next room and you
    will find this pokemon in
    there.

R-063 -> Rhydon TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Ground HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR in the
pyramid.

R-064 -> Geodude TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Break BATTLE MOVE:
Rock HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the tunnel.

R-065 -> Graveler TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Break x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Rock HOW TO GET HIM: in
the tunnel (on mission 5 or
later) and in many other
    places.

R-066 -> Golem TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Rock HOW TO GET HIM: at
the cave oR in the temple.

R-067 -> Plusle TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Paralyze HOW TO GET HIM:
initially select the girl as
your character, or complete
  the game once with the boy.

R-068 -> Minun TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Paralyze HOW TO GET HIM:
initially select the boy as your
character, or complete
  the game once with the girl.

R-069 -> Tangela TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cross BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Mountain
Range.

R-070 -> Krabby
TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water
BATTLE MOVE: Water
HOW TO GET HIM: in Fall City.

R-071 -> Corpish TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: on the
Fall City sewers.

R-072 -> Crawdaunt TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: Cut x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: Fall City
sewers, you will need to have a
Raticate with
    you and simply break the
    fence which is placed before
    the tube with many different
    exits. You can also get it
    as
     part of the storyline.

R-073 -> Totodile TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: on the
Fall City sewers.

R-074 -> Croconaw TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: on
the Fall City sewers.

R-075 -> Feraligatr TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: on
the Fall City sewers, you need
to use "Cross" and then
    "Fire x2" in the room after
    the one which contains
    Koffing.

R-076 -> Squirtle TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: on the
Fall City sewers, you need to
use "Cross" in the
    room after the one which
    contains the Koffing.

R-077 -> Wartortle TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM:
forest, on mission 6 or later,
you need to use "Break" in
    order to remove a huge stone
    which is near the river.

R-078 -> Blastoise TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR on Fall
City, where you
      previously a Staryu.

R-079 -> Voltorb TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge BATTLE MOVE:
Electric HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR near the
factory.

R-080 -> Machop TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break BATTLE MOVE:
Fighting HOW TO GET HIM: in the
tunnel, on mission 5 or later.

R-081 -> Machoke TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Fighting HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline OR in
the factory.

R-082 -> Machamp TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Fighting HOW TO GET HIM:
at Team GoGo's base OR in the
tunnel, after completing the
    game once.

R-083 -> Makuhita
TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x2
BATTLE MOVE: Fighting
HOW TO GET HIM: in Fall City.

R-084 -> Hariyama TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Fighting HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline OR in
the tunnel.

R-085 -> Meditite TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: Break BATTLE MOVE:
Fighting HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Fall City sewers.

R-086 -> Medicham
TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: Break x2
BATTLE MOVE: Fighting
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-087 -> Grimer TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline.

R-088 -> Muk TYPE: Poison FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Poison
HOW TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline.

R-089 -> Koffing TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Fall City sewers.

R-090 -> Drowzee TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Fall City sewers.

R-091 -> Hypno
TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Psychic
HOW TO GET HIM: at the factory.

R-092 -> Mr. Mime TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline.

R-093 -> Pinsir
TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2
BATTLE MOVE: Bug
HOW TO GET HIM: at the factory.

R-094 -> Gastly
TYPE: Ghost
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ghost
HOW TO GET HIM: at the factory.

R-095 -> Haunter
TYPE: Ghost
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ghost
HOW TO GET HIM: at the factory.

R-096 -> Gengar
TYPE: Ghost
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ghost
HOW TO GET HIM: at the temple.

R-097 -> Snubull
TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Tackle
BATTLE MOVE: none
HOW TO GET HIM: on Fall City.

R-098 -> Skitty TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on Fall City.

R-099 -> Meowth
TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Cut
BATTLE MOVE: none
HOW TO GET HIM: on Fall City.

R-100 -> Jigglypuff TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on Fall City.

R-101 -> Rattata TYPE: normal
FIELD MOVE: Tackle BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on Fall City
sewers.

R-102 -> Raticate TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2 BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on Fall City
sewers.

R-103 -> Porygon TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: at the
factory, but this is one of the
most difficult ones
    to
 find. He is sometimes
 invisible, but other times he
    makes himself, visible, and
    that's when you can actually
    capture it. Look closely
    inside the factory and
    eventually
       you will find it.

R-104 -> Kecleon TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: before
entering the factory, destroy
the trash on the
    left side using a "Burn x2"
    ability. He will be there,
    but be careful as he is
    invisible when he isn't
    attacking. Also, you may
    find him as part of the Ring
    Town mini-game.

R-105 -> Snorlax TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range, in a cave near
where you fought the
    Charizard. He will only wake
    up (and be capturable) after
capturing all other 209 pokemon.

R-106 -> Lapras TYPE: Ice FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Water
HOW TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline.

R-107 -> Horsea TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-108 -> Seadra TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-109 -> Kingdra TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR in the
Summer City mini-game,
 after you capturing 2 Horsea.

R-110 -> Goldeen TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-111 -> Seaking TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, appearing
only after you've
      captured 2 Goldeen.

R-112 -> Staryu TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Flash BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Summer
City mini-game.

R-113 -> Starmie TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, only
after you've captured
    2 Staryu.

R-114 -> Remoraid TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-115 -> Octillery TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-116 -> Mantine TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, but only
appears after
    you've captured 2 Remoraid
    and 2 Octillery.

R-117 -> Carvanha TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 1 OR in the Summer
City mini-game.

R-118 -> Sharpedo TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Dark HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, only
after you've captured
    2 Carvanha.

R-119 -> Wailmer TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, but only
after you've
 managed to capture 2 Seaking.

R-120 -> Luvdisc TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game.

R-121 -> Psyduck TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, but only
after you captured
    2 Starmie.

R-122 -> Wingull
TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Water
HOW TO GET HIM: on Fall City.

R-123 -> Pelipper TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Summer City mini-game, but it
will only appear
    after you've previously
    beaten this game's top score
    of 5000 points.

R-124 -> Magikarp TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Summer
City mini-game
   OR in the Mountain Range.

R-125 -> Gyarados TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline.

R-126 -> Oddish TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: by using a
Meditite to throw a wall down,
on the Fall City
    sewers OR in the jungle,
    requiring a "Gust" ability.

R-127 -> Gloom TYPE: Grass FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Grass
HOW TO GET HIM: in the jungle,
requires someone with a "Gust
x2" skill.

R-128 -> Vileplume TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range, you need someone
with a "Gust x3"
    skill.

R-129 -> Treecko
TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cut
BATTLE MOVE: Grass
HOW TO GET HIM: in the jungle.

R-130 -> Grovyle TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: there are
some different places to get it,
but in the
    jungle you can do it by
    using "Water" on a small
    plant, near the place where
    you can throw a tree down.

R-131 -> Sceptile TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Cut x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: on the
Pyramid, after it becomes full
of fire. You need to
    use a "Break x2" to remove
    the huge rock, exactly all
    to the right of your initial
    position.

R-132 -> Lotad TYPE: Water FIELD
MOVE: Water BATTLE MOVE: Water
HOW TO GET HIM: jungle, and
while you could usually need to
lift him from
    the water, they seem to
    randomly get out of it

R-133 -> Lombre TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: in
the jungle, Where you can see a
Grovyle, simply use
    someone in the bush nearby
    and you will be taken to a
    place where 2 of this
    pokemon can be seen.

R-134 -> Ludicolo TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: on Fall
City OR in the jungle.

R-135 -> Numel TYPE: Fire FIELD
MOVE: Burn BATTLE MOVE: Fire HOW
TO GET HIM: on the Pyramid,
after it becomes full of fire.

R-136 -> Camerupt TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on the Pyramid,
after it
     becomes full of fire.

R-137 -> Magmar TYPE: Fire FIELD
MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE: Fire
HOW TO GET HIM: on the Pyramid,
after it becomes full of fire.

R-138 -> Slugma TYPE: Fire FIELD
MOVE: Burn BATTLE MOVE: Fire HOW
TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR on the Pyramid,
after it
     becomes full of fire.

R-139 -> Magcargo TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR on the Pyramid,
after it
     becomes full of fire.

R-140 -> Charmander TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: on the
Pyramid, after it becomes full
of fire.

R-141 -> Charmeleon TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 2 OR on the
Pyramid, after it
    becomes full of fire (which
    will require a "Water x3"
    ability).

R-142 -> Charizard TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline.

R-143 -> Torkoal TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: at the
cave. Use a "Burn x3" ability to
destroy the huge
    block of ice inside a room
    and then continue following
    the
   path, going up the stairs.

R-144 -> Growlithe
TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Fire
HOW TO GET HIM: at the Factory.

R-145 -> Arcanine TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 2 OR on the
Pyramid, after it becomes
    full of fire.

R-146 -> Electrike TYPE:
Electric FIELD MOVE: Charge
BATTLE MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET
HIM: in the jungle, besides many
other places.

R-147 -> Manectric TYPE:
Electric FIELD MOVE: Charge x2
BATTLE MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET
HIM: pyramid (after the fire
appears), besides other places.

R-148 -> Heracross TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Fighting HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline OR in
the jungle.

R-149 -> Mankey TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break BATTLE MOVE:
Fighting HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the
jungle (requires
    "Tackle x3").

R-150 -> Primeape TYPE: Fighting
FIELD MOVE: Break x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Fighting HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline OR in
the jungle (requires
    "Tackle x3").

R-151 -> Ekans TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the
jungle, where they seem
    to randomly jump out of the
    bushes.

R-152 -> Arbok TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Poison HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range.

R-153 -> Venonat TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Poison
HOW TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR in the jungle.

R-154 -> Wurmple TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Bug HOW
TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR in the jungle.

R-155 -> Silcoon
TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Bug
HOW TO GET HIM: in the jungle.

R-156 -> Beautifly TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the
jungle.

R-157 -> Spinarak TYPE: Bug
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Bug HOW TO GET HIM: jungle,
besides some more places.

R-158 -> Ariados TYPE: Bug FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Bug HOW
TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline OR in the jungle OR in
the
    temple.

R-159 -> Flygon TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: Gust x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline.

R-160 -> Gligar TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: jungle OR
at the Mountain Range.

R-161 -> Houndoom TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Dark HOW TO GET HIM: Pyramid,
after it becomes full of fire.

R-162 -> Slakoth TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the jungle.

R-163 -> Vigoroth TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2 BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the jungle.

R-164 -> Slaking TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR in the
jungle.

R-165 -> Bagon TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: Tackle BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline.

R-166 -> Shelgon TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x2 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline.

R-167 -> Salamence TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline.

R-168 -> Jynx
TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Psychic
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-169 -> Solrock
TYPE: Rock
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Psychic
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-170 -> Wobbuffet TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: at the
cave, you will need to break a
big rock near the
    area with water, using a
    "Break x2" pokemon.

R-171 -> Dusclops
TYPE: Ghost
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ghost
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-172 -> Swinub
TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Tackle
BATTLE MOVE: Ice
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-173 -> Piloswine TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Ice HOW TO GET HIM: at the
cave OR at the Mountain Range.

R-174 -> Snorunt
TYPE: Ice
FIELD MOVE: Break
BATTLE MOVE: Ice
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-175 -> Glalie
TYPE: Ice
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Ice
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-176 -> Whismur
TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: none
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-177 -> Loudred TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
none HOW TO GET HIM: at the
cave, by taking the rightmost
exit on the water
    maze.

R-178 -> Exploud
TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: none
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave.

R-179 -> Steelix TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline.

R-180 -> Seedot TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: Tackle BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Mountain
Range.

R-181 -> Nuzleaf TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: Gust BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range.

R-182 -> Shiftry TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: Gust x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range.

R-183 -> Vaporeon TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR at the
temple.

R-184 -> Flareon TYPE: Fire
FIELD MOVE: Burn x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Fire HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR at the temple.

R-185 -> Jolteon TYPE: Electric
FIELD MOVE: Charge x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline OR at
the temple.

R-186 -> Espeon
TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Psychic
HOW TO GET HIM: at the temple.

R-187 -> Umbreon
TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Dark
HOW TO GET HIM: at the temple.

R-188 -> Electabuzz TYPE:
Electric FIELD MOVE: Charge x3
BATTLE MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET
HIM: at Team GoGo's base.

R-189 -> Swalot
TYPE: Poison
FIELD MOVE: none
BATTLE MOVE: Poison
HOW TO GET HIM: at the temple.

R-190 -> Beldum TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: Tackle BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: pyramid,
after it becomes full of fire OR
at Team GoGo's
    base.

R-191 -> Metang TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: Tackle x2 BATTLE
MOVE: Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: at
Team GoGo's base.

R-192 -> Metagross TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: at
Team GoGo's base, after it blows
up.

R-193 -> Larvitar TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: Cut BATTLE MOVE:
Rock HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Mountain
Range.

R-194 -> Pupitar TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Rock HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR in the Mountain
Range.

R-195 -> Tyranitar TYPE: Rock
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Dark HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline OR at Team
GoGo's base.


R-196 -> Swablu TYPE: Flying
FIELD MOVE: Gust BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: in the
Mountain Range.

R-197 -> Altaria TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: Gust x3 BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR in the
Mountain Range.

R-198 -> Aerodactyl TYPE: Rock
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: as part
of the storyline OR at the
temple.

R-199 -> Sneasel TYPE: Dark
FIELD MOVE: Cut x2 BATTLE MOVE:
Dark HOW TO GET HIM: as part of
the storyline OR at the cave OR
in the Mountain
    Range.


R-200 -> Absol TYPE: Dark FIELD
MOVE: Cut x3 BATTLE MOVE: Dark
HOW TO GET HIM: at the cave. Use
a "Burn x3" ability to destroy
the huge
    block of ice inside a room
    and then continue following
    the
  path, taking the lower exit.

R-201 -> Kangashkan TYPE: Normal
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM: on
the first area, found by exiting
Win Town by its upper
    entrance, next to the right
    side of the small lake. You
    will need a pokemon with a
    "Break x3" ability.

R-202 -> Entei TYPE: Fire FIELD
MOVE: Burn x3 BATTLE MOVE: Fire
HOW TO GET HIM: as part of the
storyline.

R-203 -> Raikou TYPE: Electic
FIELD MOVE: Charge x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Electric HOW TO GET HIM:
as part of the storyline.

R-204 -> Suicune TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: Water x3 BATTLE
MOVE: Water HOW TO GET HIM: as
part of the storyline.

R-205 -> Regirock TYPE: Rock
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Rock HOW TO GET HIM: Exactly
before entering the temple, use
"Break x3" on the
    rock on the right. Use
    "Water" on the small flower,
    go up and us "Break x3" on
    the other rock. Inside, use
    "Fire x3" on the ice block
    and continue going up and
    inside the huge door, where
    you will find this enemy.

R-206 -> Regice TYPE: Ice FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Ice HOW
TO GET HIM: in the cave, use a
"Fire x3" pokemon to remove the
lower
    giant ice cube. Use a "Break
    x2" ability to remove the
    huge rock in the right side
    and go down the hole. Use a
    "Cross" ability to go to the
    left and down the next hole.
    Inside the huge door, you
    will find this enemy.

R-207 -> Registeel TYPE: Steel
FIELD MOVE: Break x3 BATTLE
MOVE: none HOW TO GET HIM:
tunnel, you need to use "Cross"
on the lower left corner
    of the area filled with
    Zubat. Then, use "Cut x2" in
    the next room and continue
    going up. You will at least
    4 pokemon with a "Break x2"
    and yet another one with a
    "Cross" ability. You will
    find him inside a huge door.

R-208 -> Kyogre TYPE: Water
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Water HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 1.

R-209 -> Groudon TYPE: Ground
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Ground HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 2.

R-210 -> Rayquaza TYPE: Dragon
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Flying HOW TO GET HIM: during
Extra Mission 3.

R-211 -> Deoxys TYPE: Psychic
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Psychic HOW TO GET HIM: in
Japan, you had to pre-book
tickets for the 9th pokemon
    movie. In the other
    versions, you can get it by
    completing
Special Mission 1 in Ranger Net.

R-212 -> Celebi TYPE: Grass
FIELD MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE:
Grass HOW TO GET HIM: in Japan,
you could only get it in special
events. In the
    other versions, you can get
    it by completing Special
    Mission 2 in Ranger Net.

R-213 -> Mew TYPE: Psychic FIELD
MOVE: none BATTLE MOVE: Psychic
HOW TO GET HIM: in Japan, you
could only get it in special
events. In the
    other versions, you can get
    it by completing Special
    Mission 3 in Ranger Net.

R-??? -> Manafi's egg TYPE:
probably none FIELD MOVE:
probably none BATTLE MOVE:
probably none HOW TO GET HIM: in
Japan, you had to pre-book
tickets for the 9th pokemon
    movie. In the other
    versions, you have to input
    a certain password, as
    stated in the proper section
    of this guide.



5~. Frequently Asked Questions

Here, you will be able to read
about some of the questions that
people may be wondering about
this game, at least if I
consider them to be slightly
important.

Q: What exactly is the name of
this game? A: It is "Pokemon
Ranger". "Pokemon Rangers" and
"The Road to Diamond and
   Pearl" are just slight
   mistranslations.

Q: Are pokemon an it/she/he ? A:
Haven't got a clue, and that's
probably one of the major
problems in
 this guide, as I don't usually

Q: What is the most under-rated
pokemon in the game? A: I would
have to say Gengar. With him,
you can capture a lot of enemies
   easily.

Q: How many towns are there in
this game? A: 4 different ones.

Q: What's that man with 2
Drowzee, that you can see near
the place where there are the 3
legendary dogs? A: By talking to
that man, you will be taken back
to the past and fight
   the 3 legendary dogs once
   again. WHAT? >_>

Q: What happens after you
capture the Snorlax? A: After
exiting its cave, you will
receive a call and a cutscene
will
   occur where all the important
   characters appear and you get
   a special badge, stating that
   you captured all the possible
   pokemon. That's all,
   unfortunately.

Q: Besides Manaphy's one, is
there any other mission to
unlock, via the
   password mode?
A: No, I don't think so.

Q: I'm trying to input a
password for the Manaphy mission
but I can't get it right. What
am I doing wrong? A: Probably
nothing, but be aware that there
are several different
   passwords that you need to
   input, depending on what
   region of the game you're
   playing. While a single one
   is used for the USA, at least
   two different ones were found
   for the European version, and
   if none of the ones stated in
   this guide work for you, it's
   probably because you have
   another version of the game.

You can also contribute your own
questions, if I find them
interesting I will add them to
this section.



ST~. Special Thanks

I want to thank the following
people:

- Everyone who made this game;

- Everyone who likes my works
  here on gamefaqs, it's for
  those people that I like to
  work in this type of project;

- People I know personally and
  that make me smile;

- http://www.serebii.net , for
  the information that was
  adapted and inserted in
  sections "Acquirable Pokemon
  and their moves" and "Pokemon
  Type", along with the proper
  translation of the City's
  names. If it wasn't for their
  help, I would have taken a lot
  more time writing this guide;

- greatfire , for correcting
  some of my mystakes in the
  pokemon list;

- Matthew Galvin, for
  information on how to capture
  Celebi, Mew and Deoxys in the
  American version of the game;

- Hayden, for information on the
  3 legendary Pokemon obtained
  from events;

- Cardz, for pointing out a typo
  and giving me an information I
  had forgotten to include;

- Tom, for pointing out what the
  Drowzee man was all about;

- Louis, for providing a lot of
  information in the American
  version of the game and
  correcting some of the
  problems in this guide;

- Ryan L., for correcting the
  location of Machamp;

- Everyone who mailed me asking
  about Porygon's location;

- Everyone I forgot to credit
  (if anyone at all...);

- BethanyM and CjayC, for
  inspiring me to continue
  working in this faq and in all
  other projects as well.



EN~. Contacts

If you want, you may see my web
page, just check it at the HTML
address
www.geocities.com/Mykas0/ .
Also, BEFORE MAILING ME BE SURE
TO READ THE WHOLE FAQ, since
your question may already be
covered in there. My e-mail is
Mykas0 [at] gmail.com , use the
following subject or I will
NEVER (AND I MEAN IT!) reply
back to you:

Subject: "PR FAQ"

You should use it for asking
anything or giving me more info
for this faq, obviously I will
credit you!

Thanks and until a next
version!!!!!!