***     ****    *  *  ****  *   
*  *   *    *   * *   *     **  
***   *      *  **    ****  * * 
*      *    *   * *   *     *  *
*       ****    *  *  ****  *   

**       *      *****    *   *
* *     * *    *         *   *
*  *   *****    *****    *****
* *   *     *        *   *   *
**   *       *  *****    *   *




Pokemon Dash FAQ by FunPika

Current version: 1.2

------------------------------
Table Of Contents:
------------------------------
1. Introduction
2. Version History
3. The Races
  3.1. Training
  3.2. Grand Prix
 3.2.1. Green Cup
 3.2.2. White Cup
 3.2.3. Blue Cup
 3.2.4. Yellow Cup
 3.2.5. Red Cup
4. Pads, Balloons, and Lapras
  3.1. Pads
  3.2. Balloons and Lapras
5. GBA Pokemon RPG cups
6. Copyright Stuff
7. Email info

Note: To find a specific section
of this FAQ use ctrl+f then type
in the section number.

------------------------------
1. Introduction
------------------------------

This is my first FAQ. I will
include tips to help newbies to
this game out. I was confused
sometimes about playing this
game when I first got it
(especially with navigating the
races). But if your new to this
game and confused, now you will
understand better how to enjoy
Pokemon Dash!


------------------------------
2. Version History
------------------------------

0.85- This is the first version
  of the FAQ. Mostly everything
  I need for
version 1.0 is ready.

1.2- Forget 1.0. I am going
  straight to 1.2. Now there is
  some multi-player
info, training mode routes, and
Green Cup routes.

UPCOMING VERSION: 1.6: The next
version I will write will be
1.6. Basically I will be adding
White/Blue cup routes.


------------------------------
3. The Races
------------------------------

This section of the FAQ will
explain the races in this game.

The races will be put into more
detail throughout the next few
updates.


------------------------------
3.1. Training
------------------------------

Now I will give brief
explanations for all the
Training Races.

Note: You will be forced to do
this the first time you turn on
Pokemon Dash. Then you may do it
whenever you want via the main
menu.

Practice 1:

This race is pretty simple. Race
on the brick path while reading
explanations in the training
race.

Reccomended Route: From the
Start go North to the first 2
checkpoints. Then proceed East
for checkpoint 3. Go North from
there for checkpoints 4 and 5.
Go west then North for the goal.


Practice 2:

This race will explain the
landscapes. Grass, sand, and
forest will slow you down. You
CAN NOT cut through the ocean.
Quickly cutting through swamps
is acceptable. You can quickly
go through a swamp but if you
take too long you will drown
(that will delay you and
possibly cause you to lose).

Reccomended Route: From the
start go North for the first 4
checkpoints. You will go into a
forest, on grass, and on sand to
reach thest checkpoints. Follow
the coastline to reach the 5th
checkpoint. Head East for
checkpoint 6 then a little more
east then northeast for
checkpoint 7. Then just go north
through a swamp and you have
reached the goal!

Practice 3:

In this race, you will step on
special pads to get you through
the landscapes from practice 2
easier. No pad will get you
through the ocean though. This
is where you use Lapras. Lapras
will quickly get you across the
ocean.

Reccomended Route: Just head
North! You will once again enjoy
the wonders of landscapes. There
will be forest, sand, and swamp
padsready for you to use to get
through the forests, beaches,
and swamps easier. Then comes
the ocean. Just use Lapras and
go North.


Practice 4:

In this Training Race, you can
learn about the balloons in this
game. You will use the balloons
to go from island to island in
the race. Pay close attention to
your arrow and radar during this
race.

Tip: You can pop your balloons
with the stylus while landing to
make you go faster.

Reccomended route: Head North
for the first checkpoint. Then
just a little east to get a
balloon, proceed north while
using the balloon until you are
over and island like the one on
your radar. After the checkpoint
proceed north on that island to
get a balloon. Use it to go
southeast to another island on
your radar. After going a little
southeast on that island to get
another balloon, you can head
north with the balloons to
finish this race.

Practice 5:

This is like Practice 4 but you
learn more about popping
balloons (like when you should
NOT pop them and where NOT to
land).

Reccomended route: Just head
north! Go from island to island
with the balloons and you can
get through this easy!

------------------------------
3.2. Grand Prix
------------------------------

The Grand Prix races will be
explained now. Good luck with
these races!


------------------------------
3.2.1. Green Cup
------------------------------

The races in the Green Cup will
be explained here. The races in
this cup are similar to the
Practice Races.

Race 1: Green Fields:

This race is like a combo of
Practice 1 and 2. Just follow
the radar, brick path, and
arrows and you will be fine.

Reccomended Route: Follow the
brick path for the first 6
checkpoints. Then head east for
then southeast for the 2nd last
checkpoint. From there go south
and you will reach the goal!

Race 2: Running Through:

This race is like Practice 2.
After the 3rd checkpoint run
around the ocean area to get to
a brick path and the 4th
checkpoint. After that you may
have to go from the brick path
to landscapes (grass and forest)
and back to win this race.

Reccomended Route: First head
north to reach the first
checkpoint. Then head northwest
to reach checkpoint 2.
Checkpoint 3 is just southwest.
To get tcheckpoint 4 go south on
the coastline then west. Follow
the brick path to get to the
next 2 checkpoints. Then
continue to follow the brick
path until you see a checkpoint
in the grass. Goto it then get
back on the path. Just head East
to get to the next 3
checkpoints. Then follow the
brick path to victory!



Race 3: Beach Path:

This race is like Practice 3.
Follow the radar/arrows and get
the necessary pads and you will
win this race.

Reccomended Route: First head
north for the first check point.
Then get the grass pad and go
around the sand area. From there
go east for checkpoint 2. Head
northwest for checkpoint 3. Head
north through the forest for the
next 3 checkpoints (there is a
forest pad just past checkpoint
3). Proceed southeast to get a
sand pad and get to the next
checkpoint. Head south to reach
the next checkpoint. Then head
south, go around the right side
of the water and you will reach
the goal.

Race 4: Footprint of Mankey:

This race is like Practice 4.
Use balloons to navigate the
area. Balloons are usually a
short distance from goals.

Reccomended Route: Head North to
reach the first checkpoint and
balloon. Then use the balloon to
reach the next goal on an island
to the northeast. From
checkpoint 2 go southeast for a
balloon then go southeast with
the balloon. Go around the water
near checkpoint 3 like in
running through to reach
checkpoint 4. Then go south on
the brick path for balloons and
proceed northwest. From the next
goal just get the balloons and
proceed northeast. Head south
with balloons to the next
island. Then head north to
Pikachu island.

Race 5: Pikachu Island:

This race is a combo of Practice
3, 4, and 5. You use pads,
balloons, and Lapras to navigate
the area. Like on the Footprint
of Mankey Course, the last goal
is on a Pikachu shaped island.

Reccomended Route: Head north
for checkpoint 1 and balloons.
Then use the balloons to head
south to checkpoint 2. Lapras
will help you reach checkpoint 3
(head southeast). From there use
balloons to get northeast. From
the goal there, just run east.
Use balloons to get northwest to
a beach island. From there go
east to a lapras. Ride it top
the northern part of the island
for the next goal. Then just
head southeast to Pikachu island
to finish the race!

You've completed the Green Cup!
Congratulations!


------------------------------
3.2.2. White Cup
------------------------------

Now that you have done the Green
Cup, you've unlocked the White
Cup! Wonderful! This is the
WHITE Cup because of all the ice
around here. Now do these races
to get the Blue Cup. Here comes
the race explanations!

Race 1: White Snow land:

This course introduces the ice
terrain. Balloons and pads will
play a major part in this race.
As usual trust
yourself/radar/arrow and you
will be fine. Also use any trick
you can think of you beat your
opponents and claim 1st place.

Tip: One Balloon pop will allow
you to land on ice landscapes
faster.

Race 2: Trial Swamp:

Use your balloons wisely here.
There are also pads and a Lapras
available in this race. Good
luck!

Reminder: Short Range Swamp run
throughs are possible without
Swamp Pad.

Race 3: Lake of Mystery:

This is just another course of
use balloons, pads, and Lapras
to navigate. One of the goals is
on an island with nothing but
forest. Use Lapras to get there
whether you have balloons ready
or not.

Race 4: Cracked Plains:

This race can be navigated in a
way similar to that of Lake of
Mystery. Remember to use your
balloons wisely and trust the
arrows and radar.

Race 5: Luvdisc Island:

I HIGHLY recommend that you be
careful how you use your
balloons here. Other than that
this course is similar to the
rest here.

Yay! Another Cup complete! Onto
the Blue Cup!


------------------------------
3.2.3. Blue Cup
------------------------------

After beating the White Cup this
is your next destination. Lets
begin the races!

Race 1: Zigzag Road:

In this area you finally get a
break from having to use
balloons so much. Just use them
a couple times and use Lapras
once. Simple! There is easy
landscape as well.

Race 2: Steering Stream:

You can get lost here! Back to
the wonders of using a few
Balloons, pads, and Lapras to
navigate.

Race 3: Mud Plateau:

Finally some Swamp action! Most
of this course is same old same
old. But near the end you will
get a forest pad to go into the
forest. Then go back for a swamp
pad to get through a couple
swamps to finish the race. Good
luck!

Race 4: Star Lake:

The return of ice! Ice and swamp
pads are around this area.
Because there are also swamps in
this course.

Reminder: Only use one pop to
speed up Ice landscape landings.

Race 5: Jirachi Island:

You may get lost here. If you
get seriously lost just follow
your opponents for a few
seconds. More ice is around here
also.

Congrats! You are more than
halfway through all the races in
the game! Just 2 more cups to
go! We are off to the Yellow
Cup!


------------------------------
3.2.4. Yellow Cup
------------------------------

The 2nd to last cup is here! 10
races left total! Come on you
can complete this! Just a little
more work...

Race 1: Smeargle's Mark:

Tons of water and islands. Some
goals are in the middle of the
ocean. Lapras is of course the
solution. Balloons are needed as
well to navigate this area.

Race 2: Lava Island:

As the name implies, this place
is full of Lava. Go in that and
you WILL get burned. The worst
part is...there are goals in the
middle of the lava! Fortunately
there are lava pads ready now.
As usual Balloon transport is
efficient.

Race 3: Glacier Island:

Ice, balloons, and
hills...sounds easy to get
lost...well it is! I got lost a
couple times myself in this
course. Just trust your radar to
find balloons. And there is
always the retry button if you
need it.

Race 4: Sand Island:

It is just another basic course
that you use balloons, Lapras,
and pads to navigate. Not so
easy to get lost.

Race 5: Pallet Island:

Another course with lava in it.
But not much fortunately.
Remember to use a lava pad!
There is water and Laprases as
well.

4 cups down! One to go! Onto the
Red Cup!


------------------------------
3.2.5. Red Cup
------------------------------

This is the FINAL CUP! Just 5
more races! You can do it! There
are a couple prizes other than
trophies at the end of this one!

Race 1: Twiddle Meadow:

Yet another dumb balloon/Lapras
navigation course...except for
the end. There is a big swamp.
First cross over the goal from
the north part. The last goal
will be accessed after getting a
Swamp pad on the southern end of
the swamp.

Race 2: Heat Island:

Oh it is so hot here! All that
lava...Well we are going to use
Lava Pads here! As usual
Balloons will be used as well.
But be ready for bottomless
pits, hills, and lava.

Race 3: Vortex Lagoon:

Okay...just one of those use
Lapras/pads/balloons to navigate
courses AGAIN! It is kinda easy
to get lost around here so be
careful.

Race 4: Freezing Spiral:

Ice, fire, and water, wonderful.
Other than that it is the same
old navigational style. Not easy
to get lost here.

Race 5: Pokemon Park Island:

THE FINAL RACE! You made it this
far! Don't give up now! All
kinds of landscape exist here.
Then it is Balloon navigation.


YOU HAVE BEATEN ALL 5 CUPS!
CONGRATS! Enjoy the credits and
the GBA Pokemon RPG feature
(Pokemon shaped courses created
by the Pokemon GBA games)(more
info in part 5 of this FAQ).

------------------------------
4. Pads, Balloons, and Lapras
------------------------------

This section will let you learn
about Pads, Balloons, and
Lapras.

------------------------------
4.1. Pads
------------------------------

The kinds of pads in this game
are as follow:


Grass Pad: Gives a speed boost
on grass landscape.

Sand Pad: Gives a speed boost on
sand landscape.

Forest Pad: Gives a speed boost
on forest landscape.

Swamp Pad: Gives a speed boost
on swamp landscape and prevents
drowning in swamps.

Ice Pad: Gives a speed boost on
ice landscape.

Rock Pad: Gives a speed boost on
rock landscape.

Lava Pad: Gives a speed boost on
lava landscape and prevents
burning in lava.


------------------------------
4.2. Balloons and Lapras
------------------------------

Balloons let you float to
anywhere in a course but there
certain things to learn:

1. Don't pop over brick paths.
2. Only pop once over ice
   landscape.
3. You can't land in the forest
   or ocean.

Lapras is good for getting from
island to island and reaching
water goals.


------------------------------
5. GBA Pokemon RPG Cups
------------------------------

After beating all 5 cups you can
put in you GBA Pokemon RPG games
to make special cups based on
your Pokemon teams. You just do
this alone. The amount of time
(there is a time limit) you have
to do the cup depends on high
leveled your Pokemon are. For
example 6 level 60s would get
you a full 6 minutes. There are
2 goals for each Pokemon.

------------------------------
6. Multiplayer info
------------------------------

Basically to do multiplayer
first you select multiplayer
then select become leader or
join group. A leader may choose
the cup and course to race on.
There is only multi-pak play in
this game. Enjoy racing your
friends!

------------------------------
7. Copyright Stuff
------------------------------

This Faq is Copyright 2006
FunPika.

Sites Currently allowed to host
this FAQ:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/
http://www.neoseekers.com/

Pokemon Dash the game was
published by Nintendo and
developed by Ambrella.

E-mail me if you want this FAQ
on your site.

------------------------------
8. Email Info
------------------------------

If you want to help me improve
this or make comments you may
email me at

funpika4@gmail.com

Don't send me anything offensive
please.

Thanks in advance!