GAME CENTER CX: ARINO NO
CHOUSENJOU [Arino's Challenge]

FAQ/Walkthrough by Molokidan
(molokidan@gmail.com)

=CONTENTS=
1. Update History [U]
2. Introduction [I]
3. Menu [M]
4. Games [G]
5. Cosmic Gate [C]
6. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman [K1]
7. Rally King [R1]
8. Star Prince [S]
9. Rally King SP [R2]
10. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman 2
    [K2]
11. Guadia Quest [Q]
 -Spell List [L]
12. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman 3
    [K3]
 -Gear List [GR]
13. Ending [E]
14. Special Thanks [T]

=Update History= [U]

v1.1: 2/11/8 - I've added
detailed info. on how to clear
each game, rewritten some
inconsistent info, and added the
section detailing the ending.
All I really have left now is to
add other secrets when I find
them and optional stuff for each
game.

v1.0: 2/8/8 - This first version
contains info on all the games
and their respective challenges,
and how to clear the entire game
itself. It's just missing
detailed information on fully
clearing each game, which I hope
to add eventually.

=Introduction= [I]

GCCX:ANC is an awesome DS game
designed for anyone, but it
should really strike home to
fans of retro gaming, as it
contains tons of tongue-in-cheek
humor about the industry and
lots of throwback to titles and
trends from the 80s, mainly from
8-bit NES games. The concept of
the game itself comes from a
popular Japanese game show
called Game Center CX, in which
people are subjected to
different 'challenges' based
around extremely hard classic
games, such as Ghouls'n'Ghosts,
Super Mario Bros. 2 (The Lost
Levels), The Quest of Ki, etc.
Basically hard games. The
results are usually hilarious,
so I really recommend the show
to any fan of Japanese/gaming
humor.

Enough about that. This game
starts with Arino, the host of
Game Center CX, coming to you as
a rather strange disembodied
virtual head. This time, for the
next in his long string of
sadistic 'challenges,' he's
decided to turn you, the player,
into a child, and send you back
to the 80s in order to play a
bunch of games and complete
challenges. It's pretty hokey,
but that's the point. The game
starts, and on the bottom
screen, you'll be faced with the
area your character will stay in
for the rest of the entire
game...(young) Arino's room. The
games you play on his TV,
however, will take you on a
quest of classic gaming spanning
8 different titles.

This game is a lot of fun, and I
love it, although personally, I
thought the difficulty of the
challenges was pretty easy, and
any seasoned gamer will have no
trouble in unlocking all the
games within a single day.
Clearing the games themselves is
a different story, but I do
think it would have been funner
if the challenges had been
harder, really requiring you to
develop strategies while you try
over and over again to achieve
something...much like classic
NES games and the insanely
difficult games featured on the
actual TV show.

=MENU= [M]

Main Menu -

The main menu of the game is set
on a black space backdrop, with
four options, two of which have
to be unlocked. The first is a
new game, and the second is
continue. The 'game' itself is
playing the different games, so
it can get a bit confusing since
you end up playing a game within
a game. Your best bet is just to
start one game and keep going,
there's no need to restart your
entire data unless you want to
do the challenges over again.
The third option, which you get
from completing all of the main
challenges, is Free Play, where
you can set high scores. One
thing to remember here, however,
is that the codes you can use
when completing the challenges
won't work in this mode. The
last option is the Sound menu,
which you receive after clearing
each game once.

Arino's Room Menu -

When you press A in Arino's
room, you'll open up a menu from
which you can do different
things.

First Option: Choose a game.
This'll take you to the game
shelf in Arino's room, where you
can select which title you want
to play. When you have one title
on the screen, you can also look
through the instruction booklet
before you play the actual game.
This is usually a good idea, as
it'll tell you about all the
features each game has, most of
which are not obvious after
playing for the first time. All
you have to do is press A again
to start the actual game.

Second Option: Read Game Fan
magazines. As you progress,
Arino will buy more copies of
Game Fan, a magazine that will
feature news on upcoming games
as well as give you codes to use
on the games you have. Other
than that it'll have mini-
walkthroughs to help you
complete challenges, talk about
game secrets, and other funny
stuff. (Translations of these
coming soon?)

Third Option: Memo Pad. This is
an option that will allow you to
write things down using the DS
Pen on sheets of note paper. If
you're at home, this is kind of
useless because you can use real
paper, but I can see how it'd
come in handy if you're playing
on the go.

Fourth Option: Converse with
Arino. You can talk to him and
he'll give you general
information about the challenge
you're on, although most of the
time he just refers you to the
Game Fan magazines.

Fifth Option: Quit. This'll quit
the game, but before Arino will
allow you to save your progress
and even continue playing if you
want. But you don't have to
worry about losing all your
progress if you choose quit.

=GAMES= [G]

There are eight different games
that you'll be able to unlock
throughout the course of the
game. If you want details on how
to play the games, beat the
challenges, etc, go to the
individual game section in this
guide and everything will
(eventually) be detailed out.
Here's the list of the games,
and my rating out of five stars.
The next game will be unlocked
by completing the four
challenges on the previous game.

When you're playing games, you
can reset them by holding R+B.
(This comes in handy when trying
to complete tricky challenges.)

If you press L+X while playing
the games, it will return your
control to the room on the lower
screen. During this, if you
press R+B you will shut off the
entire game console, so be
careful. But this way you can
access the room menu while in
the middle of a game.

1. Cosmic Gate (Space
   Invaders/Galaga-type shooter)
   ***
2. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman
   (Mario/Bubble Bobble-type
   platformer) ****
3. Rally King (Racing) ***
4. Star Prince (1942-type
   shooter) *****
5. Rally King SP **
6. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman 2
   ****
7. Guadia Quest (RPG) *****
8. Karakuri Ninja Haguruman 3
   *****

After you complete all the
challenges for the games, you'll
be able to do the 'final
challenge,' which is basically
to clear all eight games, all
the way through to the end. Once
you beat that, you'll get a
surprise.

=COSMIC GATE= [C]

Alright, the first game: Cosmic
Gate. The rules should be pretty
self-explanatory, as you just
move left and right and shoot
the aliens. Every three or so
levels you will go through an
asteroid field, where you can
rack up points (or get hit by an
asteroid and die). This is a
great game to start with, as it
is the most 'basic' out of the
eight games included, and really
harkens back to the days of
Atari and simple gaming.
Especially hilarious is the
congratulations you get from
beating the asteroid levels:
"YOU SHOOTED ## ASTEROIDS."

SPECIAL CONTROLS:

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

On the title screen, press DOWN,
DOWN, B, B, A, A to access "Hard
Mode."

TIP #1: Once and a while, one of
the enemies will drop a power-
up, so try to grab it. Although,
the power-ups aren't that
amazing, so don't go suicidal or
anything trying to get it.

TIP #2: One-ups will also drop,
but they look like tomatoes
(since this game's developer is
'TOMATO'). Definitely grab
these!!

TIP #3: During the asteroid
level, once and a while huge
asteroids will float by, so try
to shoot these and destroy them,
as you get a ton of points. If
you can't get under them
immediately, however, just don't
even bother trying, you'll just
get squashed. You have to be on
the lookout for them and get in
range quickly in order to shoot
them up before they contact you.

TIP #4: There are also warps.
These are a must for trying to
clear the entire game, as they
can cut down the number of
stages you need to clear by a
lot, and make it much easier.
Basically, when a new wave of
enemies fly in, there will be
one enemy blinking white. If
you're aiming for the warp, then
don't shoot ANY OTHER enemies,
or that special enemy will stop
blinking, and you won't be able
to get that warp anymore.
Instead, either shoot the enemy
when it first comes in, or wait
until you have an opportune
moment to shoot it once it lines
up. Once you shoot the blinking
enemy, a warp hole will appear
in a corner of the screen. Now,
while dodging enemy fire, you
have to shoot the warp zone
repeatedly until it grows big
enough and sucks you in.

CHALLENGE #1: Clear Stage 5.

This challenge is easy, and
rightly so, as it's the first
challenge in the entire game.
Basically, you just need to
survive through stage 5, it
doesn't matter if you die or
anything. Just get past it
somehow. You can use warps,
although it isn't necessary.

CHALLENGE #2: Warp Twice.

This is a bit more tricky, as it
requires you to use active not
just one, but two warp gates in
a single run. Well, the warp
zones get harder to activate as
the levels go up, so your best
bet in this case is to simply
activate the first two warp
zones that you possibly can.
Check out Tip #4 out there to
learn the finer arts of
activating warp zones. The first
warp will take you to level 3,
which is an asteroid field, so
just survive through that and
them get to Level 4, where you
can activate your second warp.
Once you do that, the challenge
will be complete. If you somehow
just mess up, it's easier just
to reset then keep trying, as
level 1 has the easiest warp to
access.

CHALLENGE #3: Destroy a giant
asteroid.

In my opinion, this is easier
than challenge two, since you
really only have to do one
thing, which isn't too
difficult. There are two main
ways to go about this: use the
warp in level 1 to go straight
to the asteroid field, and then
find the big asteroid and
destroy it, if you can...or, you
can skip the warp, go to level
2, and pick up the power-up.
There's a fairly high chance in
level 2 that an enemy will drop
one, and this will make your
asteroid-hunting a bit easier
since you'll have more power in
your shots. Whichever way you
want to do it is up to you, just
make sure that when you're in
the asteroid field your eyes are
toward the upper part of the
screen and watching for a big
hunk of rock. Keep in mind that
there are three sizes of
asteroids: the tiny pebble ones,
the normal-sized ones, and then
the big ones that only come
about 1 or 2 per level. It's the
big one that you need to blow
up.

CHALLENGE #4: Score 200,000
points.

This is the only relatively
'challenging' challenge in
Cosmic Gate, really, and it's
only because it requires you to
survive for a longer period of
time than what you're used to.
You may find yourself having to
get to Level 10-15 (this is
without using warps of course)
in order to achieve such a high
score, but it isn't impossible
or even relatively difficult, as
long as you get a rhythm in your
shots. Getting power-ups here is
pretty important as although
your normal shots don't get
stronger, what happens is that
once every few shots you'll
shoot what looks like a big
rocket, and this has the ability
to slice through entire lines of
enemies, racking up combos that
multiply the scores you get from
enemies. This is the key in
getting high scores. Also, this
goes without saying, but
shooting the big asteroids will
net you lots of points as well.
Once you get past the initial
swarm of enemies in each level
and they start to move around
one-by-one, just dodge them --
don't try to go for them when
they loop around towards the
bottom of the screen, it isn't
worth it and usually ends up in
death. There really isn't much
more to say about this, just
keep on firing and try not to
die.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

There are 64 stages in total,
and of course you can get
through the game level by level,
but that can get old fast. Using
warps is fine, although most
warps only shoot you three
levels ahead. Here's the fastest
way, which I found on the
Japanese GGCX wiki:

2 -> 5 -> 13 -> 17 -> 29 -> 37
-> 41 -> 53 -> 61.

That way you don't have go
through all 64 stages at once.


=KARAKURI NINJA HAGURUMAN= [K1]

Alright, time for the second
game. Haguruman is kind of like
the ultimate mix between Mario,
Megaman, and Bubble Bobble --
you can stomp on your enemies to
kill them, you can shoot things
at them, but you are also
confined within rooms and have
to fight bosses once you kill
all the enemies. It's also a bit
like Ghouls'n'Ghosts in that you
can take a single hit, but
another hit will kill you for
good. There are a few annoying
things about the game, but
overall it's pretty fun, and a
good break between Cosmic Gate
and Rally King. By the way,
about the name, Karakuri is a
word that commonly refers to
wind-up toys or clockwork
things, and then Haguruma means
cog-wheel, so it's a funny play
on words. A decent translation
would be "Wind-Up Ninja Cogman."

Special Controls:
A: Jump
B: Throw Shuriken
UP: Open Door
DOWN+A: Go through a floor panel

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

During the game, pause and press
DOWN, RIGHT, UP, LEFT, B four
times, A four times, and you'll
automatically gain three
scrolls.

TIP #1: You can only use
shuriken to stun enemies, but
you need to jump on them to
actually kill them. You never
run out of shuriken, though, so
it's safe to just keep firing
them all the time since enemies
can sometimes have unpredictable
jump/moving patterns.

TIP #2: You'll see weird multi-
colored doors around the levels
with Japanese kana on them. If
you press up in front of these
walls, you'll go inside them.
You can use this to hide from
enemies. If you come back out of
the doors, sometimes a scroll
will spawn. Try to collect the
scroll if you can, since
collecting three will summon a
helper who stuns all the enemies
on the screen for you.

TIP #3: Notice that when you go
through a door, all the same-
colored doors will open and
close simultaneously. You can
actually use this to stun
enemies far away from you if
they are in front of these same-
colored doors.

TIP #4: Once in a while
opening/closing a door will
spawn this golden shuriken that
will fly toward you. You CANNOT
defeat this by throwing
shurikens at it or jumping on
it, so all you can really do to
dodge it is jump out of the way
or go back into the door. Watch
out, because this can really
mess you up if enemies are
swarming you when it happens.

TIP #5: Don't confuse the evil
flying orange disc with the
normal powerups enemies drop --
you can grab those no problem,
and it's usually in your best
interest to do so.

CHALLENGE #1: Get a double kill
combo.

Alright, so getting a double
kill combo here just means you
have to jump on two enemies in a
row without touching the ground.
This can actually be harder on
later levels, where enemies take
more than one hit to kill, so I
strongly recommend staying on
the first level to get this
done, unless you're some kind of
masochist. The little green guys
you run into on the first level
only take one jump to kill and
can be stunned easily with the
shuriken, so they're your best
bet. Try to find two together,
wham 'em both with the shuriken,
and then hop to victory.

CHALLENGE #2: Clear Floor 3
without throwing a shuriken.

This can be pretty annoying,
since you have to rely simply on
your jumping skills alone to get
you through the levels. Don't
worry about grabbing power-ups
or getting scrolls, just jump,
jump, jump. The bosses don't
have much strategy to them,
although it's notable than the
red-armored samurai you run into
on the third level can't be
stunned by shuriken anyway, so
you aren't handicapped that
much. Just use the doors if you
get in trouble, (look at the
tips above for door strategy)
and time your jumps well. After
you a few tries you should able
to make it through.

CHALLENGE #3: Clear Floor 4
without dying.

Alright...this is where things
get tricky. You have to make it
through the first four levels
without dying a single time,
although the good part is that
you can use your shurikens
again. Integrate door hopping
into your natural strategy, just
go in and out of them while
throwing a bunch of shuriken to
keep yourself safe. I really
recommend gathering the scrolls
in every level, because it will
stun a bunch of enemies and
really make things safer for
you. Things can get pretty
problematic in stage 3, where
the red-armor guys who can't be
stunned start running around,
but your jumping skills should
be honed from challenge 2, so
you can do it (and you can still
stun them with the scrolls).
Throw the shurikens really fast
for the boss on Floor 4 since he
un-stuns himself rather quickly.

CHALLENGE #4: Clear Floor 8.

Arino's expectations for you are
now doubled, but you're allowed
to die, so this is actually
easily than the previous
challenge. If you get a game
over, remember to press
LEFT+START on the game over
screen to retry from the same
level. The dark blue/purplish
alligators can be real pains
because they jump rather
unexpectedly from levels below
you, and even if you try to
counter- jump, touching them
diagonally can hurt you. Again,
get power-ups, use scrolls,
etc...and enjoy the
'interesting' ending. Remind you
of anything?

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

After you clear the first 8
floors, you'll face the 'last'
boss and then have to do it all
over again, but with completely
different enemies. This time the
ninjas throw shurikens, the
skeleton heads breath fire, and
the samurai just act like jerks.
Surprisingly, though, the boss
is just as easy as last time,
and the 16th stage is the last
one. Pretty easy.


=RALLY KING= [R1]

Rally King......what can I say.
It's a crappy NES racing game,
they did an excellent job at
emulating all the awkward
controls and annoyances from
games like Outrun, F-1, etc. It
can be fun once you get the
controls down, but the first few
times you play you will most
likely get a little frustrated
at the interface.

Special Controls:

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

Press A right before the number
"2" comes up when the race
starts, and you'll get a start-
up boost.

During the game, let go of A for
a second, and then alternate
left and right to drift, which
result in a speed boost.

On the title screen, hold UP-
LEFT and then press select, and
your car will become invicible.
Note: This REALLY takes the
challenge out of the game, so
only use it if you're really fed
up.

On the title screen, hold DOWN-
LEFT and press select, and all
the rival cars in the races to
come will disappear. With this
code and the invici- bility
code, there's really no
challenge left in the game.

On the title screen, press A, B,
A, B. This will enable the stage
select code. If you press
UP+SELECT after that, you'll go
to Stage 2, LEFT+SELECT will
take you to Stage 3, and
DOWN+SELECT will take you to
Stage 4.

TIP #1: Drift. It's not really a
requirement, as I've gotten 1st
place in races only drifting
once or twice, but it can come
and handy and is required to
complete the first challenge. It
will take some getting used to,
but if you've played any version
of Mario Kart then it will most
likely come easy to you. Just
take your finger off A for a
second then put it back on, and
move left and right on the
control pad to spin your car a
little bit. If it's working, you
should see more and more white
smoke come out. Keep in mind
that if you drift too far in one
direction, you'll ruin your
momentum and won't get the power
boost. This is why it's only
good to drift on curves when
your car is already swerving, or
on long straightaways.

TIP #2: Be really careful in
this game, as there is no map to
tell you when a curve is coming
-- all you have is a tiny little
blinking icon at the top which
will give you a vague indication
is to what the next curve will
be like. Often times there are
hidden paths that you'll want to
take instead, so knowing the ins
and outs of each course is
imperative to doing well on
them.

TIP #3: Just stay away from
other cars, as even nudging them
will do damage to you. Most of
them are pretty slow, so just
ignore them.

TIP #4: There are two power-ups,
and both of them look like ghost
cars. The first power-up has a
little Pt icon, and will give
you bonus points. Useless unless
you're trying to complete the
point challenge, so don't waste
time going for it otherwise. THe
other power-up, which is much
rarer, has a heart icon, and
will refill your life to FULL!
If you accidentally pass it up,
it may be a good idea to slow
down and let it catch up to you
so you can nab it, because death
occurs quite often in Rally
King.

TIP #5: There are weird wavy
circles that you'll encounter on
each map, and these are by far
the most annoying obstacle,
because if you run over them
they'll cause you to spin out.
There are the black dots as
well, but you can go over them
fine with minimal slow down, and
you won't even take damage. Just
watch out for banging into walls
and the spin-outs, which often
results in you crashing into
other cars and taking more
damage.

CHALLENGE #1: Drift twice.

Just start out the game, don't
worry about winning or anything,
you don't even need to win the
first race to complete this.
It's all about getting used to
drifting, so look at my drifting
tip up above and do your best to
drift and get two speed boosts,
and you're done.

CHALLENGE #2: Clear Course 1.

Keep in mind you just have to
clear it, it doesn't matter what
place you get. So just take your
time and try not to die, watch
the top icon closely so that you
know what kind of curve is
coming up. Your time doesn't
matter either, so it's better
not to gun it and be careful not
to crash into walls. You have to
go around the entire course
twice to clear it.

CHALLENGE #3: Get 5th Place or
higher in Course 2.

A very annoying challenge, as it
first requires you to not only
clear Course 1, but get 5th or
higher in Course 1 just so that
you can go to Course 2. On
Course 1, I usually pass up the
first 10 cars on average on the
first lap, so that will leave
you with a lot of wiggle room on
the second lap to allow you to
place and move on. Be careful,
but by now you should be
accustomed to the course enough
to know where the dangerous
spots are. Course 2 is an
entirely different story,
though, as it's a desert full of
traps, annoying curves, and just
generally frustrating aspects.
On your first try, just try to
take note of particularly
hazardous spots so that you know
how to get around them as fast
as possible. There are a lot of
shortcuts in this level, and
towards the end it will open up
and there will be three
different paths for you to
follow. The easiest thing to do
is stay to the left or the
center path if you can. If you
place lower than five, it will
allow you to try again. But if
you get a game over...you have
to start back from Course 1.

CHALLENGE #4: Score 15,000
points.

Way easier than the last
challenge, you probably won't
even need to go to Course 2 to
complete this. The key to this
challenge is to take the
straight- away shortcut in
Course 1. It's around the middle
area of the track where there is
a sharp right curve. Instead of
curving right, just head
forward, and you'll see a panda
face appear that will reward you
with 10,000 points. The rest of
the points can be gained from
the floating cars in the level.
If you need help finding the
panda face, check the Game Fan
magazines, as one issue has a
screenshot.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

Thankfully, there are only 4
courses in the game. The first
two are pretty much covered in
the above challenges -- course 3
is the toughest one by far, with
tons of stuff for you to smack
into, you'll be dying for life
by the time the second lap comes
around. Just be careful, and
remember that once you pass a
car as long as you're moving at
a decent speed (you don't have
to be going super fast or even
drifting) they won't pass you
up. Course 3 is a bit different
from course 4, which only has a
few surprises that should only
trick you once and is much
easier to navigate. There really
isn't much to this game, it's
pretty easy to finish in one
playthrough.

=STAR PRINCE= [S]

This is the first of the super
awesome games featured in GCCX
that I would have love to have
owned when I was a kid. It's a
shooter, but now you can move
around, get different power-ups,
kill tons of crazy mechanical
enemies, and just have a great
time. Get your trigger finger
ready and dive in!

Special Controls:
WITHOUT THE TURBO CONTROLLER-
A: Fire.
Hold B: Shield.
WITH THE TURBO CONTROLLER-
A/B: Shield. (Hold either one)
Hold Y: Rapidfire.

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

On the title screen, hold UP and
then press A three times, then
hold DOWN and press B three
times to become invincible for
the entire game.

Powerups: B: Gives you two
additional lasers behind you. P:
Gives you two additional
diagonal lasers. M: Gives you
missiles that explode in the air
occasionally. S: Best powerup
IMO, it gives you two huge
lasers that demolish anything in
front of you.

TIP #1: They added another depth
of difficulty in this game in
that the space you can move is
wider than the DS screen itself.
This means that you'll have to
move horizontally every once in
a while in order to find special
power-ups and the PRINCE letters
in order to get the bonus
points.

TIP #2: Don't be afraid to use
the shield, especially in higher
levels where the sheer amount of
bullets on the screen reaches
Ikaruga-ish levels of insanity.

TIP #3: Always go for the S
powerup, it's the best one, and
try to avoid the others as
they'll downgrade your weapon.
You can shoot them instead and
they will act as bombs and give
you points.

TIP #4: Sometimes it can be hard
to figure out exactly what
you're supposed to shoot at on
bosses and the like...so the
best strategy is just to go nuts
and move left/right a lot.

TIP #5: You get special point
bonuses for destroying whole
sections of machinery, so use
that to your advantage when
going for high scores.

CHALLENGE #1: Defeat the
miniboss in Area 1.

This is very easy, as it doesn't
even require you to make it
through the whole stage. The
boss of Area 1 is a huge multi-
armed flying robot, so just go
to town on it and rip it to
pieces. The red brain in the
center is how you kill it, but
just take out the laser cannons
around it beforehand, because it
has quite a bit of health.

CHALLENGE #2: Find the 1up in
Area 1.

This is more the game forcing
you to look in the magazine than
anything else. You can either go
through the level blasting up
everything you see until you
find it, or just look in the
Game Fan magazine you get right
before this to find a screenshot
of the area in which the 1up is
hidden. Whichever way you do it,
this is still pretty simple.
After you complete this
challenge, Arino will present
you with the turbo controller,
and that's when things really
heat up.

CHALLENGE #3: Beat the boss in
Area 2.

With the turbo controller, you
can hold Y for rapidfire, so
things are much easier to handle
now. At the end of Area 1 there
is a golden sort of contraption,
when you see it, get OUT of the
center of the screen, as it will
summon one of its parts from
below the screen, and this thing
will smash into you instantly
and kill you. For the boss of
Area 1, watch it for when it
charges up and releases its
laser cannon. Area 2, much like
the second course in Rally King,
is kind of desert-themed, but
there aren't really any
surprises here, and the boss has
no tricks to him.

CHALLENGE #4: Score 250000
points.

If you're good at blowing things
up (which you should be by now)
you probably won't even have to
go past Area 2 to get this one.
Just destroy entire sections of
machinery to get point bonuses.
One great place to do this is on
Area 1, where there are lines of
those green orbs on the left and
right sides of the screen. Just
alternate between sides with
your gun and blow them to bits,
while dodging enemy fire when
necessary. It shouldn't be too
hard to get your points up.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

Okay, time for you to go all
out.

Area 1 -

If you're trying to beat the
game without using codes (which
is entirely possible) then of
course you're going to want to
conserve lives on this easy
level. Use this one to practice
your shield utilization
techniques, because you will
need it later. If a ship hits
your shield it will block the
ship, but you will also become
vulnerable for a half-second,
which is all the time a laser
needs to slide in and hit you,
so take note of that. I
recommend getting the S power-up
in this level, as it is easily
accessible, and then just
shooting the rest of the power-
ups to knock out enemies and get
points.

Area 2 -

This one isn't hard at all, just
watch out at the end when you're
in space and a bunch of enemies
come and shoot lasers non-stop.
This is the time to hold your
shield up. Your ship will absorb
the lasers Ikaruga-style and
automatically launch a massive
attack back at them. The boss is
basically the same as it was in
Area 1.

Area 3 -

TONS of stuff to destroy in this
level, so hopefully you have the
best power-up. There is another
gold robot immediately at the
beginning, so just keep your
shield up because it will try
and surprise you with its parts.
The boss at the end is a
slightly speedier version of the
previous two, watch out as its
laser cannon comes up suddenly
sometimes.

Area 4 -

The mini-boss in this level
shoots a lot of lasers, so
you'll want to utilize your
shield. Watch out, though,
because it throws in those
blinking green orbs which will
knock out your shield. The end
part of this level is a big
problem because you have tons of
lasers and ships coming at you
at the same time, so keep your
shield up so you can take them
out fast. The boss at the end of
this stage is pretty tough...the
problem here are the huge yellow
lasers it shoots, as they have
the ability to hiccup your
shield. The tiny ones also make
blocking the twin laser cannons
much harder than it should be.
Take out the small ones first so
you don't have to worry about
any little lasers. The big laser
cannons can take a while to
shave down, so just keep your
eyes on the circle around their
cores, as it will show you when
it's about to let loose the
laser cannon. If you die, pick
up the S powerup at the spawn
point rather than the B, it's
much more helpful against this
boss. When you beat the outer
six turrents the center will
open up and start shooting a
super fast laser -- this is
where the S powerup comes in
handy. You can just sit to the
side and shoot it diagonally.
Otherwise, you're going to have
to weave in and out pretty fast,
but the P's strength makes up
for that.

After you defeat the boss, much
to your surprise, the game gives
you a puzzling message and
starts you over again. Now you
have to go through a harder
version of all four stages,
although the difficulty hasn't
increased that much. It doesn't
really become a problem under
Area 3 and 4, where stuff starts
swarming you from all sides. If
you can get through these four
stages without a continue, you
are a true 'Star Prince.'


=RALLY KING SP= [R2]

Just when you thought it was
over...! Yes, that's right. An
entire "new" edition of Rally
King, and look how great it is!
Indeed, this game shows how hard
the developers have been working
on the original Rally King, with
tons of new improvements and
content...wait, what am I
talking about? They just colored
the desert blue! And the first
level is exactly the same!!!
Yes, this is more of a joke
parodying "Special" versions of
games, especially since it
features its own cup ramen
sponsor, that annoys you in
between races with its
advertisements. There's nothing
new at all about this, so get
ready to rev up your engines
again. Refer to the
tips/controls for the original
Rally King if you need to, as
everything is EXACTLY THE SAME.

CHALLENGE #1: Finish Course 1
without drifting.

Super easy, since it doesn't
matter what place you get in.
Just go through it normally and
you should be clear in no time.

CHALLENGE #2: Finish Course 2
within 2:28.

This is pretty tough. The blue
graphics are off-putting, and
the overall course itself is
just frustrating. You're going
to want to go super fast so that
you can make it in time, but
that can sometimes result in
your crashing into walls or
other cars due to your high
speed. I've done a few runs for
this, and even spinning out and
crashing once or twice, I've
finished the race at around
2:15~2:25. Be careful, because
if you somehow get into places
1-5 but are over 2:28, it will
send you ahead to Course 3 and
you won't be able to retry the
challenge, so at that point it'd
be better just to commit suicide
so at least you won't have to do
Course 1 all over again. This is
a really annoying challenge, and
sucks the rest of the fun out of
what isn't exactly the best game
ever to begin with.

CHALLENGE #3: Get a start boost.

This is almost like a reward for
passing the difficult second
challenge, as it's something you
can most likely do easily by now
(and probably something you
utilized to clear the second
challenge.) Just press A right
before the number '2' appears
when you begin.

CHALLENGE #3: Beat Course 3.

You can take your time and go
through safely, or just ram
through and get to Course 3 with
little trouble if you have the
right codes.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

This game is exactly the same as
the original Rally King...no
increase in difficulty, no extra
tracks...nothing. It's probably
the easiest game to clear.


=KARAKURI NINJA HAGURUMAN 2= [K2

Haguruman gets a nice upgrade --
now the levels are much wider,
you can choose when to use the
special you get from the
scrolls, and much more enemies
inhabit the levels. The
challenges aren't that more
difficult, but the game will
take a few tries to truly get
the hang of it again.

SPECIAL CONTROLS:

Once you've collected three
scrolls, hold UP + B to use the
special.

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

During the game, press pause and
then press UP, DOWN, UP, DOWN,
B, B, A, A to power your
strength up.

During the game, pause and press
DOWN, UP, DOWN, UP, A, A, B, B
to get three scrolls
automatically.

During the intro screen to each
stage, if you hold UP-LEFT and
press A and B at the same time,
you can get rid of the timer.

On the title screen, while
holding A, press UP, UP, LEFT,
LEFT, LEFT, DOWN, DOWN, LEFT,
LEFT, LEFT and a floor select
will appear up in the top right
corner.

TIP #1: Again, using the doors
is imperative. There may be
times now when you find yourself
swarmed by 5-7 enemies at once,
and hiding is your only choice.

TIP #2: This time bosses don't
automatically appear, and you
have to find them yourself. Each
boss hides behind a door, and
what you need to do is hide
behind the door until you see
the boss' figure appear behind
one of the other doors. Kill all
the enemies in the room, then,
keep yourself behind the door
until a cursor appears over the
boss. Now, it'll finally start
moving and you can beat it. Just
like last time, once you beat
the boss you can go to the next
level.

TIP #3: The golden shuriken is
still present in this game, and
more annoying than ever. Watch
out for it and be prepared to
dive back into the door to avoid
it.

TIP #4: You can hold down to
drop through floors, as you
might have figured out. This is
especially helpful in this game
since most bosses can only be
killed by jumping, and they tend
to have weird movement patterns.

CHALLENGE #1: Kill two enemies
using the doors.

You've probably already done
this in the last Haguruman game.
Honestly, the levels are so wide
and there are so many enemies
that you can just keep going in
and out of the same door and end
up killing two enemies just by
accident. It's really a simple
challenge.

CHALLENGE #2: Collect three
scrolls and use the special.

Again, something easy that you
most likely know how to do by
now. The one curveball is that
this time the special isn't
automatic -- you have to press
UP + B in order to use it. This
comes in handy during the later
levels. Just keep trying to get
the scrolls, if you miss one
don't worry, as it will
eventually respawn.

CHALLENGE #3: Find the first
boss and kill it.

Look up at Tip #2 to learn how
to pull out the boss. It will
take a few hits to kill, so it's
recommended that you keep your
health in tact before hand.

CHALLENGE #4: Clear through
Floor 4.

Surprisingly, this is a
challenge. The enemy counts on
floors 3 and 4 greatly increase
from before, and basically every
step you make, be expected to be
swarmed by strong, fast enemies.
All you can do is rely on your
shuriken and jumping skills.
Scroll-grabbing may become a
problem as sometimes you'll just
be too busy killing enemies to
worry about getting the scrolls.
The boss of floor 4 is a real
jerk, because he not only blocks
your shuriken, but also blocks
your first jump, requiring you
to jump on him twice to deal
real damage. And as if that
wasn't enough, he can also throw
shuriken at you. The range is
very short, though, so don't
worry.Remember that you can
continue after a game over by
pressing LEFT + START at the
game over screen.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

As you've no doubt noticed by
now, KNH2 is basically a much
harder version of the original.
This game requires serious door-
swinging enemy-killing skills in
order to be cleared. It's also a
good idea in the level to find a
place where there's a hard floor
beneath you, and preferably in a
corner, because enemies love to
jump up at you from beneath and
kill you. It's always better to
be below them than above because
they can't go down through
floors like you can. Levels 6,
7, 8 are the big problems here
as there are an OBSCENE number
of enemies, and the level setup
makes it very hard to go around
killing them in a reasonable
manner. It's best to start these
levels out by doing your fair
share of door-flipping and the
moving to hunt out the faraway
enemies. The skull ninjas
require two hits to kill, but
you can usually stun them with a
door hit and them open the door
again (if it's the same color)
to kill them in one go. In the
earlier levels, it's possible to
stand in the same spot the
entire time and just keep
flipping doors until the boss
comes out.

Bosses will either come out when
you kill every enemy or if you
find them behind a door.
Sometimes if time is an issue
it's better just to drag them
out yourself, since the levels
are large enough to seclude you
and the boss from the other
enemies.

Be especially careful with the
last boss, as he isn't the
flailing wimp you remember from
KNH1. This time he can use weird
shoulder attacks, moves much
faster, jumps crazily, and
shoots stuff. The good part is
that he can be stunned with
shurikens and only needs to be
hit twice, so use that to your
advantage. Of course, after you
beat the first eight stages,
you'll have to do eight harder
ones.

After you beat the 16th stage,
you'll head to the "FINAL
STAGE," where you have to fight
the last boss in a robot in a
very Dr. Wily-esque fashion. He
shoots two types of bullets,
either three homing missiles or
four spread cannonballs that go
downwards. As soon as he raises
his arm up to shoot the homing
missiles he is invincible, so
don't even try jumping on him
and hide as quickly as possible.
The only interval where you can
jump on him is when he's
finished shooting the
cannonballs. Once you jump on
him, he'll fly down to a lower
platform so immediately after
hitting him, you have to down+a
there to get him. He gets faster
as you hit him so it can get
pretty crazy. Three strikes and
he's out.


=GUADIA QUEST= [G]

Well, here it is. This game is
such a throwback to Dragon
Quest, complete with the
annoying menus and everything.
Items, equipment, experience
points, monsters...it's really a
fun experience, especially for
RPG enthusiasts. It may be a
little difficult to navigate,
especially if you're playing
this with no Japanese knowledge.
Instead of putting tips, I'm
just going to go through the
game challenge by challenge, and
then the rest of it, since you
can save your progress and don't
have to start over again from
the beginning.

CHALLENGE #1: Reach the far
town.

Well, before you can even go
looking for towns or anything,
you have to figure out what's
going on. The King starts
telling you about typical RPG
fare, save the world, evil demon
cave, blah blah blah. The rest
of the NPCs say similar stuff.
If you press A, you'll get a
menu that looks exactly like any
Dragon Quest game, or
Earthbound, if you've played
that too. The first option on
the top left is Talk, then
Status, then Items, then Magic
(you have no so far), then
Contract. Contract is an option
that allows you recruit humanoid
monsters to join your party. You
can only recruit monsters that
can understand your words,
though, so you have to really
pick and choose who you focus
on. And you can only recruit one
at a time. Most of the time
during battles they just sit
there, and rarely help, so it's
not that useful of a thing to
begin with. Finally, the last
menu option is Check. The King
will have given you 500 "Mane"
(The game's currency) so first
things first is to buy some
equipment. When the talking is
over, head down to the lower
right of the castle and pick up
the three chests. You'll get a
Wyvern Wing, which will take you
back to the castle if you use
it, a Witch's Medicine, which
will heal your MP, and Healing
Meat, which will heal your HP.

As for what your characters have
so far...well, they've got crap.
All of their equipment basically
is crap. And if you want to
check your characters' stats,
the stat menu is set up like
this:

Level
Strength
Speed
Stamina
HP
MP
Attack
Defense
EXP
Next

Yep, there's no magic stat. It's
weird. The first character has
the best stats by far, although
he is a bit slow. The second
character is decent all around,
and the third character...well,
she sucks. But she's super fast.
Sort of like an unarmed ninja.

Head outside, take note of the
shop with the cane on the sign,
as the old guy there will heal
your unconscious allies for
free, which is nice. The sack
place is the items shop, where
you can buy healing items and
also items that will raise your
stats during battle. The last
item will keep enemies from
encountering you for a short
time. The bottom left place is
the inn, you can stay there for
10 Mane, and you'll be using it
in a bit.

The far right shop is the
weapons shop. Here, you can
buy...well, not much, really.
The first three items that are
150 gold each are better weapons
for your characters, in that
order, so buy those three. Equip
them through the items menu (new
items will appear at the bottom)
and then sell back your junk.
That's really all you can do at
this point.

If you talk to the purple-haired
girl in the south area of the
village, she will tell you that
the far town is south of here.
By the way, you can save the
game at any time by going into
your items and selecting the
first one, "Bouken no Kiroku,"
and just clicking through the
menu. This will come in handy.

Now it's world map time. You
could head to the town right
now, but you might die in the
process. You will find that
during battles, your second and
third characters might miss a
lot...that's just the way it is
for now. The little counters
over the enemies have different
symbols, and the % that a symbol
will appear is based on what
weapon is equipped. You could go
around nit- picking but it
really doesn't have that big of
an effect on the game. Just pick
the strongest weapons. Stick
close to the town and level up
-- when your HP gets low, just
go back to the old man to heal.
Refer to the spell list below
[L] for info. on what level you
learn the spells and then what
each spell does.

Once your characters are at
level 4, you should be able to
survive the journey to the other
town. Character 1 should be able
to take out most monsters by
himself, so just have 2 and 3
team up on the other one and you
will be able to take out most
monsters.

Watch out for a grey wolf
looking thing -- the "Wandering
Orc." It can do around 25 damage
to your characters if they still
have the base equipment, so keep
a healer on standby. It's not
too hard to kill, especially
with Megaru.

To get to the next town, head
southeast, then cross the bridge
and head south. When you see the
grey mountains, go a bit
southeast, and you should see a
town icon. Now, all you need to
do is save inside the town, and
you'll have completed the first
challenge.

CHALLENGE #2: Get your
characters to Level 7.

This is pretty easy, considering
you're not far from that level
as it is. The town only has an
item shop, which sells normal
items (that you don't need) and
special ones that are far too
expensive and you don't need
anyway. Do note, however, that
the inn is half the price of the
one at the castle. Leave the
town and level up as you head
back up towards the castle, but
then head east and go into a
temple. Inside here, move up and
check the pedestal. It will warp
you underground where you can
pick up a Bronze Protector from
a chest. Bronze Protectors help
you make contracts with
monsters...not really useful.
That's all there is to do here
right now, so head back onto the
field. From here, if you still
aren't at Level 7, head over to
the area west of the small town,
and you can fight powerful
Golems. If you use strong magic
and keep your HP up, you can
defeat them easily with no
problem, and they give good EXP.
Save when all three characters
are at L7.

CHALLENGE #3: Get 1000 Mane.

Another easy challenge. You
shouldn't have bought anything
with your money so far, as you
don't need it and can find
better equipment soon, so
hopefully you have around 3-400
Mane already saved up. In this
eastern area, you'll see a weird
rock/forest-maze type thing,
just ignore it for now. Instead,
head north up a peninsula until
you see a big cave. This is the
Demon Dungeon, the place where
you will be spending the bulk of
your time for the rest of this
challenge. Head inside. On this
first floor you will encounter
gargoyles, which are rather
tame, and old men, who can cast
strong magic if you give them
the chance, so always take them
out first. If you get into
battles with 2-3 enemies, you
can get around 100 Mane per
battle. Refer to the guide below
that explains how to get all the
treasure, and as soon as you get
1000 Mane, save so you can move
on to the next challenge.

CHALLENGE #4: Defeat the boss on
4F.

Now this is a challenge! There
is an entire dungeon ready for
you to explore.

First things first, head down
the right passageway on the
first floor. If you search the
middle of this pedestal, it will
completely heal your party for
free...comes in handy. The best
way to tackle beating this boss
is simply to move methodically
through the dungeon, as it will
level up your characters and
also grant you access to a bunch
of awesome equipment, much
better than what you could buy
in the store. The only exception
is that you never get a better
weapon for #3, so feel free to
buy that 1600 mane weapon from
the castle and equip it on her.
Also, you can buy sets of Rune
Shields, Armor, and Helmets for
your #1 and #2 characters (for
non-japanese speakers, the
titles of these armors all have
a - in the second spot, and they
cost around 7-900 each). But
honestly, the defense they give
is really marginal compared to
the stuff you can find in the
dungeon, so I would not go out
of my way to get it.

Now it's time to find the
treasure. On F1, head straight
left from the healing spot and
pick up a Healing Meat and a
Wyvern Wing from the two chests.
Then, go down and around and
pick up a Wind User's Helmet,
which is a great piece of
equipment for #3. Then head down
to the left and pick up another
Healing Meat. Even farther left
from that, there is a Magic
Apple in a chest. I would use
this on #3, as she is your main
spellcaster. It will raise her
magic powre. Down from there is
an Explosion Flower Seed, which
is a rather crappy battle item.
Now head straight north from
here, past all the chests you
opened, and you should find
three more, which will give you
a Defense Apple, Life Apple, and
100 mane in that order. Use the
apples on who you wish, although
I think #3 could use it the
most, with her terrible stats.
Now head towards the yellow
colored tiles, and pick up 300
mane and another Healing Meat
from the chests. Then, in the
enclosed room, you can get a
Witch's Medicine from the chest
there. Finally, there is one
more chest on this floor to the
east, which will reward you with
500 mane. Now would be a good
time to warp back to the castle
and buy the 1600 mane weapon for
#3 if you want. Whatever you do,
head down the upper stairs next
to that last chest to continue
to 2F.

On the second floor, you will
encounter some new monsters -- a
minotaur, which hits hard but
can be taken out easily with
physical attacks. There are also
blue things, Will-O-Wisps, who
can actually cast sleep on your
entire party with a single
attack, so they are very
dangerous. Take them out first.
Eventually #1 and #2 should be
able to take them out each with
one hit.

Once you get down there, go left
and then back up a new set of
stairs to 1F, and pick up the
Titan Stone from the chest. You
can sell these for 1000 mane at
shops. Now, head back
downstairs, backtracking a bit,
and then go west to the yellow
tiles, where you can pick up a
Ninja Headband. Equip it on #2.
Now go downwards, head far to
the left and down for a long
way, and then go to the right,
where there are two chests.
Inside are a Hiepittan (panacea)
and another Explosion Seed. Go
down the steps here, and follow
a series of more steps to
eventually get the Wind User's
Mantle and the Darkness Robe.
The Wind User's Mantle sucks,
but equip the Darkness Robe.
Head back to where you
originally were on 2F, then go
down and far to the left to a
new set of stairs that go up.
They lead to two chests,
containing a Terror Axe, a good
weapon for #1, and another
battle item that does damage
(it's crap). Go back downstairs
and head alllll the way to the
right, then go straight up, note
the cracked wall but don't go
through it, keep going up,
ignore the stairs as they just
lead back up to 1F, and then
pick up the Death God Coin on
the yellow tiles. The Death God
Coin basically casts Sokudeesu
for 0 MP. Now head back down and
go through the cracked wall,
pick up another Wyvern Wing in
the chest. If you go north from
here, you'll eventually come
upon a chest to the east that
will give you a Demon's Spear, a
good weapon for #2. Now head
back down past the chest where
the Wyvern Wing was and go
around the corner and down the
stairs to 3F.

Third floor. Not much new here.
There are more minotaurs,
recolors of the old geezers who
can now cast group attacks that
do ~25 damage with good armor
(so as usual, take them out
first) and red will-o-wisps,
just kill them fast with
physical attacks. First, go up
and down the stairs to find a
Cyclops Pole in a chest. This is
the best weapon in terms of
attack for #1 right now, but I
should warn you that it misses
quite often. It's up to you what
you want to use. I don't really
recommend it. Stick with the
Claymore. Then go back, and go
up the leftmost passage, curve
around until you're below and
heading left again, then go up
and get the treasure, which is a
Minotaur Shield (as if you
didn't have one by now). Keep
going left until you get the
other treasure, a Speed Ring.
I'd use it on 1. You should have
seen another set of stairs by
now that lead downwards, go down
them, get the Witch's Medicine
and then come back up. Now
backtrack until you're in the
bottommost right corner, and
head up the far right passage.
When you get to a fork, take the
right and then go up and left to
get a Shinkuuha no Bin. Head
back and up some more, ignore
the stairs, then go and grab the
Susanoo Armor. This is really
good armor for 1. Now head down
the stairs and grab the Bronze
Protector. Head left and go back
up to 3F. Head left and out of
the maze, and you'll be in a
different sort of area with pits
and stuff. There are also more
stairs down, take them. You'll
find Power, Speed, and Magic
Seeds in 3 chests below. Now you
can begin to traverse the pit
part. You'll periodically fall
into holes, there's nothing I
can really tell you except to
try and remember where they
are...

Try to stay to the bottom, hug
the lower wall, and go around
until you reach a long
passageway going downwards.
There are four chests down here,
containg, in a clockwise order
from the right: A Witch's
Medicine, Thor's Lightning,
(crappy battle item) a Bronze
Protector, and a Claymore, which
is a better sword for #1. Now
head straight up from here,
hugging the right side this
time, go northeast, and you will
get a Defense Apple inside a
chest. Now the only thing left
to do on this floor is to go as
far to the left as you can,
until you finally come across a
set of stairs leading down to
4F.

We're almost to the end of this
forsaken place. On this floor,
you might run into a pack of 3
green gargoyles, which aren't
too hard. The worst encounter in
my opinion is a samurai and an
old man, who can really screw
you up if you don't kill them
off fast. Keep saving
frequently.

Head as far to the right as you
can and pick up a Gold Protector
from the chest. Then go back to
the first room and head all the
way down, then all the way right
through the cracked wall and
keep heading all the way right
until you get a treasure,
Dragon's Blood. (This will
revive an unconscious character
so keep it in mind). Head back
one room and then go down, and
through the cracked wall and up
the long flight of stairs to
eventually get a Darkness Sword
and another Dragon's Blood. I
would equip the Darkness Sword
on #2, since she can't use the
Claymore, and this will give you
two strong attackers.

Finally, once you're back down
on 4F, just head all the way
left from the stairs and you
will see a skeleton character.
You can talk to it to engage the
boss...but of course, save your
game first. As long as you're
around Level 15 and #3 has
access to Yowaare and
Gachigaachi, you'll be fine.

So when you're ready, talk to
the monster to start the battle
with "Deep Dark Mephis." He's
actually a pushover if you use
Gachigaachi and then Yowaare him
four times. He starts off strong
so keep an eye on your HP, but
once you've weakened him enough,
his attacks will be doing 4-5
damage. With your two attackers,
you should have him dead in no
time, and you'll get a whopping
800 EXP as a reward. After
you're done, save your game, and
you've completed the fourth
challenge.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

After killing Mephis, you
received the Heaven's Key. Warp
back to town, heal up and sell
stuff if you want, then head to
the castle. You can use the
Heaven's Key to open up the door
to the right in the castle. Up
top, you get a Spirit Ring and
an Angel Robe from the chests.
The Spirit Ring goes best on #3,
but the Robe can go on either #2
or #3. Annoying as it may seem,
you still have to use the
Heaven's Key to open the door to
get out. That's all you can do
in the castle for now, so head
northeast and keep going around.
Far to the east you may see a
suspicious-looking tree...just
ignore it. If you can't help it,
at least save before you check
it, because it contains the most
powerful enemy in the game, the
"Game Master." There's also
another one down in the stone
maze by the other dungeon, and
they're incredibly hard to
defeat. Just wait until later.
Keep heading north until you
find Heaven's Tower.

Inside, you'll see a bunch of
different monsters, but there's
none you really need to worry
about. The blue mask things cast
sleep with ridiculous frequency
and also use powerful spells, so
always take them out first. The
treasures on the first floor are
nothing to shout about, there is
another Titan Stone in the top
left corner, so you can walk
around and get them, but they're
mostly just useless battle
items. If you head left from the
stairs that lead up to 2F and go
outside and all the way around,
you can get two great chests --
a Holy Sword, and a Section
Chief Name Card (save this item
for later). There is also an
Angel Mask in a chest on the
east side of the outer path,
which all three characters can
equip. On this floor you might
want to enlist the help of the
water creature with Contract, as
she, unlike many of the other
useless monsters you ran into so
far, will heal your entire party
once in a while, as well as use
group spells on enemies. It
happens randomly, though.

Now that 1F is completely devoid
of treasure, head up the stairs.
Go through the broken wall to
the right and get the chest,
which contains an Angel Staff, a
good weapon for #3. Here on the
second floor, you will start to
encounter these jellyfish-
looking things that will
sometimes cast instant death
spells on your party members.
It's really helpful if your
second character is at least at
level 20, that way you can cast
the revive spell and not have to
warp out of the dungeon every
time something like that
happens. Although, Ikiiro does
cost over 20 MP, so it's not
exactly good to be using it over
and over again. Be careful. The
jellyfish things also randomly
drop AB Suits, which are good
armor for #2. North from the
Staff chest is another Wyvern
Wing. Go down, and you'll run
into paths that lead to steps to
get all the other items on the
1F: Witch's Medicine, Holy Armor
on the bottom two steps. There
is also a set of steps up north
that leads to a Magic Apple.
Lastly, there is a lone chest
sitting close to the entrance
steps that has a Life Apple.
When you're done collecting
chests, head back to where the
Wyvern Wing was, go down, then
Check that diamond thing to get
warped to another area. Head
right, then up and grab the
Super Healing Meat from the
chest. There are steps at the
end of the hall that will take
you to 3F.

On 3F, head forward until you
see the fork, then go left and
up to get a Unicorn's Tear. It
restores ~50 HP for all. Then
head to the right and get a
Spirit Hat. The steps to 4F are
on the bottom left.

On this floor you have a
stronger version of the masks,
again kill them off first, and
then dragons with high HP that
also hit pretty hard. Go north
and save, then open the chest to
fight a Wandering Giant. This
thing is very strong, but if you
put your guard up you shouldn't
have to waste time using Yowaare
on it, as it is weak toward
magic. Use Metamega and whatever
else to kill it and get 800 EXP
and a Murasame Blade, a great
weapon for #1. After that head
to the lower right and down some
steps to a chest that will yield
a Light Dress for #3. Back on
4F, in the top right there is a
pedestal that graciously heals
your entire party (you must have
been getting low on HP/MP by
now) and then steps to 5F.

On the fifth floor, you will
encounter an even stronger
dragon...it's tough. And it
sometimes comes with the big
giant guy in a single battle,
but always take the dragon out
first, as the giant is actually
the weaker of the two. You can
opt to contract him into your
party if you want, as he
sometimes does powerful physical
attacks. Head up to get a
Phantom Helm from the chest,
then take the warp on the lower
left. You'll now be in a warp
maze of sorts. Take the leftmost
warp and grab the Defense Apple
from the chest, then head up the
stairs to 6F. Here, go up to the
right and grab Mail of Knight
from the chest and then go
through the cracked wall and
grab the Murasame Armor. It's
weaker than the Mail of Knight
and no one else can equip it, so
it must have some secret
effect...unfortunately the game
doesn't tell you anything about
it. Head down to the lower
right, and you'll see steps that
lead to a pit down- stairs. The
treasures down there are a Sword
of Knight (the Murasame Blade is
much better), a Skull Wand for
#3, and a Murasame Glove.

These pathways over the pit have
lots of holes, and I've
generally found it easier to
take the bottom path. Both paths
lead to the same place, but the
top one seems to have much more
holes. Of course, this is also a
good place to level up, since
the monsters give tons of EXP.
If you get low on MP, feel free
to go down to the healing altar
again. The only problem is that
it doesn't revive people, so if
#2 and #3 both die, and you're
out of Dragon Blood, then you
have to warp out. If you get
really frustrated, just save
every few steps and then reset
if you fall. On the last
straightaway, just hug the left
wall and you'll be home free.

After that, head down to the
lower right and get the Silver
Buckler for #2, then head down
the stairs to find yourself at
two more warps. Take the right
warp, then the right warp again,
then the one in front of you to
get to a treasure chest with a
Power Apple. Up the stairs
you'll find another chest with a
Super Healing Meat. Go down and
around, and you'll finally be
face to face with the boss of
this place.

If you're Level 23-25, this guy
should be a cinch. As usual,
buff up your characters with
Ganbaare and Gachigaachi, then
just have #3 keep using Yowaare
while #1 and #2 pound away at
him. He has a group attack that
can do some major damage if you
aren't buffed, but spells should
take care of that. As a reward
you get 2000 EXP and 1000 mane.

After you beat him, you'll get
the Demon's Key. Warp out, and
then make sure to head back to
town, because the weapons shop
has gotten a mini-upgrade. Sell
back all the crappy equipment
you have, and then buy the Demon
Slayer, which is about 7000
mane, for #1. You should have a
TON of mane from all the
fighting you've done so far, so
buying these weapons should be
no problem. Then, the next
weapon, the Earth Wand, is
around 11000 mane. It's a better
weapon than what you have for
both #2 and #3, but you will
find better weapons in the next
dungeon, so it's up to you if
you want to buy it for now or
not. Then, buy two Holy Robes
and two Magic Shields (the 2
next items) and equip them. Sell
back everything else, because if
you don't your inventory will
most likely get full in the next
dungeon. Also, while you're
here, don't forget to open the
left door in the castle with the
Demon's Key, to get a set of
Phantom Mail.

Warp back to the Demon's
Dungeon, and then head up on the
1F to that locked door by the
healing altar. Use the Demon's
Key and head down the long
flights of stairs. Down here the
monsters are pretty easy, or
should be, except for one huge
annoyance -- the blue ones. You
can only use magic on them,
which means that fighting them
will take a significant toll on
your MP. However, for beating
them, you get 2000 EXP, so it's
kind of worth it. Just be
careful about your MP and go
back to the altar if necessary.
If you run into them and don't
want to fight them, wait a few
turns and usually they will run
away. The 5F is pretty huge, but
it's not too hard to get lost,
and the steps to 6F are in the
lower left corner. There aren't
any spectacular items on this
level, except for a Power Apple.
Head down when you're done
treasure-hunting.

6F is pretty straightforward,
it's just a big square with
intersecting path- ways. There
are good items on this floor,
namely the Samurai Helm the
Prayer Tiara, the Death God
Kama, and the Asklepios. These
items are located in little
rooms, one on the top and one on
the mid-lower right, in which
there're four chests each. Be
careful with these chests,
because many of them are trapped
with monster battles, so heal
up/save before you open them. In
the center of the room is a set
of stairs that will take you to
a secluded area on 7F, where you
can pick up a Super Healing
Meat, Anubis Armor, Dragon's
Blood, Magic Warrior Medicine,
and a Lucifer Shield.

The stairs on the upper right of
6F will take you down to 7F,
which consists of purple stone
walkways embedded with skeleton
faces surrounded by a sea of
blood...pretty cool. There is a
Phantom Blade (better weapon for
#1) on the left side, and if you
go straight down from the
entrance you will find a Wyvern
Wing. After a while of walking
you might run into a Lightless
Mephis, which is the same sprite
as the first boss you fought in
here. He heals himself and
attacks twice, but if you hit
him hard for a few times he goes
down easily. On the bottom right
side is a Musashi's Wakizashi, a
weapon for #2. The Death God
Kama is better, though. Far left
from the Wakizashi you'll find
the steps down to 8F.

9F contains the same kind of
enemies you saw in 8F, although
they come in droves now, usually
3 per battle. If you're still on
your first run through the
dungeon, you may want to warp
out now and heal your MP,
because you'll be doing a lot of
healing down here, and there is
a really long path to some
treasure coming up. Head right
from the stairs to find a
Profound Robe, and then after
following a long snaky path, a
Petal of Wisdom in a chest
(heals ~100 HP to all). From
there follow another long snaky
path upwards to finally reach
the Lucifer Sword, an awesome
sword that's well worth the work
it took to find. When you get
back to the stairs you came
down, head to the left this time
and pick up the Lucifer armor,
and then go up and to the right
and grab the Super Healing Meat.
Above that chest is a bridge of
bones that leads to the stairs
to 9F.

On this floor you'll see a few
little skeletons walking around.
Just walk straight up, and
you'll see the final boss of
this dungeon on his throne. You
know the drill. When you're
ready, talk to him and engage
the battle with King of the
Underworld Rudorafu. After using
Yowaare only twice, he should be
rendered useless. Use
Gachigaachi once if you really
want, but otherwise you should
be able to pound him into the
dirt in no time, especially if
you're Level 30+. You get 6000
EXP as a reward.

When Rudorafu dies he'll give
you the Dark King's Soul. Warp
back to the castle and take care
of any healing and shopping you
need. This is totally optional,
but if you want, head south of
Heaven's Tower until you see a
lone tree. If you click on the
tree, you'll get into a battle
with a super- powerful "Game
Master," and he'll most likely
kill you. But if you go up one
panel north and then two panels
to the west, and Check that
spot, you'll fight a blue Game
Master which is only Level 40, a
weaker version of the red ones.
You can contract this one and I
suggest you do, as he is pretty
strong, constantly heals your
party, and even sometimes cast a
stronger version of Yowaare that
targets ALL enemies and lowers
their stats by 30! Very useful.
Just use a Bronze/Silver
Protector to weaken his stats at
the start of the battle and then
use Ganbaare and Yowaare a few
times and you'll be set. As a
reward you get the Section Chief
Jumpsuit, one of the best pieces
of armor in the game.

Now head to Heaven's Tower
again, and then walk straight up
and talk to the blue demon
that's been guarding your path.
He'll see that you have the Dark
King's Soul and get out of the
way. The warp behind him will
take you to 7F.

On this floor you will encounter
weird statue things, they seem
like they are weak towards
magic, but with the weapon #1
has equipped, you can deal
around 50 damage, so there's no
real need to waste your magic.
They give 5000 exp per pop. You
can also run into blue guys
called Sky Protectors, they can
use auto-death spells, so be
careful. You can also recruit
them, though they are weaker
than Game Masters. The path is
pretty straightforward. The
chest contains a Silver Stone
which you can sell for a lot of
Mane...although, you really
should have no use for it at
this point. Head through the
cracked wall and grab the two
chests, which have a Susanoo
Helm and Holy Mail. From here,
just go around the room in a
circle and pick up the
treasures: Siren Ring,
Sagittarius Bow, and Holy Armor.
The steps to 8F are in the lower
right.

On 8F, you'll be faced with five
warps. Take the middle one, and
then in the next screen, take
the second warp from the left
(it's in the bottom corridor).
Now, head left around in a wide
arc until you find some stairs
leading downward to a Pegasus
Sword. Then head back up and to
the southeast to grab a Super
Healing Meat. Keep going down
and evnetually you'll reach
stairs to 9F.

9F is just a straightaway up
until you get to a mirror. Check
it, and it will warp you into
another corridor. Walk up a
little bit and you should see a
monster. It actually isn't the
boss, but just a NPC that gives
you clues: 23415, and ADBCE.
Head down and grab the Holy
Lance, which is actually weaker
than the Lucifer Sword, and then
use the mirror to warp. Now
you'll be in front of a bunch of
mirrors. Check the "II" mirror,
but before you go any further,
head to the right in the "B"
room and go down to get the
Seraphim Armor. Now head down
and around and you'll be in the
"D" room. Select the "III" warp
and you'll find yourself back in
the "B" room. Now select the
"IV" warp. Select the "I" warp
in the "C" room. Then, in the
"E" room, select the "V" warp.
You'll now be in a small room
with a warp and stairs heading
up. Check the warp and you'll be
taken to a room that looks
almost identical. Go up the
stairs through 11F and then grab
the Amaterasu Helm from the
chest and go back down. Check
the warp and it will take you
back to the corridor with the
monster in it. Unfortunately you
have to do the warp sequence
again, but that is a really good
helmet, so it's worth it. When
you get back to the first small
room, head up the stairs to 10F.

On this floor, head left through
the long cracked wall to see
three treasure chests. The
bottom one has a monster only
and no treasure, the top right
one has a giant (easy) and a
Super Healing Meat, and the top
left one contains an Amaterasu
Sword. You have the option of
equipping this on #1 or #3, I
would go for #3 because #1
already has a really great
weapon, and it will raise #3's
attack power by 20. Now head
back out and up until you reach
a four-way intersection. Go
left, and there'll be EIGHT more
chests for you to explore. The
left north one contains a Super
Healing Meat, and the right
north one has monsters, and
contains an Earth Robe, a rather
crappy piece of equipment. The
east ones contain 500 Mane and a
Life Apple. The right south one
has monsters and 3000 Mane. Left
south contains Dragon's Blood.
The bottom west one contains
monsters and no treasure, and
the top west one contains a
Petal of Wisdom. Now head to the
right and we get to do this all
over again. The left north one
contains a Magic Apple, and the
right north one contains a
Murasame Helmet. The top east
one contains a Gold Protector,
and the bottom east one contains
a Magic Warrior's Medicine. The
right south one contains Thor's
Lightning and the left south one
contains Speed Perfume (raises
speed during battle). The bottom
west one contains a Gold Stone
(sell for 10000 Mane) and the
top west one contains a monster
and another Silver Protector.
Now head up from the
intersection to find a healing
altar, and then the stars to
11F.

On this floor you might run into
the enemies that look like blue
horses (Kirin) that you may have
seen earlier in chests below.
They often attack twice and with
group spells, so if you run into
one make sure your HP is up. At
this point in the dungeon you
may find your inventory is
getting full, so throw out your
Hiepittans, as they just cure
sleep, or any battle items that
do damage, as they are useless
by now. Head up and right to get
a Phantom Shield, Try to keep
one slot open in case you get
items from battle, or else the
game will automatically throw
them away. Sometimes the knights
you run into drop Beelzebub
Armor, which is a better armor
for #1, so you wouldn't want to
miss that. Then head down and to
the left, and down a long
corridor. Take the first
corridor to the right you see to
find an Amaterasu Glove and a
Magic Warrior's Medicine. Go
back to the long passageway, and
then enter the second right
corridor to find chests
containing a Seed of Wisdom and
a Gold Protector. Skip the third
right passage for now and head
to the bottom of the long
hallway to get two treasures: a
Susanoo Sword and a Winged
Helmet, which both suck compared
to what you already have. Head
up to the third right corridor
and grab the two chests,
containing a Speed Apple and a
Life Apple, and then go around
to the bottom right corner and
hang a left to find the stairs
to 12F.

Will this dungeon ever end? You
start off in a room with 16
total warps in 4 rows. The
bottom left will take you to a
Lilith Rod, and the bottom right
will take you to Kojirou's
Katana. The topmost leftmost one
will take you to a room where
you can get another Section
Chief's Name Card. The topmost
rightmost one will take you to a
room containing Dragon's Blood.
That's all the treasures you can
get from the warps.

The warp in the third row,
second from the right will take
you to the next room--although,
check it again and it will warp
you to a secret room with a
chest containing Amaterasu
Armor. Warp back to the main
room and select the one in the
third row again, and you'll be
in a room with steps that lead
to 13F.

Finally...the boss of Heaven's
Tower, and the penultimate boss
of this game. He's not messing
around, so make sure you buff up
IMMEDIATELY. Even being around
Level 35-40 won't save you from
his ~40-50 damage group attacks.
The good thing is that he has
pretty low HP, so if you hit him
fast and hard it'll be easy.
Having a Game Master along
helps. After he dies he'll give
you the Sky King's Soul and
you'll be done.

Warp back to the castle and sell
off your remaining equipment.
We're almost done here. Go talk
to the King, he'll mention
something weird and give a
strange
laugh...okay...suspicious! Now
go back to the Royal Tomb, (it's
the 3rd option in your warp
menu) and check the pedestal
with the red jewel in the center
to receive the Royal Key. Now
head back to the castle town.
First go behind the castle and
down the stairs. Down here you
can finally open the door. You
can also open the other door
with the Heaven's Key and talk
to a weirdo who says that
darkness will envelop the
palace. Head through the bottom
door and you'll meet the
Princess, who says she was
actually locked in here by the
King after she realized his evil
plot! Oh noes! Save your game,
and then go up and talk to the
King. He'll reveal his evil
machinations and you'll be
forced to fight the true
darkness within him. The sprite
for this enemy is awesome, but
unfortunately this battle is all
too easy if you're Level 35-40.
Just buff up and smack him
around, and he'll be finished.
After the fight is over, you can
talk to the Princess to end the
game. You can't save after you
beat the King. Congratulations
on finishing the longest game in
GCCX!

Now, there is one optional part
of Guadia Quest. It's a fun
side-quest if you like the game
and are looking for a very
challenging boss fight. There
are two ducks in the small town
in the south who will give you
weird location- based clues. If
you check these locations on the
map, you will get into a boss
fight with "Game Masters," who
look like Arino. There are four
different types of Game Masters
-- purple, blue, green, and one
red one, in order from weakest
to strongest. By beating them
you can get the best items in
the game, but they really don't
make that much of a difference.
You can also recruit them with
Contract, although again, this
is just for fun and not
necessary to defeat anything
else. There are three white
ones, two blue ones, four green
ones, and one red one, who is
super hard. If you're not
familiar with Japanese or just
don't want to figure out the
puzzles, look below for the
locations:

To get to the actual locations,
there are some times when you
can't go in a straight line to
get there, because there is
water or mountains blocking your
way, so you just have to
remember your relative position
in respect to the town and get
to the right spot.

Purple: From the Royal Tomb -
Down 1, left 1. Reward: Section
Chief's Shield From the Southern
Town - Down 2, Right 21. Reward:
Section Chief's Hat Lone tree in
the rock maze below the Demon's
Dungeon - Needle

Blue: From the Southern Town -
Down 6, Left 3. Reward: Section
Chief's Sword. From the lone
tree south of Heaven's Tower -
Up 1, Left 2. Reward: Section
Chief's Jumpsuit

Green: The green Game Masters
are when things start getting a
little challenging, especially
if you want to recruit one to
your party (which you do).
They're Level 45 and very
strong. First, use Contract, and
then the GM will get even more
powerful. If you only have one
Section Chief Name Card, then
save it, but if you have two,
then use 1. This will drop its
stats by 50 and make it easier
to manage. Then have #1 use
Ganbaare, have #2 attack/heal
when necessary, and have #3 use
Gachigaachi a few times. When
his attacks start doing little
to no damage, just take him out.
He casts sleep periodically
which can be a real pain.

From the lone tree by Demon's
Dungeon - Up 6, Right 3. Reward:
Oboro Sword. From Heaven's
Tower: Down 1, Right 2. Reward:
Oboro Shield. From the Royal
Tomb: Up 1, Right 1. Reward:
Oboro Helm. From the Southern
Town: Down 2, Left 21. Reward:
Oboro Armor.

Red:

He's what you get when you Check
the lone tree by Heaven's Tower.

Alright...I am going to tell you
right now, this guy is a SOB. If
you really want, you can level
up to try and beat him, but
really, what's the point? If
you're already 40 or higher, you
should be able to beat him with
a little work. You can just save
before you engage him and reset
if things go bad. Now, you can
try to beat him normally or try
to Contract him, but...the
latter option makes him nearly
impossible to defeat at a
reasonable level. Besides, this
is the last boss in the entire
game, so there's really no need
to do it, but for those
completists, you're probably
going to want to go back into
Heaven's Tower and level up some
more before trying to Contract
him onto your team. Whether you
want to Contract him or not,
though, the strategy to fighting
him is generally the same.

First things first, you want to
have a green Game Master with
you. You should have been able
to contract one from the
previous four you fought.
Secondly, make sure you have all
the best equipment, as this will
help with the massive damage
this guy is able to deal. Some
equipment can be mixed and
matched between characters, so
try to spread out the Section
Chief armor so that everyone at
least has over 200 defense. #1
should be using the Oboro Sword.

Now, as for the GM's
attacks...he uses physical
attacks once in a while, which
suck and will do little damage.
He is also capable of using
magic attacks, however, and
unless you weaken him
significantly, they will do ~100
damage to your entire group per
turn. Seeing as how you probably
barely have 200 HP at this
point, that is really dangerous.
His last attack, and easily the
most problematic, is when he
'summons up darkness' and
attacks your entire party. This
does OVER 100 HP, which, alone,
wouldn't be that bad, but the
problem is this guy always
attacks twice per turn, so there
is a chance that he will use
this twice in a row. Even with
his stats weakened and yours
maximized, the damage this
attack does will not change for
some reason. So, unfortunately,
if he uses this twice in a row,
you're pretty much screwed.
Luckilly, he doesn't have that
much HP. I'd estimate it to be
somewhere around 2000-3000 HP.
So if you can survive that long,
he's beatable.

If you're contracting him,
you're going to want to use your
Section Chief Name Card and then
a Gold Protector, if you have
one. It's possible to weaken his
stats by 90-100, and the Name
Card does 50 of that amount, so
you're going to want to use
other items to do the rest. If
you want to Contract him but
don't have any
items...well...good luck is all
I have to say.

If you aren't contracting him,
you're going to have to weaken
him by using Yowaare. This can
take a while, however since you
have a GM on your team, chances
are he will use his stronger
Yowaare eventually and make
things go much quicker. While #3
is weakening him, have #2
alternate Mamoore between your
three party members, and have #1
use Ganbaare. Heal when
necessary by any means you can,
whether this means Unicorn
Tears, Seeds of Wisdom, or
magic, but just buff yourself at
least five times over with each
spell. Then you can start
whittling him down. That's all
the strategy I really have for
you on this one. He is a pain in
the rear, but with strategy and
a little luck you can beat him.

After that, you'll get the
Ashura Sword as a reward, the
strongest sword in the game.
Don't know what you'll be using
it for, since you just defeated
the strongest enemy in the game.
But congratulations, that was no
easy task. I'm really glad they
decided to put some sort of
challenging secret boss in this
game, as it was really
satisfying to find. With that,
you're done! I don't think there
are any more spells to learn
past Level 28, but who knows,
they could have hidden some
stuff, but I don't think I'll be
taking the time to level my
characters that high. On to the
next game!

[L] SPELLS 1st Character: Level
3: Tondeeke (Warp) [1] Level 10:
Tekikunna (Reduce Encounter
Rate) [3] Level 11: Zettamega
(Low-Damage) [3] Level 15:
Kobaashiri (Increase Field
Movement Speed) [2] Level 20:
Ganbaare (+5 STR & SPD) [6]
Level 28: Hiraris (Heals ~70 HP
for all) [16]

2nd Character: Level 2: Hiira
(Heals ~40 HP) [2] Level 3:
Mamoore (+10 DEF) [4] Level 4:
Megaru (Low-Damage) [3] Level 9:
Hiiramu (Heals ~60 HP) [9] Level
10: Okiiro (Cures Sleep) [2]
Level 12: Omega (Mid-Damage) [4]
Level 13: Hiiradon (Full HP) [8]
Level 15: Potoori (Steal) [5]
Level 17: Sokudeesu (Instant
Death Spell) [6] Level 20:
Ikiiro (Revive) [24] Level 24:
Hiraris (Heals ~70 HP for all)
[16]

3rd Character: Level 2: Megaru
(Low-Damage) [3] Level 3:
Guusuka (Sleep) [2] Level 4:
Hiira (Heals ~30 HP) [2] Level
7: Isooge (+10 SPD) [4] Level 8:
Kajibamega (Mid-Damage to All)
[5] Level 10: Hiiramu (Heals ~60
HP) [5] Level 11: Omega (Mid-
Damage) [4] Level 12: Yowaare
(Lower Enemy Stats) [8] Level
13: Naguure (+10 STR) [4] Level
14: Hiiradon (Full HP) [8] Level
16: Gachigaachi (+10 DEF to all)
[6] Level 17: Megarisu (Heavy
Damage to All) [7] Level 21:
Metamega (Massive Damage) [6]
Level 25: Ikiiro (Revive) [24]


=KARAKURI NINJA HAGURUMAN 3= [K3

Welcome to Haguruman 3...the
series has undergone a massive
facelift, and it barely looks
like the same game! This ain't
yo daddy's Haguruman. The game
is very reminiscent of the
Shinobi platformers on the
Genesis, which is a good thing.
The levels are more epic with
Metroid-like exploration, and
overall it is a whole lotta fun.

Special Controls:

On the game over screen, press
LEFT + START to continue.

UP+B: Super attack. SELECT:
Accesses the menu in-game. When
paused, press down to look below
you.

Pause, then press A, B, A, B to
get 99 lives.

Pause, then press B, A, B, A to
get 9999 cogs.

Pause, then press B, B, A, A to
warp straight to the level's
boss.

TIP #1: Enemies respawn in this
game, so the only advantage to
killing them repeatedly now is
to buy items from the shop,
which you will need to do. The
levels are pretty long in this
game, so you shouldn't let it
drag you down. This is also a
game in which you can continue
your progress, which is pretty
cool.

TIP #2: Sometimes when you
destroy the floating boxes you
will get what looks like a grey
square. This allows you to
perform your special super
attack, which attacks all the
enemies on the screen. Use it
wisely, and be careful if you're
jumping and attacking that you
don't waste it by accident.

TIP #3: You only need one scroll
to active a special now, and
they happen automatically and
randomly. The kinds of specials
you can get are 1) the girl who
heals your life,

TIP #4: You'll notice Haguruman
has two attacks with the B
button, shurikens from long-
range and a katana strike in
close range. Obviously the
katana strike is stronger, and
is necessary to kill some
enemies, but most of the time
the best way is to just throw
shurikens.

CHALLENGE #1: Buy the Three Shot
Gear, and equip it.

After the last challenge in
Guadia Quest, this is a
refreshingly easy one. The only
real problem here is finding
where the shop is in this
massive first level. Just go
along killing enemies until you
get down an up-down fork, and
take the up path so that you can
climb the ladder and get to a
tree area. Here you'll need to
get to the highest point and
then head left over the stone
platforms that fall if you stand
on them too long. You may see a
white door, this just leads to a
guy who gives you tips so don't
worry about it. Fall down the
gap and head to a new area. Here
there is a shop, which sells the
T (Three Shot Gear) for 400
cogs. If you don't have enough,
you can always go back and get
more, but it shouldn't be too
hard to amass that much,
especially if you've picked up
some of the golden cogs. Simply
jump to purchase it, and then
access the menu. In the menu,
you can use up-down to choose
one of three spots available to
equip gears, and once you've
chosen them you can use left-
right to choose which gear to
equip. The Three Shot goes in
the middle spot, so just leave
it there and press left and then
A to equip it.

CHALLENGE #2: Destroy the
regenerating tree.

This challenge is just a little
annoying because it requires to
play back through what you've
done so far, as you need the
Three Shot Gear to destroy the
regenerating tree. So get back
to the shop and buy and equip
the gear, and then if you want
you can jump behind the shot (be
careful not to fall in the pit)
and then destroy the wood
paneling to get some extra
bolts. From here you can head
back down to the first screen
and go below to destroy the
regenerating tree. You have to
use your shurikens, since the
"three-shot" will allow you to
destroy it before it regenerates
in time.

CHALLENGE #3: Clear Episode 1.

This level looks big, but it's
actually pretty straightforward.
Follow the path and get your
Three Shot Gear once more, and
then head right from that area
through the tree area. Jump down
the long passageway in the next
area, get the treasures if you
want, and then when you reach
the bottom step onto the upper
passageway, which will lead you
around and keep you heading
right. Your goal now is just to
move as far right as you can
along the screens (it's pretty
self-explanatory) until you
reach a part where there are
three regenerating trees in a
row. This is pretty annoying,
because if you mess up and the
tree behind you (or the one
you're standing on) starts to
regenerate, it will slap you
against the other one like a
ping-pong ball and kill you
within a matter of seconds. If
you get too close, Haguruman
will start using his katana,
which is too slow and usually
the source of slowdown. Kill the
first tree, and then stand on
the left edge of it -- this will
give you enough distance.
Without wasting any time
immediately begin shooting the
second tree, then continue for
the third and move on fast.
There is another series of these
immediately after, further
complicated by the fact that
there is a flying monster
lurking around, but it should
fly into the line of your
shurikens sooner or later so you
shouldn't worry about it. After
that, you can head to the boss.

The key to beating this boss is
speed. It's constantly moving
towards you, so if you waste
time dodging or moving around it
will cost you later. Immediately
take out the bottommost head --
since it's the start of the
battle nothing should be heading
for you yet, and you can take it
out with the shurikens in a
matter of seconds. Next aim for
the middle head. Be careful here
because the stone will not block
those floating swords from
hitting you. It's okay if they
hit you once or twice since you
have so much health, just don't
let up on the shurikens.
Finally, it's time for the third
head, just guard your stance on
that top platform and keep
throwing the shurikens, it
should be in just the right
range to hit it. If it gets too
close, your katana should be
able to finish it off. It's a
good idea to come into this
battle with full health, so you
may want to run around and
gather up hearts from chests if
you're kinda low from the level.

CHALLENGE #4: Kill 100 enemies
in Episode 2.

This is hardly fitting for the
final normal challenge in the
game, as it really isn't
difficult as it is time-
consuming. This level is huge,
and there are a lot of screens
that have pits on the bottoms,
so stay away from them. Racking
up 70-80 kills then accidentally
falling into a pit is extremely
frustrating...believe me. Your
best bet is to stay in the first
screen, or if you want you can
try and journey ahead, but make
sure you're familiar with the
area ahead of time. You may want
to just do a quick run through
the level and find a spot you
like, since all the enemies
respawn. There's no real
strategy here, just keep killing
them.

FINAL CHALLENGE: Clear the game.

Since this game saves your data,
you really only have two levels
left to clear. However, if you
think getting through them will
be a cinch, you'd better think
again -- these next two levels
are HUGE, and there's a list of
things to do in each of them.

The levels are far too maze-like
and convoluted to give a step-
by-step guide here, and besides,
it's better if you become
accustomed to it yourself since
it will involve a lot of
backtracking, so I'm just going
to give you a brief list that
should give you an idea of what
basically needs to be done in
each level. If you are a a
completist and want to get
everything, just refer to the
Gear List, because most of them
can be done any time before you
finish the level. Although, I
should note that none of them
besides the ones i mention in
this guide are necessary in
order to finish the game, and
it's simple enough to clear
without them.

Stage 2-

1. Get the High Jump Gear. This
   is achieved by going, from
   the start point,
basically as far right as you
can. Eventually you'll find a
shop and you can buy the gear
within.

2. Get to the halfway point in
   the level. As long as you
   make it to this part,
whenever you die you'll get sent
back here instead of all the way
back to start. In the third
screen from the start jump up to
the highest platform and climb
the ladder to get to a new area.
Then just keep heading right
until you find a long vertical
passageway with a bunch of
ladders. You need to keep
hopping up these ladders until
you get to the highest one,
which you can climb to get to
the halfway point.

3. Get the Hover and Wide Slash
   Gears. From the start point,
   climb all the
way up and then head to the
right, then two screens over you
should see a door. In hear you
can buy two new gears. The H one
will allow you to hover, VERY
handy in the upcoming levels,
and the W Gear increases the
range of your katana, which is
cool. It's important to note
here that you do have a max for
the "POWER" of your Gears, and
different gears have certain
numbers next to them which tell
you how much power they use. In
order to increase your maximum
power, you have to buy these
"MAX" circles which increase
them by 10. It isn't necessary
in order to clear the game to do
this, but if you have extra
cash, or even if you don't, just
go and kill some enemies and
then buy a lot of these, because
it will help you out later.

4. Get to the boss. From the
   shop with the three gears,
   just jump off the left
side and then go right to the
next screen, which should be a
big drop. Stick to th eleft as
you fall and then make it to the
next screen. At this point, you
need to stay on the lowermost
path and continue to the left.
From here, fall to the bottom
while dodging the spikes and
hugging the right wall, then go
to the next screen. After the
next big screen, you'll be in
another room with a doctor. He's
telling you that if you continue
to the right you won't be able
to return, so if there is still
a gear or two remaining that you
want to get, use the above white
door to warp back to the
beginning. Otherwise continue
forward to the boss. He's
practically the same as the boss
from Stage 1, except he has
annoying mirrors. With the rapid
shot and 4-shot gears it should
be easy to take him out.

Stage 3-

This stage is hard, and duly so.
You can really tell after
playing through this that the
developers did their best to
make two awesomely hard
platformer levels.

1. Get the Blue Stone Gear. When
   you get to the three black
   doors, take the
farthest one. When you get to
four more, take the top left one
and head through the ice stage
to get to a shop. Here you'll
get the BC Gear, which will let
you destroy those annoying blue
blocks.

3. Now it's time to reach the
   checkpoint. Head back past
   the four doors to
the room with the blue blocks
and go up the ladder and
onwards. To get past the really
hard jumping part with the two
ladders hanging down, equip the
high jump and jump to the second
ladder, then wait until the
timing is ride to slide along on
the platform past the fire.
Enter the exit to the right
above it.

4. Get the Red Stone Gear. Use
   the top exit in the next room
   and try to
survive through the sadistic ice
part until you reach a room with
two cannons at the top. You need
to go up, up, as far as you go
(ignore any doors you see as
they just lead to trap rooms
filled with enemies) until you
reach the very very top, and
then enter that door to get the
Red Stone Gear.

5. There are more gears you can
   get, but they aren't
   necessary to finish the
game, and the boss is easy
enough without them, so don't
worry about it. The exit behind
the red blocks in the ice column
will take you on a path that
will eventually lead you back to
where you started in the green
room. Head up to the highest
point and destroy the red blocks
(ignore the black door) and go
through to another screen, where
you will eventually need to make
a leap of faith off the tip of a
platform to reach the other
side. You'll be in a huge room
full of colored blocks now. You
basically need to cut your way
through until you reach the
ladder on the top left. Just
ignore all the other doors. Head
up and to the right and then
take the upper right exit into a
room with three spiked balls.
Take the lower right exit, then
the lower right exit again in
the fire room, and then the
upper right exit in the third
room. Now just keep heading
right ignoring the doors until
you reach the boss room.

Final Boss:

The first stage of the final
boss is normal as usual, just go
suicidal with your katana and
slice it to bits. The second
time, however, after you kill
the three main masks a fourth
one will come out of the center,
so try to be careful in the
beginning. The swords and orbs
can be destroyed, so do it if
they get in your way. The
biggest problem here is the
mirror, try ducking and throwing
shuriken. The fourth head can
actually be taken out with five
sword swipes if you have the
damage addition Gear equipped.

After defeating that boss, there
will be another scene, and then
the final boss, Haguruman Lady,
will appear. She's a bit tough,
but she has a definite pattern.
The best strategy I've found is
to stand on the middle pedestal
and jump tossing shurikens at
her. When she lets down her
barrier you have enough time for
2 katana swipes, then run to the
opposite side of the screen and
that should give you enough room
to dodge her attacks. She'll
either charge at you which you
can run away from, or, she'll
shoot missiles which you can
jump over. After about 10-15
hits she should go under. Just
watch out, because if you don't
have a lot of damage reduction
gears getting hit will take off
4-5 bars of your life.

After Haguruman Lady, the game
is complete.

[GR] Gear List

Stage 1- [T] Three Shot Gear -
In the first shop in the game,
easily accessible. [B] Blast Up
Gear - In the really long
horizontal screen that starts
with a regenerating tree and has
a huge gap in the center, take
the long ladder at the end and
then keep going right to find
the store that sells this. [NH]
Nut Down Gear - Two screens
before the one that has three
rejuvenating trees, in the long
vertical shaft, there is a fake
wall on the right side that you
can break and go through to
access the screen with a door to
a hidden shop. [L] Long Shot
Gear - Same as above. [x2] 2x
Spell Gear - Same as above.

Stage 2-

[DS] Discount Gear - There's a
high door in the second screen
from the very start, but you
can't access it until you get
High Jump. [Hi] High Jump Gear -
Go as far right as you can from
the start. [H] Hovering Gear -
After the first checkpoint there
is a door. [W] Wide Slash Gear -
Same as above. [F] Four Shot
Gear - This is located in the
shop that is behind a
regenerating tree. To get there
you have to go all the way up
and right until you reach a room
with a doctor in it, and then
jump to the high platform in
that room and go back across the
higher route to reach it. [S]
Slash Up Gear - Same as above.
[R] Rapid Attack Gear - Same as
above.

Stage 3- [Bc] Blue Stone Gear -
The top left door out of the 4
will take you to the shop where
this gear is. [Nd] Neo Defense
Gear - Take the top right door
out of the 4, and in this screen
you will find a chest that has
this gear. [Rc] Red Stone Gear -
Head all the way through the ice
place until you see a screen
with two cannons at the top,
then climb as far up as you can
and enter the shop. [Nb] Neo
Blast Gear - In the long
verticle passage after the first
checkpoint destroy a red block
high towards the top to find
this in a chest beyond it. [Q]
Quick Attack Gear - High above
the vertical passage after the
first checkpoint, there is a
room leading to a lone doctor.
You have to destroy the wall
behind him to access a secret
shop. [x3] 3x Spell Gear - Same
as above. [Ns] Neo Slash Gear -
Take the top right path in the
room filled with red and blue
blocks.


=ENDING= [E]

After completing all games,
you'll get a final award, and
the fourth option on the main
menu, Sound will be unlocked.
During the credits there will be
a mini- shooting game in which
you can shoot Arino's head by
pressing A & B. If you beat him
he'll say something, but doing
so takes a LOT of shots. His
head will change colors as he
takes damage.

Finally, the screen will say
"END," but if you wait Arino
will say things for up to 30
minutes. Here's a list of when
and what he says:

10 Seconds: Even if you wait,
there won't be anything. 30
Seconds: I said, even if you
want, there won't be anything! 1
Minute: Don't wait for a minute!
2 Minutes: I'm telling you,
there's nothing. 5 Minutes:
Still waiting? 10 Minutes: You
really have time to kill. 15
Minutes: Bye-bye. 30 Minutes:
See ya.

After this, you can play games
during free play and it will log
your records, so enjoy! I might
make a records section in this
guide in the future if this game
ever gets semi-popular.

=SPECIAL THANKS= [T]

Much thanks to the excellent
Japanese GCCX wiki, which served
as a great reference when
compiling this FAQ: http://www29
.atwiki.jp/ds_gamecenter_cx/