SONIC CHRONICLES: THE DARK
BROTHERHOOD (NINTENDO DS) GAME
GUIDE WRITTEN BY MATT SUTTON
(aka KYLE GON JINN/SCRUFFY)

--------
CONTENTS
--------

SECTION 1 - Version History
SECTION 2 - Introduction SECTION
3 - Game Controls SECTION 4 -
Playable Characters SECTION 5 -
General Tips & Tricks SECTION 6
- Battle Techniques SECTION 7 -
Chao Descriptions SECTION 8 -
Chao Egg Locations SECTION 9 -
Quick Mission Guide SECTION 10 -
Walkthrough SECTION 10.1 -
Chapter 1: Hostile Reception
SECTION 10.2 - Chapter 2: The
Search for Knuckles SECTION 10.3
- Chapter 3: Egghunt SECTION
10.4 - Chapter 4: A Wolf in the
Shadows SECTION 10.5 - Chapter
5: The Battle for Angel Island
SECTION 10.6 - Chapter 6: Black
Hole Sun SECTION 10.7 - Chapter
7: The Quest for the Chaos
Emeralds SECTION 10.8 - Chapter
8: Sector Scylla SECTION 10.9 -
Chapter 9: Sector Charybdis
SECTION 10.10 - Chapter 10:
Citadel Showdown SECTION 11 -
Frequently Asked Questions
SECTION 12 - Legal Details
SECTION 13 - Contact Details
SECTION 14 - Thanks to

---------------------------
SECTION 1 - VERSION HISTORY
---------------------------

Version 0.1
30/9/2008 - Guide started.

Version 1.0 4/10/2008 - First
submission. Guide complete
except for the walkthrough,
quick mission guide and Chao egg
location sections.

Version 2.0 8/10/2008 -
Walkthrough, quick mission guide
and Chao egg location sections
updated to include chapters 4
and 5. FAQ also updated, and
spelling and grammar throughout
the entire guide have been
edited.

Version 3.0 10/10/2008 -
walkthrough, quick mission
guide, and Chao egg location
sections updated to include
chapters 6 and 7. Legal stuff
and character guide also
updated.

Version 4.0 13/10/2008 -
walkthrough, quick mission guide
and Chao egg location sections
updated to include chapter 8.
Thanks to, battle technique and
FAQ sections also updated.

Version 5.0 16/10/2008 - likely
to be the final update. All
sections are now completed.

Version 5.1 1/11/2008 - just an
update to announce that this
guide is now available on
mycheats.com

Version 5.2 8/1/2008 - this
guide is now available on
gamerevolution.com. Also, I've
updated the FAQ.

------------------------
SECTION 2 - INTRODUCTION
------------------------

As a fan of Sonic the Hedgehog
right from the beginning (and
that's been 17 years, folks) who
has been sorely let down by
recent games (Sonic 2006. 'Nuff
said), I was very excited to
hear about Sonic's first
official venture into the RPG
world. After having played the
game, I feel that finally Sonic
the Hedgehog is finally back in
a decent adventure. Whilst not
terribly challenging, the game
has a large enjoyment factor,
and going back to try and find
all the Chao and complete all
the side missions gives it an
extended playability factor. If
you're a Sonic fan or just like
the RPG gender in general, give
this one a go.

Okay, plug done with. Let's move
on. Sonic Chronicles centres
around Sonic being called back
into the action after having
defeated Doctor Eggman and gone
on vacation. The Chaos Emeralds
have been stolen, Knuckles has
been abducted, and a group being
referred to as the Marauders are
showing up all over the place,
giving GUN all sorts of trouble.
Looks like Sonic's day-saving
expertise is needed again...

--------------------
SECTION 3 - CONTROLS
--------------------

You won't need to spend a lot of
time memorising different
buttons for this game. The
stylus and the touch screen are
used for everything in this
game, from controlling your
character's movement to battling
the enemy and navigating the
game's dialogue. The only
buttons used in the game are
START to activate the corner
menu, and L or R to begin a
conversation with someone you're
standing next to (a speech
bubble will appear above their
head). However, you can
accomplish these with the stylus
too.

-------------------------------
SECTION 4 - PLAYABLE CHARACTERS
-------------------------------

The game has 11 playable
characters in total, all with
different abilities and special
attacks. If you haven't found
them all yet, and are trying to
avoid spoilers, you may want to
skip some of this. This section
deals with each character's
abilities, stats and POW
attacks, as well as what POW
attacks I recommend you buy when
they level up. Here they are, in
order of when they join the
team:

SONIC THE HEDGEHOG The fastest
thing alive and the world's
greatest hero, Sonic's constant
defeats of Doctor Eggman have
helped ensure the world's
safety. He never backs down,
never quits, and is always there
to save the day.

CLASS: Power # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 3 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Dash (max level III)
- provides the ability to run
through loops and other speed
areas. SONIC IS THE ONLY
CHARACTER WHO CAN USE LEVEL III
DASH.

POW MOVES: Axe Kick: Sonic
spinballs to deliver a powerful
double kick to a single foe.
Whirlwind: Sonic runs circles
around his foes, lashing them
all with a powerful wind attack.
(Element: Wind) Blue Bomber:
Tails airdrops Sonic to deliver
an extra powerful spinball that
has a chance to weaken the
target. (Needs Tails on team)
Fastball: Amy uses her hammer to
send Sonic spinballing into a
foe for a triple attack that
might make the target sluggish.
(Needs Amy on team) Triple
Tornado: Sonic, Knuckles and
Tails join in on a powerful wind
attack that may leave targets
sluggish. (Element: Wind. Needs
Tails and Knuckles on team) Hail
Storm: Knuckles, Tails and Amy
smash a spinballing Sonic
careening at a single target,
potentially stunning the foe.
(Needs Tails, Knuckles and Amy
on team)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: I suggest
avoiding the wind element
attacks, as many enemies aren't
effected by them. And whilst the
multiple-character attacks do
great damage (especially Hail
Storm - 7 hits if you can pull
it off!), you always have to
have the right team members with
you to use them. Axe Kick is a
good, dependable, solid POW
attack, so when you level up, I
suggest that you buy that one
first.


AMY ROSE A pink hedgehog who
doesn't know when to quit, Amy
is Sonic's self-appointed
girlfriend, despite the fact
that he doesn't want her.
Although this time around, she's
claiming to have a new
boyfriend, Dexter. Believe what
you want.

CLASS: Shifter # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 2 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Dash (max level I) -
provides the ability to run
through loops and other speed
areas. Smash (max level III) -
ability to smash obstacles. AMY
IS THE ONLY CHARACTER WHO CAN
USE LEVEL III SMASH.

POW MOVES: Low Blow: Amy tries
to hit an enemy at its weakest
point, leaving it vulnerable.
Spin Cycle: Amy and Cream attack
their foes as a whirling
dervish, hitting multiple
targets. (Needs Cream on team)
Tantrum: Amy delivers a series
of concussive hammer attacks
that may leave her target
sluggish. Blow Kiss: Amy blows a
kiss to a friend, empowering the
friend to do his or her best!
Tarot Draw: Amy foresees the
future with her tarot deck,
cursing a single foe and causing
the target to miss subsequent
attacks. Flower Power: Amy, Big
and Cream team up for their most
potent attack, likely to leave a
single foe stunned. (Needs Cream
and Big on team)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: I don't
personally like to use moves
that stun or poison enemies. I
prefer to hit them as hard and
fast as possible, to knock them
out quicker. I recommend using
either Low Blow or Tantrum.

MILES "TAILS" PROWER Sonic's
closest friend Tails is a two-
tailed fox, and an engineer and
inventor whose talent and
intellect rivals that of Doctor
Eggman. Once needing Sonic to
always save him, Tails has these
days become more indepent and
self-reliant.

CLASS: Support # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 2 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Fly (max level III) -
ability to fly long distances.

POW MOVES: Scan: Tails scans a
target to find weak points,
leaving it vulnerable. Tinker:
Tails sabotages enemy robots to
leave them distracted and
weakened. (Only works on robots)
Medi Bot: Tails deploys a small
robot equipped with healing tech
to heal a friend. Shield Bot:
Tails deploys a small robot
equipped with a forcefield to
fortify a friend. Flash Bang:
Tails flies up to deploy a flash
grenade that leaves a target
sluggish and distracted. (Non
Robots only) Adrenaline Field:
Tails deploys a temporal field
that gives a friend an extra
action and makes the friend
hyper.

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: I don't
like to use Tails in battle that
much, mainly because he has no

offensive POW attacks. Tinker
and Flash Bang can both be
useful, but I prefer to just use
his regular attack. The Medi Bot
isn't powerful enough to be a
decent healer - you're better
off with Cream for that.

ROUGE THE BAT Rouge is an agent
of GUN, but it is never entirely
clear whether she's working for
the military or simply out for
her own gain. She loves jewels
of all kinds, and has a
reputation for trying to nab the
Chaos and Master Emeralds when
she has the chance.

CLASS: Shifter # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 2 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Stealth - ability to
avoid detection. Fly (max level
II) - ability to fly long
distances.

POW MOVES: Tornado Kick: Rouge
delivers a rapid series of kicks
that creates a damaging wind
attack. (Element: Wind) Jewel
Storm: Rouge throws a handful of
counterfiet gems at the opposing
team. These gems, while small,
are armour piercing. Rising
Knuckle: Rouge and Knuckles team
up for a double attack that may
leave the target stunned. (Needs
Knuckles on team) Plunder: Rouge
feints an attack while stealing
an item from her target.
Distract: Rouge tempts the enemy
with her feminine wiles to keep
their mind off the fight.
Shriek: Rouge directs a shrill
scream at her foe, leaving the
target sluggish.

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Rising
Knuckles is a decent attack, but
you have to be teamed up with
Knuckles to use it. And Tornado
Kick is a wind attack, which
doesn't effect many enemies,
such as robots or Kron. Jewel
Storm isn't heavy hitting, but
it's probably the best of
Rouge's attacks if you don't
have Knuckles.

BIG THE CAT A large cat who
enjoys nothing more than a quiet
afternoon fishing with his best
friend Froggy, Big is sadly
sitting on the opposite end of
the I.Q. scale to Tails or
Eggman. However, he is a devoted
friend and teammate who packs
quite a punch in battle.

CLASS: Support # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 1 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Invulnerable (max
level III) - ability to avoid
most damaging effects. BIG IS
THE ONLY CHARACTER WHO CAN USE
LEVEL III INVULNERABLE.

POW MOVES: Lure Whip: Big casts
his line out to trip up a foe,
potentially leaving the target
stunned. Battering Ram: Big
slams headfirst into a foe,
causing damage and possibly
distracting the target. Taunt:
Big attracts one foe's attention
away from Big's friends and
fortifies himself against
damage. Froggy Poison: Big
deploys Froggy to kiss a target,
leaving the foe poisoned. Feel
No Pain: Big gets so excited
about the fight that he hardly
even notices incoming damage.
Froggy Rain: Big asks Froggy to
summon his friends, causing a
rain of frogs to drop on the
opposing team.

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Big's a
great battle character. Feel No
Pain is an excellent healing
move, which restores health to
you for three rounds.
Offensively, Froggy Rain is good
for hitting several targets at
once, but Battering Ram is the
best attack for doing lots of
damage.

KNUCKLES THE ECHIDNA Knuckles is
the guardian of Angel Island and
the Master Emerald (which looks
surprisingly small in this game.
What's up with that?). He has a
long history of rivalry with
Sonic, as well as a reputation
for being easily tricked or
fooled. He's a powerful fighter
with a short temper and an
unbreakable devotion to his
duty.

CLASS: Power # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 2 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Fly (max level I) -
ability to fly long distances.
Smash (max level II) - ability
to smash obstacles. Climb -
Ability to climb some surfaces.

POW MOVES: Uppercut: Knuckles
focuses his best punch into an
attack that ignores armour.
Quake Punch: Knuckles pounds the
ground, causing an unavoidable
earth attack that may stun the
entire opposing team. (Element:
Earth) Revolver Slam: Sonic
sends Knuckles flying for a
devastating punch that ignores
armour and may leave the target
vulnerable. (Needs Sonic on
team) Knuckles Express: Shadow
sends Knuckles flying for a
sweeping attack that may
distract the entire opposing
team. (Needs Shadow on team)
Knuckles Sandwich: Knuckles
throws both Amy and Sonic as
weapons in a brutal attack that
may stun the target. (Needs
Sonic and Amy on team) Hard
Line: Knuckles teams up with
Shadow and Shade to deliver a
crushing attack likely to
distract the target. (Needs
Shadow and Shade on team)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Like Sonic,
Knuckles has a lot of POW moves
which require others to be on
the team. They're great if you
have them, but otherwise I
recommend Uppercut, which does a
lot of damage. Quake Punch is
good to, but as an elemental
attack, it won't work on
everything.

CREAM THE RABBIT A good friend
of Amy's, Cream is followed
everywhere by her Chao named
Cheese. Whilst she doesn't like
fighting, she has come to terms
with the fact that she can help
Sonic, and is one of the most
useful characters on the team.

CLASS: Support # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 1 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Fly (max level III) -
ability to fly long distances.

POW MOVES: Refresh: Cream
performs a cheer that restores
PP to her team. Demoralise:
Cream performs a cheer that
distracts the opposing team.
Cure: Cream performs a cheer
that will clear negative status
effects on her friends. Revive:
Cream performs a cheer that can
revive a KO'd friend. Heal:
Cream performs a cheer that
restores HP to her team. Tough:
Cream performs a cheer that
fortifies a friend.

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Cream is
one of the most useful members
of the team, as her Refresh
ability can allow you to use as
many POW attacks in a battle as
you want. Heal and Revive are
great too, but Refresh is
definately the one you want.

DOCTOR EGGMAN An evil genius who
boasts an I.Q. of 300, Doctor
Eggman is Sonic's prime nemesis.
He takes great delight in
building robots, all with one
single purpose - destroy Sonic
the Hedgehog, and usher in
Eggman's vision of world
domination.

CLASS: Shifter # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 1 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: None.

POW MOVES Bombardment: Eggman
calls down an artillery barrage
on the opposing team,
potentially leaving them
sluggish. Sabotage: Tails joins
Eggman to quickly and
aggressively dismantle a robot.
(Needs Tails. Only works on
robots)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS Sabotage is
a pretty powerful move - instant
KO if it is pulled off
successfully. However, it only
works on robots, and you need to
have Tails on your team (but
neither of those are issues in
chapter five). Bombardment does
a lot of damage, and to the
whole opposing team. It's my
preference.

SHADOW THE HEDGEHOG The Ultimate
Lifeform, Shadow also has a
rivalry with Sonic. This guy is
the emo of the cast, who spent
years after his freedom from
incarceration attempting to find
his purpose. Unsure of whether
he was supposed to be evil or
good, he dabbled in both before
finding out that he was created
to save the world. He has since
joined GUN and developed
friendships with Rouge and
Omega, but he's still very much
a lone wolf who does whatever he
feels is best, no matter what
anyone else may think.

CLASS: Power # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 3 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Teleport - teleport
short distances. Dash (max level
II) - provides the ability to
run through loops and other
speed areas.

POW MOVES: Chaos Spear: Shadow
hurls spears of raw chaos energy
that ignore armour. Chaos Rift:
Shadow opens a rift in time and
space meant to banish a foe. If
the target remains, he may
become distracted. Chaos Blast:
Shadow delivers an explosion of
chaos energy that may weaken
effected targets. Atomic Strike:
Shadow and Sonic rapidly
spinball around the opposing
team to create a devastating
electrical attack. (Element:
Electricity. Needs Sonic on
team) Focus Field: Shadow and
Omega combine their strongest
attacks on one target, damaging
it and possibly leaving it
vulnerable. (Needs Omega on
team) Metal Storm: Shadow and
Rouge use Omega as a torpedo in
a brutal attack that has a
chance to stun a foe. (Needs
Omega and Rouge on team)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: As I said
before, I prefer to use the
attacks not dependent on other
characters. But in the case of
Atomic Strike, maybe I'd make an
exception. It does heavy damage
to the whole team, and even if
the opposing team isn't
vulnerable to electric attacks,
if you boot it up to level III,
it'll still do a lot of damage.
And because it's a team-up with
Sonic, he'll always be on your
team, with the possible
exception of Metropolis, Angel
Island, and Nocturne. (thanks to
xShadowoftheNight for this tip!)

That said, in my opinion Chaos
Spear is probably Shadow's best
attack. Blast is also good, but
be wary of Chaos Rift. It
completely neutralises a target
if it succeeds, but even on
level III, that's only a 60%
chance. If the move fails, then
you've wasted a turn and PP.

E-123 OMEGA The final and most
powerful of Doctor Eggman's
E-Series robots, Omega carries
serious weaponry and a powerful
grudge for his creator and
former master. He works
willingly with Shadow and Rouge,
both of whom have earned his
respect, but is reluctant to
trust few others.

CLASS: Power # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 1 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Smash (max level II)
- ability to smash obstacles.
Invulnerable (max level II) -
ability to avoid most damaging
effects.

POW MOVES: Flamethrower: Omega
reconfigures his claws to
deliver a fire attack that hits
multiple targets. (Element:
Fire) Beam Cannon: Omega
reconfigures his claws to
deliver a devastating laser beam
that ignores armour. Blazing
Tornado: Rouge channels Omega's
fire attack into a fiery
exploding kick. (Element: Fire.
Needs Rouge on team) Wrecking
Ball: Omega launches Big at a
target, causing damage to and
possibly distracting adjacent
foes. (Needs Big on team)
Temporal Field: Omega deploys a
temporal field that phases a
friend and makes that friend
hyper. Machine Gunner: Omega
reconfigures his claws as
gatling guns, delivering full-
auto attacks to the opposing
team.

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Beam Cannon
for the win. This attack does
serious damage to the enemies.
Machine Gunner and Flamethrower
are good too (keep in mind that
elemental attacks aren't always
effective though), but Beam
Cannon is definately the one you
want.

SHADE One of the highest ranked
Marauders, this echidna rebelled
and joined Sonic's team after
learning that her master,
General Ix, was looking for more
than freeing their people.
Whilst Knuckles is stunned and
thrilled at the prospect of
having a fellow echidna as
company, can the team really
trust this mysterious stranger?

CLASS: Power # OF ATTACKS EACH
BATTLE ROUND: 2 MOVEMENT
ABILITIES: Teleport - teleport
short distances. Stealth -
ability to avoid detection.
Climb - Ability to climb some
surfaces.

POW MOVES: Cloak: Shade
activates her cloaking field,
making her faster and harder to
hit in combat. Blade Rush: Shade
rushes the enemy and delivers a
brutal five-hit combo with her
leech blade. Echidna Rush: Shade
and Knuckles team up to deliver
a powerful attack that ignores
armour and may also leave the
enemy distracted. (Needs
Knuckles on team) Blade Drop:
Sonic propels Shade into her
target to deliver a leech blade
attack that ignores armour.
(Needs Sonic on team)

POW RECOMMENDATIONS: Unless you
have Sonic or Knuckles on your
team, Blade Rush is Shade's only
offensive POW. But it does
decent damage.

--------------------------------
SECTION 5 - GENERAL TIPS &
TRICKS
--------------------------------

Here are some ideas that I hope
will help you with progressing
through the game. For help with
battles, see section six.

Explore the area maps
thoroughly. There are Chao and
item boxes littered across the
landscape, all of which can
help.

Items can be not only bought in
stores, but also sold. If you're
short on rings and carrying lots
of items you won't use, trade
them in for a quick profit.

Try to assemble a team which
will be able to progress through
any area without having to
return to a point where you can
switch team members.
Invulnerable, sneak and teleport
aren't used that much in the
game except for several specific
areas, so don't worry too much
about teammates who can use
them. Ideally, you want a team
with dash (which you get with
Sonic anyway), climb, fly, and
smash to get you through just
about any environment.

Alternatively, you can always go
back with different characters
to access areas that others
could not, if you prefer to go
with characters such as Big,
Omega, or Shadow. Whilst not
always useful in the field, they
can be very handy to have in
battle. Go with what you feel
more comfortable with.

Take the time to assist people
with side missions. Once
completed, you'll be awarded
with extra items and experience
points.

Be aware that when you switch to
a lower levelled team member,
they will receive the same
amount of experience points that
the rest of your team has
(although everyone levels up at
different numbers - thanks to QA
Monkey for this tip!) This is
great, since you don't have to
keep switching teammates and
battling them to level up all at
the same time.

Also something to keep in mind
is that your team will
occasionally have two
objectives, requiring you to
split into two teams of four.
Choose carefully who you want on
each team, because you won't be
able to switch characters after
a certain amount of
progress.You'll find that the
two characters assigned to each
team will have the abilities
needed to get to the main
objective, so you may want to
focus on balancing each team for
battle. On the other hand, keep
in mind that a team without
abilities such as smash or climb
may lose the oppurtunity to
complete side missions or
collect hard to reach items and
Chao.

-----------------------------
SECTION 6 - BATTLE TECHNIQUES
-----------------------------

This section describes how
battling works, and gives you
some general tips and ideas to
prevail.

When you encounter an enemy in
the field, you are taken to the
battle screen. If your team's
speed and/or luck are higher
than the enemy's, then you may
ambush them, which means that
each character on your team gets
a sneak attack in before the
battle begins. However, they get
the same chance if their stats
are higher.

You begin by choosing what
actions you want each of your
characters to take for the
round.

Attack - if you choose this
option, each of the turns your
character has for the round they
will use their standard attack
on whichever enemy you choose.
If that enemy is knocked out
prior, your character will pick
another enemy remaining at
random to attack. If your
character has more than one turn
per round, you can get them to
use a POW move or an item first
and then attack, if you want.

POW moves - You pick one of your
character's special attacks, and
select a target to use it on. If
it's a defensive move, such as
heal, you may use it on yourself
if you wish. You can use as many
POW moves per round as turns you
get
- for instance, Sonic can use
  Axe Kick up to three times per
  round, but Big
may only use Battering Ram once
per round. After choosing who to
use a POW move on, if your
character will have another turn
left that round, you may then
choose what that character will
do next. POW moves use up PP
(for instance, Sonic's Axe Kick
costs 3 PP), so you can't use a
POW move if your character
doesn't have enough PP. You can
restore PP by using the Defend
option, using an item such as
POW Candy or Gum, or by getting
Cream to use her Refresh POW
move.

Defend - choosing this option
will make your character adopt a
defensive stance for the whole
round. They will take less
damage if an enemy hits them,
and will regain some PP for each
turn they have that round. If
you want to use an attack or
item that round as well as
defending, choose defend last.

Items - you can pick from a
range of items you're carrying
to use during your turn, and who
to use them on. These are things
that will improve your
character's health, PP, or
stats, or to revive them if
they've been knocked out. You
can use as many items as your
character has turns - for
instance, Sonic may use three
items per round.

Flee - if you don't want to
battle for some reason (maybe
you're getting or will be
severely beaten, or you're just
in a hurry), you can attempt to
escape. This will involve all
your remaining conscious
characters running away to the
left. There will be obstacles in
their path though, so whenever
your character approaches one,
tap them with the stylus to jump
it. Hitting an obstacle will
slow you down and take health
from that character. Running
over a dash ramp speeds you up,
so don't jump them. If the
enemies don't catch up to you,
you escape. If they catch you
though, they get a whole round
to attack you without being
attacked themselves. However,
this works for both sides. If
the enemies flee and you catch
them, you get a free round to
attack them.

Once you've chosen your moves
for each character, the battle
begins. The character with the
highest speed (on either team)
will go first, and then progress
will proceed to the next fastest
character and so on. Depending
how much faster a character is,
they may get their second attack
in before the slower characters
even have their first. The aim
of battling is obviously to
knock out all of the opposing
team. You do this by hitting
them either with standard
attacks or POW moves to chip
away their HP. Battle will
continue until either team has
been completely knocked out. If
you win, you'll be rewarded with
exerience points and a random
item. If your team is defeated,
you'll be given the option to
retry the battle for a cost of
twenty rings, or to reload the
game from your last save.

TIPS FOR BATTLING

Cream is an invaluable addition
to your team. She not only has
the ability to heal and revive
your party members, but she can
also restore their PP with her
POW move Refresh, allowing them
more POW attacks. Add her to
your team as soon as you can -
which is pretty much as soon as
you rescue Knuckles.

When you use a POW move, you'll
be required to tap a number of
circles on the touch screen to
successfully activate it. There
are three different types of
patterns this may involve. The
first is where blue circles
appear on the screen, with a
blue ring around them that
slowly gets smaller until it
hits the circle. When it does
this, it will turn green. You
need to tap the circles in the
order they appear, ONCE THEY
TURN GREEN. Tapping them before
that doesn't work. The second
pattern will have a line of red
dots, and a blue ring
approaching it. You have to
trace the ring's progress from
the start of the line to the
end, at the same time that the
ring moves across it. The third
pattern involves a larger circle
with smaller red dots inside of
it, and a larger ring getting
smaller around it. This one is
the easiest. You need to quickly
tap this circle eight times
before the ring hits it. Once
the tapping patterns are done,
your character will complete the
POW move, depending upon how
accurate you were.

Learn the patterns used for each
POW move - they're always the
same. Remembering what the
pattern is makes it easier to
tap.

The enemies can use POW moves
too, but you will get a chance
to defend yourself. The same
three tapping patterns will
appear on the touch screen. If
you tap them all correcty,
you'll take no or minimal
damage. You can save yourself a
lot of health and grief by
remembering the patterns to
expect from their POW moves as
well as your own.

Chao can be a huge help to you
in battle. Once bonded to a
character, they can lend you a
special skill to make battles go
smoother for you. Familiarise
yourself with them and bond them
to your party. Some of the most
useful Chao for battle are:

Bobo - you'll get an extra item
after battle. Choopaloo -
increases the amount of
experience points you get after
battle. Ferox - bonded
character's POW moves are always
successful. Joy - regenerates
some HP for the whole team after
each round

My personal recommendation is if
you catch a Ferox, you should
bond it with Cream. Her POW
moves can be tricky, and there's
nothing worse than not being
able to heal your party when
you're fighting a boss just
because you can't tap the right
pattern.

Try to Memorise the names of any
POW moves or items you might
want to use in battle, as once
the battle commences, there are
no descriptions for them
available. It's really
frustrating to find you've
selected the wrong POW move, or
if you want to revive a
character to full health, and
use a revival ring instead of a
ring of life.

Don't be stingy with using items
if you need to. You can almost
always buy more later, so use
them when you need them.

Consider your strategy when you
battle. Usually it is better to
focus your team on the enemy
with the lowest HP first, to
knock it out quicker. Then
proceed to the enemy with the
next lowest HP. This means there
will be fewer enemies to attack
you when it's their turn.

Alternatively, the enemies with
the higher HPs are usually the
ones with the stronger attacks -
bosses especially. In the case
of bosses, it's usually better
to take out the stronger
opponent first, then worry about
the weaker ones.

Also consider how many turns
each character gets per round,
and use that to your advantage.
Do you want Sonic to attack or
defend for all three of his
turns, or would a combination be
better? You could use an item,
use a POW move, and defend
yourself all in the one round -
although if you wait until the
third turn to use Defend,
chances are that none of your
enemies will have any turns left
for that round by then, so
you'll still have fully taken
any damage they hit you with
prior.

Some enemies have the ability to
revive themselves (such as
Swatbots), or revive others
(usually bosses) after being
knocked out. If you're facing an
opponent who can revive others
on its team, then you need to
take down that guy first. It's
no use knocking out the other
enemies if this guy's just going
to wake them up again. Knock him
out, and he can't work his
hoodoo any more. Self-reviving
enemies need to be saved for
last. Knock out the ones that
won't wake up, then finish the
revivers. If there are two
enemies that can revive
themselves, you'll need to
finish both off them in the same
round, otherwise the one you
knock out will come back for
more.

Don't avoid battles if you can
help it. They can get a bit
tedious after awhile, but you'll
need the experience points to
level your characters up to the
point where they can survive
fighting stronger enemies later
in the game.

I think that's about it, really.
A lot of battle strategy comes
down to personal proferences -
what you feel you ought to be
doing. The above is nothing more
than advice. Feel free to use it
as you wish.

And if you want to know my
character preferences, check the
FAQ section. ;)

-----------------------------
SECTION 7 - CHAO DESCRIPTIONS
-----------------------------

There are currently 40 Chao to
find in the game which, when
bonded with a character on your
team, will give them a special
benefit in battle or the field.
When you pick up a Chao egg, it
will hatch randomly a few
minutes later into one of the
following:

BARBO Increases maximum HP of
bonded character. Common

BELGOG Bonded character is much
harder to hit. Rare

BEPKE One enemy will
automatically attack the bonded
character instead of other team
members. Rare

BLAYZE Bonded character does
much more damage in battle. Rare

BOBO Bonded character will
always find an extra reward item
after combat. Rare

CHEESE Greatly increases luck of
all team members. Unique (Cheese
does not hatch from an egg, and
can only be found by adding
Cream to your team)

CHEEZLET Bonded character does
more damage in battle. Common

CHOO Bonded character
regenerates PP at the start of
each combat round Common

CHOOPALOO Increases XP gained
from each battle. Unique

CHURDLE Bonded character has a
better chance of hitting targets
in battle. Common

DUSTY Increases the chance that
the team will catch a fleeing
opponent. Rare

FEROX Bonded character
automatically succeeds using
their POW moves. Unique

FESS Increases odds that Chao
eggs will hatch into rare or
unique Chao. Rare

GHISE Bonded character's attacks
do water damage. Common

GIBBER Bonded character has
greatly increased resistance to
damage. Rare

GRIFF Bonded character's attacks
do Ice damage. Common

HAYDA Regenerates PP at the
start of combat round for all
team members. Rare

JIRNA Chao creates an earth
shield to protect against
damage. Common

JOY Regenerates HP at the start
of every combat round for all
team members. Rare

KAYLA Reduces the team's chance
of being ambushed. Rare

KEROYO Increases the odds of
enemies fleeing from battle.
Rare

KNICKT Chao creates a shield of
lightning to protect against
damage. Common

KOOLET Bonded character is
harder to hit. Common

KORUS Chao creates a shield of
fire to protect against damage.
Common

LUUNAN Greatly increases Maximum
PP of bonded character. Rare

OLDARG Bonded character has a
greatly increased chance to hit
targets in battle. Rare

OOLEAN Increases Maximum PP of
bonded character. Common

OVUS Bonded character is
automatically revived once
during a battle. Unique

PERTY Chao creates a shield of
water to protect against damage.
Common

PYRAZ Bonded character's attacks
do fire damage. Common

RADU Greatly increases maximum
HP of bonded character. Rare

RUGLE Bonded character has
increased luck. Common

SEERI Chao creates a shield of
wind to protect against damage
Common

SEGGO Bonded character's attacks
do wind damage Common

SPARTOI Bonded character's basic
attacks may cause instant KO
against enemies. Unique

STEBSLY Bonded character
regenerates HP at the start of
every combat round. Common

STIGLIN Bonded character's
attacks do earth damage. Common

VELK Bonded character has
increased resistance to damage.
Common

ZIMBA Bonded character's attacks
do lightning damage. Common

ZOUSAR Increases the team's
chances of ambushing opposing
teams. Rare

Thanks to SonicTrainer, who gave
me the information regarding the
ones I was missing at the time I
wrote this (although I now have
all 40).

------------------------------
SECTION 8 - CHAO EGG LOCATIONS
------------------------------

Here's where to find the Chao
eggs hidden throughout the game.
See the walkthrough for a more
detailed description. More
locations coming in each update!

GREEN HILL ZONE #1 - Just above
the first loop of the game. #2 -
Near where Amy first appeared
and smashed the boxes, on the
right. #3 - Near the bridge
switch puzzle, on the right #4 -
At the top of the middle series
of small cliffs - the one with
the dash ramp. #5 - Near the top
of the tall mountain range to
the west - near the dash ramp.
(Needs level II smash) #6 - On
the middle island in the south
east corner. (Needs fly) #7 - On
the bottom part of an island in
the north west corner. (Needs
fly) #8 - Inside the abandoned
Eggman base in the middle of the
map screen. (Needs fly) #9 - At
the top of the climbing wall
just to the left of the Central
City entrance. (Needs climb) #10
- Jump up the stepping stones of
the uppermost of the small
cliffs, and fly across the gap.
Climb up the wall, smash the
boxes, and get the egg. (Needs
fly, climb, and smash level II)
#11 - From the last egg, go over
the dash ramp, across the ledges
to and down the next dash ramp.
Then fly over to the ledge on
the right.

CENTRAL CITY #1 - To the right
of Tails' workshop. #2 - Where
you fight the Swatbots for the
Mechanical Muggers mission.
(Needs dash) #3 - On the rooftop
where you fight the queen wasp.
(Needs dash and fly) #4 - On a
rooftop to the right of where
you land after going down the
pipe's dash panel (Needs dash
and fly) #5 - From the previous
egg, fly to the roof on the
right. (Needs dash and fly) #6 -
From #5, use the dash ramp on
that roof. (Needs dash and fly)
#7 - Behind some boxes near the
abandoned manhole Eggman base.
(Needs level II smash) #8 - At
the top of a climbing wall
behind some boxes. Get there
from the road leading to Mystic
Ruins. (Needs climb and level II
smash)

MYSTIC RUINS #1 - In the
building in the north west
corner of the map. (Needs
invulnerable) #2 - On a ledge
above where your plane lands.
(Needs invulnerable) #3 - On an
island to the right of egg #2.
(Needs fly) #4 - From there, go
down to the island below you,
and you'll find the egg behind
the gas cloud. (Needs fly and
invulnerable) #5 - On the broken
dock at the top of the map, near
egg #3. Get there from shore on
the right. (Needs fly) #6 - In
the south east corner of the
map. Go through the gas cloud
and use the dash ramp to get to
it. #7 - Outside the building
where Knuckles is held captive.
Solve the fan puzzle to reach
it. (Needs fly) #8 - Inside the
prison, behind some boxes. From
the entrance, go into the
corridor, and it's the first
door on the left. (Needs fly and
smash) #9 - From there, go back
to the corridor, through the
door on the left, and through
the electricity into the next
room, and smash the boxes.
(Needs fly, invulnerable, and
smash) #10 - In Knuckles' cell.
You'll have to come back for it
after you free him. (Needs fly)
#11 - In the top room of the
tower in the south west area of
the map. Go through the gas
cloud near the fans as Big, dash
across the ramp, and climb up
the wall to get there. (Needs
invulnerable, dash and climb)

BLUE RIDGE ZONE #1 - On the roof
of the building next to the guy
who wants you to warn the power
plant. Get there by jumping on
the red stepping stone to the
left of him, and flying up.
(Needs fly level II) #2 - Jump
back down the rooftops, and
you'll find a fly point on the
roof right next to the stepping
stone you used to get up there.
Fly to the green roof, and
follow the rooftops in a
northeast direction. Use the
spring, and fly to a tower where
the egg is. (Needs fly level II)
#3 - On the left of the path
underneath the old man who wants
you to find Timmy. #4 - On the
ledge to the right of #3. Follow
the path to the right and use
the spring. #5 - Take the spring
on the ledge where you found #4,
and take the fly point to
another ledge. (Needs fly level
II) #6 - Inside the well on the
west side of the map. #7 - Use
the dash ramp near #6, and fly
across to the ledge to the left.
Take the spring to the egg.
(Needs dash and level II fly) #8
- Take the dash ramp near the
power plant, and you'll find the
egg at the far end of the ledge,
behind some boxes. (Needs level
II dash and level II smash) #9 -
Take the dash ramp near egg #8
and jump on the spring. (Needs
level II dash) #10 - Jump off
the balcony at the factory, and
you'll find the egg on the far
right. (Needs level II smash)

METROPOLIS #1 - The far right
end of the first tunnel after
you select your teams. #2 - On a
ledge above the building on the
lower left. Climb up to it, and
fly up to a spring that will
take you to the egg. (Needs
climb and fly) #3 - On the roof
to the right of the roof under
#2. (Needs climb) #4 - Up the
stairs near where you first
enter the city with Sonic's
team. #5 - Along the path up
past the stairs to egg #4, and
the first left fork. #6 - At the
top of the climbable wall just
to the right of the airbase.
(Needs climb) #7 - Just under
the item box where you find the
weapons parts in the north side
of the city. #8 - Climb the
escalator in the north part of
the city, and take the fly point
on the right side. (Needs fly
level III) #9 - From the
escalator tower, fly to the
tower on the left. Take the top
fly point, and take the fly
point from there. (Needs level
III fly) #10 - From the
escalator tower, fly to the
tower on the left. Jump to the
bottom ledge, and take the left
fly point. (Needs level III fly)
#11 - From #10, fly over the
railing on the right and jump
down to the roof. It is near the
spring. (Needs level II fly)

ANGEL ISLAND #1 - On an island
just to the left of the starting
point. (Needs level II fly) #2 -
On the left side of the island,
on a rock near a spring. #3 -
The top part of the map, on the
top of a climbing wall. (Needs
climb) #4 - The bottom right
corner of the map, beside a
creek.

METROPOLIS GROUND ZERO #1 - To
your immediate left from the
start. #2 - On the roof of the
building on the far left of the
map. (Needs climb) #3 - In the
generator room at the top of the
ramp on the building in the
south east corner. #4 - In the
bottom right corner of the
Hazard Vault, where you get the
dimensional buffer. (Needs level
III smash) #5 - Take the dash
ramp outside the Hazard Vault,
and use the spring it takes you
to. (Needs dash)

KRON COLONY #1 - Up a ramp to
the right of the ship. (Needs
level III smash) #2 - Near
Nestor the Wise's cave. #3 - In
a pit to the left of where you
fight the Kron who thinks you're
Nocturnus. #4 - Inside the first
cave that leads to the Kron
foreman. (Needs level III smash)
#5 - Outside the cave where you
got #4, follow the path all the
way to the right. (Needs level
III smash) #6 - Just south of
the spring that takes you to the
conveyor belt. (Needs level III
smash) #7 - Nearby when you get
off the conveyor belt. (Needs
level III smash) #8 - From #7,
follow the path until you come
to a fork, and choose the right
path. (Needs level III smash)

N'RRGAL COLONY #1 - Near the
start, in a slime pit in the
bottom right corner of the map.
#2 - To the right of the N'rrgal
who wants you to find the source
of the poisoning. (Needs level
III invulnerable) #3 - In a pit
under the dash ramp on the left
side of the map. (Needs level
III invulnerable) #4 - In the
top right corner of the map,
behind a box to smash. (Needs
level III dash, level III smash,
and level III invulnerable) #5 -
On the ledge near the N'rrgal
Queen's cave. (Needs level III
dash and level II invulnerable)

ZOAH COLONY #1 - In an alley
behind the item store. #2 - On a
rooftop you reach through the
doorway in the lower right
corner of the map. #3 - On the
roof of the citadel. Use the fly
point next to the ramp above the
citadel, and then use the next
fly point to get there. (Needs
level II fly) #4 - On a ledge
you get to from a dash ramp by
the number puzzle, and then by
jumping down from the roof.
(Needs dash) #5 - Take the dash
ramp near the fly point that
took you to egg #3. (Needs level
II dash)

VOXAI COLONY BETA #1 - Directly
south from your starting
position. #2 - In the top right
corner of the map, inside the
pink crystal. (Needs teleport)
#3 - In the house next to egg
#2. #4 - In a pink crystal on
the left side of the map. Take
the teleporter behind the dash
ramp near egg #2 to get there.
(Needs teleport) #5 - Take the
teleporter south of egg #4 to
reach an island at the top of
the map for this egg. (Needs
teleport)

VOXAI COLONY ALPHA #1 - From the
start, teleport off the ledge to
the left, teleport out, and
you'll find it on the ledge
beneath you. #2 - In one those
pink crystals you teleport into
on the left side of the map.
(Needs fly and teleport) #3 - To
the south of #2. Teleport into
the pink crystal on the left
that has a spring. (Needs fly
and teleport) #4 - To the right
of #3. Go to the pink crystal on
the right, teleport in, and
teleport to the next one on the
right. (Needs fly and teleport)
#5 - In the bottom left corner
of the map, behind a box. (Needs
teleport, fly, and level III
smash) #6 - In the bottom right
corner. Teleport into the pink
crystal next to the dash ramp,
then go down the path and
teleport into the next one.
(Needs teleport, fly, and level
II dash)

NOCTURNE #1 - From the start, go
through the doorway on the left
(once you've unlocked it).
Inside, use the spring. There's
a doorway near the deactivated
gizoid. Go outside and take the
level III fly point to the egg.
(Needs level III fly) Thanks to
Shane (Mayor_Quimby) for the
tip! #2 - Go back to the room
where you found the doorway to
egg #1, but instead of using the
spring, take the path to the
right. Outside, the egg is to
your right. #3 - From egg #2, go
back to the left and through the
second door you see (at the top
of the ramp). Inside, the egg is
on a ledge to the far left, use
fly to get it. (Needs fly) #4 -
On Knuckles' team, after passing
the laser turret, go around to
the right instead of through the
door. Fly across the gap to the
egg. #5 - From #3, climb the
wall then go to your left and
use the fly point to reach
another ledge. Climb the wall at
the end, and the egg is up
there. #6 - Go along the first
dash ramp with Sonic, and it's
right there when you stop. #7 -
Once you reach the underwater
area, go all the way along the
path to the upper left to find
the next egg. #8 - From there,
go back and take the doorway on
the right. In that room, take
the right doorway again, and the
egg is on the right. #9 - After
defeating Scylla with Knuckles,
go through the door. You'll find
the egg in the left corner. #10
- After getting control of
Knuckles again, leave the room,
go up onto the rooftop and jump
down to the platform. The egg is
at the far right. #11 - After
going up the elevator with
Sonic, go around to the ledge on
the right, where there's a
spring. It will take you to the
egg.

-------------------------------
SECTION 9 - QUICK MISSION GUIDE
-------------------------------

I provide for you here a brief
rundown of all the missions
available to be activated in
each chapter. See the
walkthrough for a more detailed
description of how to complete
them.

CHAPTER ONE Hostile Reception -
you need to make your way to
Central City, then meet with
Tails, Rouge and the GUN
Commander. The Tired Old
Woodsman - chop a few logs of
wood for an old man right near
the start.

CHAPTER TWO The Search for
Knuckles - investigate abandoned
Eggman bases to find
communicators that will lead you
to where Knuckles is being held
prisoner in the Mystic Ruins.
Mechanical Muggers - Destroy a
group of Swatbots in Central
City that have been giving GUN
trouble. Queen of the Swarm -
Defeat a queen wasp on the
rooftops that has been
terrorising the city. Cream and
Cheese - Find Cream's pet Chao,
Cheese. Stop the Signal -
Deactivate three signal
projectors in the Green Hill
Zone which are making the local
wildlife turn vicious.

CHAPTER THREE Egghunt - follow
your new tracking device to try
and track down Eggman. Norton is
Missing! - search the Green Hill
Zone to find four frogs. No
matter what order you find them
in, the last one is always
Norton. Chasing Shadow - follow
Shadow to Mystic Ruins, and find
out why he's giving off an
Eggman signal. The Forgetful
Swatbot - talk to the Swatbot
outside one of Eggman's old
bases you searched earlier in
Central City. Strange Eggman
Devices - Each of the signals
you find leads to a strange
device. Find all five of them to
get past the forcefield in Green
Hill Zone. Buyer Beware! - Meet
the storekeeper and retrieve his
prized stapler for him, which he
traded to a sneaky conman
hanging around the Green Hill
Zone. A Young Boy in Trouble! -
rescue a boy in a cave in Green
Hill Zone from giant scorpions,
and return him to his father in
Central City. Attack of the
Roboarmadillos - roboticised
armadillos are appearing in
Mystic Ruins. Find the source of
the problem and stop it.

CHAPTER FOUR A Wolf in the
Shadows - make your way through
the Blue Ridge Zone to
Metropolis. Deliver the Warning!
- head to the power plant and
warn them before the turn the
power on, then return to the
worker who warned you. Man in
the Booth - bring the man in the
outhouse a copy of the Blue
Ridge Times from the item shop.
The Search for Omega - find and
reactivate Omega in a building
in north west Metropolis.
Timmy's in Trouble! - find the
well where Timmy is, and escort
him home. GUN Escort - escort
the GUN Official back to Station
Square.

CHAPTER FIVE The Battle for
Angel Island - split your team
in two. Sonic's team needs to
catch a ride to Angel Island and
stop the Nocturnus from taking
the Master Emerald. Tails' team
needs to scour Metropolis for
weapons parts and play backup
for Sonic's team.

CHAPTER SIX Black Hole Sun -
restore power to the city by
reactivating three generators,
and bring the dimensional buffer
to Tails and Eggman.

CHAPTER SEVEN Journey into the
Unknown - meet the Kron foreman,
Krag, then gain entry to the
factory where the first Chaos
Emerald is being held. Secret
Operations - bring Rouge five
pieces of Nocturnus tech. Relics
of the Past - gather Nocturnus
relics from the colonies, and
bring them back to Nestor.

CHAPTER EIGHT Sector Scylla -
defeat the Zoah general to win
their Chaos Emerald, then return
to N'rrgal Colony to get the
third emerald. Poisoned the
N'rrgal Supply - go into the
cave on the left side of the map
and destroy the Swatbot
poisoning the spawning ponds.
The Argus Event - find the
precursor tablets scattered
across the colonies, and bring
them to Nestor to decipher. The
Nightstalker The Nightstalker
:Haniman The Nightstalker :Telra
- get information from friendly
Zoah about the Nightstalker,
then talk to Haniman and defeat
the "beast" when it attacks.
Pirates of the Twilight Cage
Pirates: N'rrgal Shipment -
gather information about the
Twilight Cage pirates, then
deliver the shipment from
N'rrgal to Kron Colonies,
defeating the pirates when they
try to steal it from you.

CHAPTER NINE Sector Charybdis -
liberate the Voxai from the
control of the Overminds.
Overmind Interference - find the
Nocturnus blocking Croesius'
link to the Overmind and take
them out. Not for a nice dinner.
:P

CHAPTER TEN Citadel Showdown -
Defeat the gizoid prefects
Scylla and Charyb to get the
last two Chaos Emeralds, then
face Ix for the final battle.

------------------------
SECTION 10 - WALKTHROUGH
------------------------

This area will walk you through
the entire game, telling you how
to find every ring and egg, and
complete every mission. If you
notice any mistakes or errors
I've made in this walkthrough,
please email me to let me know,
so that I can fix it! -
mattsutton@y7mail.com

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.1 - CHAPTER ONE:
HOSTILE RECEPTION
--------------------------------

GREEN HILL ZONE

After the Intro, you'll have
your first experience at making
conversation, and you'll
discover that you can regularly
choose from several different
things to say. Generally, the
first option is usually the way
to end a conversation quickly if
you're in a hurry, but you'll
get more information by picking
others, so explore your options.

MISSION: Hostile Reception

With the current emergency,
finding Knuckles is the highest
priority. You need to meet with
Tails, and to Sonic's dismay,
his foxy friend has decided to
send Amy to escort you to his
workshop. You'll find yourself
standing on an island off the
north shore of Green Hill Zone,
and standing on the first of the
area's 185 rings. Collect as
many of these as you can, as you
use them for buying items in
stores. Follow the trail of
rings - three more will lead you
to a classic Green Hill loop. A
button with a downwards pointing
arrow will appear, indicating
you can jump onto it. Tap the
button, grab the rings, and when
you approach the loop a dash
button (two right-pointing
arrows) will appear. (Ring
Count: 13) Tap it to speed
through the loop. As you zoom
through, you'll spot more rings
and Chao egg #1 to the north. Go
grab them. This is the first of
eleven eggs in the area. Go back
and run past the man standing
there. To his left is an item
box - run over to it, and press
the button that appears to open
it. Then go back to the man and
have a chat with him.

MISSION: The Tired Old Woodsman

This is an easy mission, but
then it'll be the first you do,
so that's to be expected. After
you finish talking, go over to
the woodpile and tap the button
a few times to chop the wood for
the guy. Then talk to the guy
again, and he'll reward you with
50 experience points and a POW
candy.

MISSION: The Tired Old Woodsman
COMPLETE

Walk onto the dock, and call the
raft by standing on the switch.
Jump onto the raft, and sail
across to the mainland. There
you'll be confronted by a grumpy
armadillo and have your first
battle (and that was totally
Sonic's fault for asking what
could possibly go wrong!). It's
a pretty easy battle, so don't
stress. After you win follow the
path, and you'll find your way
blocked by boxes. Luckily, Amy
will arrive to clear your way
with her smash ability.

Get the rings you missed (Ring
Count: 16), and Chao egg #2 on
the right. Then follow the path
to two pillars, where you'll be
attacked by a sentry drone. Then
it will change its mind, giving
you your first chase. Jump the
boxes in your path by tapping
each character until you catch
the drone, then battle as usual.
After the battle, you'll notice
a cliff to your right that you
can fly to, but you'll have to
come back with another
character. Fight the armadillo,
and you'll notice that this time
it has help - two wasp pairs.
They shouldn't be a problem. Get
the rings and the items, and
follow the ring trail around to
your right and up towards a boar
(Ring count: 31). Beat it, and
you should see a man nearby,
next to a bridge. There is a
switch puzzle here to restore
the bridge, but you'll need two
more characters in your party
before you can do that.

Follow the trail to the right,
get two more rings and egg #3,
and fight another armadillo. You
may notice on your right a
couple of cliff faces with
upwards pointing arrows carved
into them. You'll need another
character to climb these.
Continue on between the two
cliffs, get the rings around the
tower, fight another boar, and
go to the shoreline on the right
to get more rings. By the shore
you'll find a runway, which
you'll be using later. Follow
the trail of rings at the end of
the runway, and you may notice
some islands to your right. You
need a flying character to get
to them. Around to the left,
follow the trail of rings up the
cliff face and take the spring
for a few more rings and an item
box. Jump back down, and go
around to the next closest cliff
area - this one has stepping
stones leading up to it. Jump up
there, get the rings on the
right, then use the dash ramp to
get more rings and Chao egg #4.

Go up the next cliff face's
stepping stones - there are
rings and an item box at the top
(Ring count: 75). You can't
progress any further until you
have a flyer on your team
though.

Go back to the pillars near
where you got your second Chao
egg, and you'll see a steep
mountain path on the left, with
more rings. Up you go! When the
path forks, take the upper path
for more rings, but you'll find
a dead end. If Amy's levelled up
to the point where she has level
II smash you can break the
boxes, but you'll need a climber
to make any progress here. Go
back to the fork and follow the
path to find more boxes, with
Chao egg #5 on the other side.
Smash them if you can and get
the egg. Then switch back to
Sonic, and go back a little to
find a dash ramp. Use it for
more rings, and you'll zoom back
down to sea level to find even
more rings.

There are some boxes to the left
you can break if you have the
power, but you'll need a flyer
to go any further. Go right,
past a climbing wall, and get
the rings and item box (Ring
count: 105). When you reach the
bridge, you'll meet your first
boss - a Marauder Scout. You can
fight it now if you want, but
you're also given the option to
leave and go earn some more
experience fighting easier
enemies if you prefer. Once you
beat the Marauder, your path is
clear to Central City.

If you've been following my
directions, your total for Green
Hill Zone should be:

RINGS: 105/185
CHAO EGGS: 5/11

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Tired Old Woodsman

MISSIONS PENDING:
Hostile Reception

CENTRAL CITY

When you reach the city, follow
the trail of rings (8) to Tails'
workshop. Head inside and meet
Tails, who'll suggest you go
meet the GUN Commander, and will
also join your team. Tails'
workshop works as a stronghold
for your team, where you can
come to be fully healed, and to
switch team members if you have
more than 4. You can do this any
time you want, so if you're low
on health or PP, or need to
switch teammates, come back
here.

Once you leave the base, you'll
immediately face off with a
Swatbot. It will regenerate when
you knock it out, so take down
the wasps first so it won't
revive itself. Once they're out
of the way, grab 2 rings and
Chao egg #1 to your right. Then
follow the road down to meet
Rouge, and she'll take you to
see the GUN Commander. Hey,
that's the first chapter done
already!

MISSION: Hostile Reception
COMPLETE

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.2 - CHAPTER TWO: THE
SEARCH FOR KNUCKLES
--------------------------------

MISSION: The Search for Knuckles

The GUN Commander asks you to
search four of Eggman's old
bases in Central City and the
Green Hill Zone. Leave the HQ,
and outside you'll find two
stars on your map, indicating
where the bases are. Outside
you'll also find a soldier who
asks you to destroy some robots
for him.

MISSION - Mechanical Muggers

A third star will have now
appeared on your map, to the
left. Let's take care of that
one first. Get the rings around
the roundabout (Ring count: 18),
then head to your right, back
towards the entrance to the
city. Before you go outside the
walls, take the downward path to
find a dash ramp. Use it and it
will take you to the area on the
far left. Get the item box near
you, then go up the path to
fight the Swatbots. Once you're
done with that, the GUN soldier
will reward you, then you can
grab Chao egg #2 and go back
down the dash ramp. You may want
to go back to your stronghold to
restore your HP and PP.

MISSION - Mechanical Muggers
COMPLETE

Next to the dash ramp is a path
leading south, with a trail of
rings. This leads to Mystic
Ruins, but you're not allowed
through at this stage. Get the
rings anyway (Ring count: 25).
Then go back to the roundabout
and take the south path for more
rings. On the right, you'll find
a man asking for help.

MISSION - Queen of the Swarm

The guy wants you to get rid of
the queen wasp on the rooftop.
We'll get to that in a minute,
but first you should keep
following the ring trail (Ring
count: 30). It leads to a store
where you can and should buy at
least one bug spray, an item
which will help you defeat the
queen wasp. Head back towards
the entrance to the city, and
you'll see a man between two
buildings, who'll help you get
up onto the rooftops. Don't pay
for advice though, not when I
can tell you how to do it!

You'll find your team in the
construction yard nearby. Get
all the rings you can reach
(Ring count: 39), and run up the
ramp onto the roof with Sonic.
Switch to another character, and
stand on one of the switches
nearby. Switch to a third
character, and make them stand
on the other button to activate
the crane. Then switch to Sonic
to activate the switch, which
will position the crane hook
above the missing pipe portion.
Switch to your fourth character,
run over to the pipe section,
and attach the hook. Then get
Sonic to push his switch again,
and hey presto! Pipe in place!

Use Sonic to dash through the
pipe, then down the dash ramp.
Beat the wasps that attack you,
then follow the rooftops along
to the left, getting the rings
and flying over the gap. Another
wasp swarm will attack; beat
them and follow the ring trail
across the rooftops. You'll
fight another wasp group, then
have two choices - jump to the
roof on the right, or the one
upwards from you. Take the right
option, and you'll find the
queen. You may want to save
before you approach her. The
first thing you should do in the
battle is hit the queen with
your bug spray - this will make
it much easier to knock out. Get
the rings and egg #3 after you
beat the wasps, then jump up on
the ledge for the ring on it
(Ring count: 60).

Now follow the rooftops in an
upward direction, gathering the
rings. Go through the door near
the climbable wall, and then go
across the top of that wall to a
doorway. There's an item box in
there for you. Back outside,
jump off the wall to the left
and beat the drones. Get the
rings and go into the hideout,
where you will be confronted by
some Swatbots. They will drop a
communicator, oddly. You'll be
finding one of those in each of
the hideouts. Get the items and
the ring, and head back out
(Ring count: 73).

Go back across the rooftops to
where you first landed on the
roof from the dash ramp. Fly
over the gap on the right and
continue across to get the rings
and egg #4. On this ledge
there's a fly point to another
roof with more rings and egg #5.
Get them all, and go up the dash
ramp for egg #6. Get the rings
up there, then run to the edge
of that roof where you'll find
two fly points - one going up,
and one going left. Take the
left one, then move to the top
of that roof to get another fly
point - this one will take you
to a single ring (Ring count:
89).

Jump down from the roof and go
over to the man who told you
about the wasps to complete that
mission and get your reward.

MISSION: Queen of the Swarm
COMPLETE

Now head out of the city proper,
to the road leading to Tails'
airstrip. Go right from here,
down towards the remaining star
on your map. You'll find another
ring trail to follow, with boxes
at the end for Amy to smash.
Chao egg #7 is behind them. Once
you have it, go back to the
manhole you passed and go
inside. Beat the Swatbots to get
another communicator, then get
the ring and the item and leave
(Ring count: 104).

You've done all you can in
Central City for the moment.
It's time to go back to Green
Hill Zone.

Your total for Central City so
far should be:

RINGS: 104/110
CHAO EGGS: 7/8

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Hostile Reception
Mechanical Muggers
Queen of the Swarm

MISSIONS PENDING:
The Search for Knuckles

GREEN HILL ZONE

Back in the Green Hill Zone,
make your way over to the
shoreline near the runway, and
use Tails or Rouge to fly to the
series of islands on the right.
Start at the bottom one, and
work your way across, picking up
the rings and Chao egg #6. Go
into the base, and as usual
you'll find two Swatbots with a
communicator, a single ring, and
an item box (Ring count: 113).

Now look at the series of cliff
faces you went up earlier - the
ones with the stepping stones.
Climb the top one again, and fly
over the gap to the next cliff
to get 3 more rings. You can't
go any further without a climber
though.

Go back to the incomplete bridge
you could not cross, and talk to
the guy next to it. It turns out
to be another team puzzle. It's
pretty easy to solve - just get
Sonic and Amy to stand on the
two switches this side of the
bridge, and Tails and Rouge to
fly to the two switches on the
other side. Then get the rings
on that cliff and fight the
wasps. Follow the ring trail to
the cave, but there's nothing in
there except another boar to
fight. Fly over the waterfall on
the right for more rings, then
fly back. Fly over the waterfall
to the left, and follow the
trail of rings to find Cream the
Rabbit.

MISSION - Cream and Cheese

Cream's Chao Cheese has gone
missing, and your task is to
find him. Unfortunately that
requires the services of a
teammate you've yet to recruit,
so for now Cream will stay where
she is. Go beat up the Swatbot
nearby, and get the rings (Ring
count: 143), then use the dash
ramp to land next to a wounded
Professor.

MISSION - Stop the Signal

Professor Madden has found the
cause of why the animals in the
area are acting so hostile -
there are three signal
projectors in the area using a
sonic wave or some such. They
need to be shut down. Two of
them you can currently reach,
but the star in the north east
corner will have to wait until
later. Go across the tiny little
bridge on the right, get the
rings on the ledge, and fly to
the next ledge to get some more
(Ring count: 150). That's as far
as you can go though.

Go back to the island you began
on at the start of the game, by
taking the raft back across the
water. Go to the far left of the
island, fly to the next island,
and get the rings. Fly to the
next island to get more rings,
and at the bottom of the island
you'll find more rings and Chao
egg #7 (Ring count:
160). On this island is also the
    first of the projectors you
    need to
deactivate. You may want to heal
your team with items and save
before you do this, because this
triggers a battle with giant
raptor hawks, who have 100 HP.

The second projector is the the
south west corner of the map,
near the boxes you saw earlier.
Go via the high cliffs and dash
ramp on that side, and get Chao
egg #5 if you couldn't smash the
boxes earlier. Then when you get
back down, jump and fly across
the stepping stones to reach the
second projector, which will
summon more ravens when you
deactivate it.

You still have one more Eggman
base to infiltrate, and it's the
star on your map with the grey
building on the small single
cliff in the middle of the map.
Fly up there, fight the drones
outside, and enter. There's
another lone ring and item box
here to pick up, but this time a
Chao egg (#8) as well.You'll
have to destroy the Swatbots to
get them first, as well as the
communicator they have.

Now that you have all four
communicators, Tails is able to
pick up a signal from the Mystic
Ruins. That means it's time to
head back to Central City.

Your total for Green Hill Zone
should now be:

RINGS: 161/185
CHAO EGGS: 8/11

MISSIONS PENDING
The Search for Knuckles
Cream and Cheese
Stop the Signal

CENTRAL CITY

Once you return to Central City,
follow the path by the dash ramp
towards Mystic Ruins to find
that the guard still won't let
you through. Go back to Tails'
workshop, and after you go in
and come back out, you can fly
in his plane, the Tornado, to
get to the Ruins.

MYSTIC RUINS

You'll find yourself surrounded
by rings - get the one to your
right first, and you'll be met
by Big the Cat, who will happily
join your team. His ability is
invulnerability, which can get
you through the clouds of gas
surrounding this area. You'll be
taken to the character select
screen, where you can choose who
to put on your team. Sonic and
Big are already selected, so
pick two more, and then get the
rest of the rings to your left
(Ring count: 8). Go through the
gas cloud on the left and into
the building on the other side,
where you'll find two item boxes
and Chao egg #1.

Back outside, go back through
the cloud and back to the plane.
There's a ledge above it which
you can fly to and fight more
giant wasps. Go through the gas
cloud up there for Chao egg #2.
Jump down to the ground, go
around the broken dock, and fly
to the island to fight another
wasp. Pick up the rings and Chao
egg #3. Jump to the island below
you and fight the millipedes,
then jump to the next island and
go through the gas to get egg #4

Go back to the top island, and
jump to the shore on the right.
There are two rings there (Ring
count: 12), but before you move,
now's a good time to save. A
colossal worm will pop out of
the ground, and it's a toughie.
After you beat it, fly to the
island on the left, and fly to
the broken dock for egg #5. Fly
back to the right shore, go
through the gas cloud, and
follow the trail of rings,
fighting a millipede group along
the way. Stop when you get to
the big fan (Ring count: 23),
and go through the gas cloud
nearby.

Take the dash ramp, then jump
down and get egg #6 and the
rings. Then go through the door
and follow the ring trail.
You'll find another giant wasp
group along the way, and another
giant worm at the end, past the
gas cloud (Ring count: 29). Go
back through the gas cloud and
continue around to the left. Go
around to the right when the
path forks for the rings, then
go back, and go through the gas
cloud for more rings to end up
back at the start. Go through
the gas again, and talk to the
guy to activate another switch
puzzle.

Follow the path down to the
switches, and use three
characters to stand on them.
Leave the top left switch free.
This will cause a power pole to
pop out of the bottom duct to
your left. Run down there to it
with your fourth character,
getting any rings left along the
way (Ring count: 45), and you'll
find a green fuse inside the
pole. Take it, and then switch
to the character standing on the
lower left switch. Move them to
the upper switch, and the power
pole will be replaced by one at
the top duct. Run over to it as
the character who took the fuse,
put the fuse in, and then move
your characters off the switches
until the pole goes back into
the ground. This will turn on
the giant fans.

Hop onto the stepping stone in
the middle of the fans, and
you'll now be able to fly to the
upper ledge. Get the rings (Ring
count: 50) and Chao egg #7, then
head inside. Get the two rings
in the first room, and move on.
Run down the stairs and fight
the Marauders, get the rings
(Ring count: 54), and go through
the door on the left. Inside
you'll find Chao egg #8, behind
a number of boxes. I hope you
brought Amy to smash them!

Go back out into the corridor
and take the door to the left.
There's another Marauder group
in here to fight. After they're
done with, use Big to get
through the electricity, and go
into the next room. Chao egg #9
waits behind a pile of boxes. Go
back to the corridor, and take
the door near the one you first
came through. You'll find
Knuckles in the middle of a
jailbreak. There's a Chao egg in
his cell, but you can't get it
right now. Knuckles'll join your
team, and now you can begin the
next chapter!

MISSION: The Search for Knuckles
COMPLETE

Your Mystic Ruins total should
be:

RINGS: 54/60
CHAO EGGS: 9/11

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Search for Knuckles

MISSIONS PENDING:
Cream and Cheese
Stop the Signal

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.3 - CHAPTER THREE:
EGGHUNT
--------------------------------

CENTRAL CITY

MISSION - Egghunt

Back at your stonghold, you'll
have a discussion of what to do
next. Tails rigs the
communicators to be a tracker
that will beep when you get near
an Eggman signal. It's time to
go find Eggman, but have a chat
with the others standing around
before you leave. Big is
definately one you want to talk
to, as he has a sidequest for
you, which offers extra items
and experience points once
completed.

MISSION - Norton is Missing!

Froggy is apparently worried
because his friend Norton is
missing, and Big wants to find
him. Well, why not? I mean, do
you have anything more important
to do? :P Leave the airbase, and
assemble a team which has
Knuckles, Amy and one of your
flyers on it - preferably Tails.
Now that you have climbing
abilities, you can get all the
goodies that you missed earlier.

Start by running down the road
leading to Mystic Ruins, and
you'll find that the roadblock
is gone now. You will get mowed
down by Shadow as he zooms past,
giving off an Eggman signal, but
you can worry about that later.

MISSION - Chasing Shadow

If you look at the road, you'll
notice there's a gap in the
guard rail that you can jump
over to a climbing wall. Use
Knuckles to get to the top,
grabbing rings as you go, then
smash through the boxes to get
more rings and Chao egg #8. That
should be all the rings and eggs
for this area.

Jump back down, and go over to
where you met with the GUN
Commander. Behind that area is a
climbing wall Knuckles can
scale. When you do, your tracker
will go off. Jump down the other
side, and go to the door where
you fought the Swatbots for the
communicator earlier. You'll
find another Swatbot outside,
feeling rather confused.

MISSION - The Forgetful Swatbot

Talk to the Swatbot, and you'll
find that it has forgotten its
purpose. What you do here is
your call - if you want to fight
it, then tell it it was built to
serve Eggman. If you don't want
to fight, tell it that it is
free. Either way, you'll get a
strange Eggman device. You're
going to need to find more of
these before Tails can work out
what they're for.

MISSION - The Forgetful Swatbot
COMPLETE

MISSION - Strange Eggman Devices

Head down to the Items Store,
and go past it into the building
on the left.

MISSION - Buyer Beware!

The guy in there is upset
because a conniving conman gave
him a bizarre device in exchange
for his prized stapler. He's
willing to let you have it, but
wants you to bring back his
stapler first. Sounds fair
enough. You're done in the city
for the moment, so head north to
the Green Hill Zone.

Your Total for Central City
should now be:

RINGS: 110/110
CHAO EGGS: 8/8

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Forgetful Swatbot

MISSIONS PENDING:
Egghunt
Strange Eggman Devices
Cream and Cheese
Stop the Signal
Norton is Missing!
Buyer Beware!

GREEN HILL ZONE

The first thing you should do is
go over to your left a little
ways (assuming you walked here
instead of flying), where you'll
find a climbing wall. Up the top
there's 2 rings (Ring count:
163), and Chao egg #9.

Now move over to the star on
your map near the runway, and
you'll find the conman who took
the stapler. Threaten him and
he'll give it back pretty
quickly. You can take it back to
the guy in Central City later
though; you have work to do here
still. On the far right side of
the map, near the shore, there's
a climbing wall you can scale as
Knuckles. Go into the room at
the top and you'll find an item
box and Cream's missing Chao
Cheese. Jump back down and go
right to the waterline, and
you'll find a frog. Not the one
you need though, so keep
looking.

Climb up the stepping stones by
the uppermost series of small
cliffs, fly across the gap, and
climb up the wall. Smash the
boxes, and get the rings and
Chao egg #10. Zoom up the dash
ramp to the high ledge, and
you'll find another frog, but
not Norton. Get the rings, and
fly over the gap. Get the rings
up here, and jump on the spring
to find the third signal
projector. Deactivate it to
fight another raptor hawk group.
Now all you have to do to
complete that mission is go talk
to Dr. Madden.

Jump off the ledge and use the
dash ramp. You'll get rings as
you go through - fly over the
gap on the right to get the last
remaining rings, and Chao egg
#11. Fly back to the previous
ledge, and jump over the left
side. You'll find a third frog
there, but sadly, it's not the
one you're looking for. Go over
to Cream and chat with her.
She'll be so happy to have
Cheese back that she'll offer to
join your team and help you beat
people up. Let her join, and you
can choose your team again. I
recommend replacing Cream with
Tails, as she has the same
flying abilities, and her
healing POW moves are a life
saver in battle. Make sure you
get her Refresh move.

MISSION - Cream and Cheese
COMPLETE

Use the nearby dash ramp, and
speak with Dr. Madden to
complete his mission. Now there
won't be any more boars or
armadillos attacking you. In
their place are Swatbots.

MISSION - Stop the Signal
COMPLETE

Next, jump down to the nearby
cave that was empty before. Now
there's a little boy inside,
calling for help. He's been
cornered by two giant scorpions,
so you may want to save before
going in to fight them.

MISSION - A YOUNG BOY IN
TROUBLE!

After the battle, you can choose
whether to let the boy get home
by his own means, or to take him
home yourself. Take him with you
- it's easy experience points.
Now head back to where you first
started the game, and you'll
find another frog where you got
your first Chao egg. Finally,
the one you've been looking for!
Big's happy now, so you can stop
looking all over the place for
frogs.

MISSION - Norton is Missing!
COMPLETE

Go up to the mountain on the
left side of the map, and climb
that wall you went past earlier.
There's a doorway up there, but
it's blocked by a forcefield.
You'll have to come back later.
For now, it's time to head back
to Central City.

Your total for Green Hill Zone
should be:

RINGS: 185/185
CHAO EGGS: 11/11

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Cream and Cheese
Stop the Signal!
Norton is Missing!

MISSIONS PENDING:
Egghunt
Strange Eggman Devices
Chasing Shadow
Buyer Beware!
A Young Boy in Trouble!

CENTRAL CITY

Head towards the shopkeeper
whose stapler you're holding,
and on the way, you'll pass the
little boy's father, who wants
to reward you for bringing back
his son.

MISSION - A Young Boy in
Trouble! COMPLETE

Now go to the shopkeeper and
return his stapler. He'll trade
you your third Eggman device in
gratitude.

MISSION - Buyer Beware! COMPLETE

Okay, now you need to go back to
the Mystic Ruins. But first,
stop by Tails' airbase to change
your team. You'll need to have
Knuckles and Big, as well as a
flyer.

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
A Young Boy in Trouble!
Buyer Beware!

MYSTIC RUINS

Assuming you flew here, head to
your left. If you ran from
Central City, then get to the
runway. The first thing you'll
see is a roboticised armadillo,
which will attack you.

MISSION - Attack of the
Roboarmadillos

Follow the path to the left,
through the gas and into the
building. You'll have to battle
more roboarmadillos inside, but
your reward for beating them is
another Eggman device.

MISSION - Attack of the
Roboarmadillos COMPLETE

Next, go down to the fans you
used to get into the prison, and
your tracker will go off again.
Don't fly up there - instead,
start to go down the path to the
switches, and Shadow will come
out to confront you. Have a chat
with him, and then you can
decide whether or not you want
to fight him now. Either way,
he'll leave an Eggman device
with you - the last one you
need! Fit together, the five
devices make a pattern generator
which Tails believes will get
you past the forcefield in the
Green Hill Zone.

MISSION - Chasing Shadow
COMPLETE MISSION - Strange
Eggman Devices COMPLETE

You can go back in a minute, but
you should take the time to get
the last Chao eggs and rings
from here first. Use your flyer
to go up into the prison, and go
into the cell where Knuckles was
kept for Chao egg #10.

Leave the prison, and go to the
cloud of gas near the fans. Go
through it with Big, then switch
to Sonic to get over the dash
ramp. Climb the wall where you
land with Knuckles, and go into
the room at the top to find Chao
egg #11, the last 6 rings, and a
millipede group to fight. Okay,
now you can go back to Green
Hill Zone.

Your total for Mystic Ruins
should now be:

RINGS: 60/60
CHAO EGGS: 11/11

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Attack of the Roboarmadillos
Chasing Shadow
Strange Eggman Devices

MISSIONS PENDING:
Egghunt

GREEN HILL ZONE

Go up the mountain to the
forcefield, and use the field
generator to stop it. A group of
laser drones will then jump you.
After you beat them you may want
to save, as you'll have your
next boss battle on your hands
inside. Go into the base, and
you'll be attacked by Mk. II
Swatbots, which have almost
twice as much HP as their
predecessors. Don't forget when
you battle them that they can
revive themselves at the start
of the next round if you knock
them out. When you beat them,
the man with the moustache
appears, and you're done with
Chapter 3!

MISSION - Egghunt COMPLETE

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Egghunt

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.4 - CHAPTER 4: A Wolf
in the Shadows
--------------------------------

MISSION: A Wolf in the Shadows

With Eggman on your team, your
new objective is to reach
Metropolis, by way of the Blue
Ridge Zone. Being across the
water from your current
location, the only way there is
by air. Leave Tails' workshop,
and take the Tornado to Blue
Ridge. If you flew to Green Hill
to confront Eggman, your plane
will still be there.

BLUE RIDGE ZONE

When you land in Station Square
(which looks a lot smaller than
in Sonic Adventure,
strangely...) you'll find
yourself right near the items
store. Stock up on anything you
need, and go through the gap
between the buildings on the
left. You should see a man
nearby who wants to talk.

MISSION - Deliver the Warning!

This genius has left the
breakers on at the power plant,
so you have to go and warn his
coworkers before they blow
everything up. Oh joy. Nearby is
a red stepping stone which you
can jump on to reach the
rooftops. You'll need a flying
character to reach Chao Egg #1
on the roof. You'll probably
notice Shadow standing around
nearby. Jump back down, but stop
on the first roof after the red
stepping stone. There's another
fly point there to use. Jump
down to the green roof at the
other end, and follow the
rooftops northeast over a couple
more fly points, and up a ramp
to a spring. Use it and then fly
to your left for Chao egg #2.

Jump down and get the rings,
then follow the path around to
the left to confront Shadow.
You'll fight him (for the second
time, if you were hostile in
Mystic Ruins), and then he'll
try to get away from you. You'll
chase him as only Sonic, and
then have to fight him again
alone. Fortunately when you
catch him, you get a free round
to hit him in which he can't
fight back. Remember, that's
three attacks as Sonic!

MISSION - The Search for Omega

Shadow will join your team after
you beat him, as he's looking
for Omega and also trying to get
into Metropolis. Follow the path
to the left, getting the rings,
and you'll bump into a shield
pawn. Be careful fighting these
guys, as they have high defense.
This is a good time to use POW
moves. Keep following the path
to the left (Ring count: 17),
and you'll find a Dragodon to
fight. Where the path curves
back around, there's a trail of
rings below you that leads to a
cottage (Ring count: 24), where
you'll find a worried old man.

MISSION - Timmy's in Trouble!

Timmy's fallen down the well -
how cliche. Well, guess you'll
have to save him. There's a path
between the bushes just south of
you - take it to the left and
you'll find Chao egg #3. Take
the path to the right and jump
on the spring. Get the rings and
Chao egg #4. Get the rest of the
rings (Ring count:
30) and fight the raptor hawk.
    To the left you'll find
    another spring which'll
take you to a ledge. Fly from
the right edge of it to get egg
#5.

Jump down to the ground and
follow the main path to a large
rock formation near a billboard.
Jump, fly and climb to the top,
and you'll find three rings
(Ring count: 33) and a raptor
hawk to fight. Jump back down,
and go under the arch on the
left. Follow the trail of rings
to find the well. Go inside, and
you'll find that Timmy didn't
actually need rescuing. Take him
with you anyway. There's also
two rings (Ring count: 40) and
Chao egg #6 down here.

Take the dash ramp outside,
fight the hawks, and follow the
trail of rings to the left. Fly
over the gap and take the spring
to Chao egg #7. Take the spring
back to the ledge the dash ramp
deposited you on, and go to the
right end to find a spot to jump
down. Watch out for the shield
pawn. Have a word to the man
standing nearby.

MISSION - GUN Escort

This guy is a GUN Official who
needs to be escorted back to
Station Square. No problem! Head
back that way, getting the rings
you missed between there and the
rock formation by the well, and
return Timmy to his dad. Be sure
you to choose Sonic's winky chat
item when the old man thanks
you! ^_^

MISSION - Timmy's in Trouble
COMPLETE

Take the main path back towards
Station Square, but stop at the
bridge where you added Shadow to
your team. You may notice an
outhouse standing nearby - get
close enough, and you'll find
that it's occupied.

MISSION - Man in the Booth

The guy in there is looking for
some reading material, so he
asks you to pick up a copy of
the Blue Ridge Times. But later.
Cross the bridge, fight the
Dragondon, and follow a path
along the rivershore to get some
more rings. Go back and follow
the river the other way, getting
more rings (Ring count: 62) and
taking the dash ramp. This'll
take you to a ledge where you'll
find Chao egg #8 behind a group
of boxes on the end. Smash
through them to get the egg,
then take the dash ramp to a
spring which will take you up to
Chao egg #9.

Go back to the area over the
bridge, and smash the boxes on
the main path to get access to
the power plant. Talk to the guy
there to warn him, and get the
rings, then fly over the gap on
the left to get some more (Ring
count: 71). Go back to the
factory, jump over the ledge on
the right, and go all the way
right to find Chao egg #10.

Jump on the spring to get back
to the factory, and go back to
Station Square. The GUN Official
will thank you and be on his
way.

MISSION - GUN Escort COMPLETE

Go back to the guy you talked to
when you first got here to
finish the power plant mission.

MISSION - Deliver the Warning
COMPLETE

Run to the items store and pick
up a copy of the Blue Ridge
Times, and take it back to the
outhouse. He'll give you some
prune juice as a way of thanking
you. :P

MISSION - Man in the Booth
COMPLETE

Head back to where you got Chao
egg #9, and follow the rings
along the path to the North and
around (Ring count: 81). Be
careful you don't miss the two
hiding behind the smoke columns.
You may want to save when you
get to the end of the rings,
because you'll be confronted by
the mysterious Marauder, Shade.
When you beat her, she'll make a
roadblock, cutting off your way
into Metropolis. Eggman knows
another way though - a cave
entrance near where you picked
up your seventh egg. Head back
that way and talk to the guy you
meet to begin another switch
puzzle.

This one's a bit trickier than
some of the other puzzles you've
done. There are six switches,
each with a different pattern. A
screen above the door will show
you the full pattern you need to
open the lock - it's a
combination of some of the other
patterns.. You'll need to step
on the two switches that match
it. Each switch shows a
different pattern of red boxes.
Look at the screens as grids of
25 squares - 5 by 5. Go to the
door first and push the button
to get the first pattern. The
easiest figure this out is to
start in corners. If the main
screen has any red blocks in the
corners, find the switches with
those corners first. Then look
where the other blocks are, and
switch to another character to
stand on the switch with the
same patterns. You'll have to
match the main screen three
times - first with two
characters on switches, then
three, then four.

Once the puzzle is complete and
the door is open, make sure
you've done everything you want
to do here, as well as in Green
Hill, Central City, and Mystic
Ruins. Once you go through that
door, there's no going back
(until you defeat the final boss
in Chapter 10, and get to start
at the beginning with Sonic at
whatever level you've gotten him
up to by then). If you're ready,
begin Chapter Five!

MISSION - A Wolf in the Shadows
COMPLETE

Your total for Blue Ridge Zone
should be:

RINGS: 81/81
CHAO EGGS: 10/10

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
A Wolf in the Shadows
Deliver the Warning!
Timmy's in Trouble!
GUN Escort
Man in the Booth

MISSIONS PENDING:
The Search for Omega

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.5 - CHAPTER 5: THE
BATTLE FOR ANGEL ISLAND
--------------------------------

METROPOLIS

MISSION - The Battle for Angel
Island

Talk to Knuckles first, who's
kind of freaking out about the
fact that he's no longer the
last of his kind. After you
chat, go over and talk to Tails
to discuss battle plans. You'll
have to split your team in two -
Sonic and Knuckles will be on
team one, and Tails and Eggman
will be on team two. You're free
to add any other two characters
to each team that you wish. I
would suggest putting Amy on
Tails' team, and a flyer on
Sonic's team that can at least
handle level II.

You'll begin with Sonic's team,
with the objective of getting to
Angel Island before the
Marauders do. Go to the far
right of the tunnel for Chao egg
#1, then go up the stairs and
outside.

You'll switch to Tails' team
now. Take the downward fork in
the tunnel, and go through the
door. In the next tunnel, you
will find the weapon part you
are seeking in the first room to
the left, as well as an item
box. There's another item box in
the tunnel to the left, past the
shield pawn patrolling, but it
you don't get it now, you can
always get it when you switch
back to Tails' team. Once you
find the weapon, you switch back
to Sonic and Knuckles.

You'll find yourself out on the
streets of the city, with the
aim of stowing airboard one of
the airships about to leave.
Climb the wall to your left, and
get the rings up there (Ring
count: 8). Head around to the
far left and grab the item box.
Then go around to the back of
the platform, and fly up several
boxes to a spring. It will take
you to egg #2.

Jump back down to the rooftop,
and run around the top to a red
ramp on the right for some more
rings (Ring count: 11). Then
jump down to the next rooftop
for Chao egg #3. Go back down to
the ground, and go up the stairs
on the right for some rings and
Chao egg #4.

Go back down the stairs and head
upwards, following the trail of
rings, and fight the gun pawn on
the left. Behind him you'll find
more rings, and Chao egg #5.
Continue north for awhile to
find more rings, and a wall you
can climb to reach Chao egg #6.

To your left you'll see your
target - the airbase. If you
wish to change your teammates
(other than Sonic and Knuckles),
now's the time to go back to the
stronghold and do it. If you
don't, you're stuck with those
four until this chapter's boss.
If you go up the path beside the
ramp leading up to it, you'll
find an itembox you can take at
the end. Go up the ramp and get
the rings (Ring count: 36),
fight the Marauder, and climb
the wall to infiltrate the
airbase.

You'll switch back to Tails'
team now, with the objective of
finding the other part you need
for your weapon. Get the item
box at the bottom of the tunnel
if you didn't before, and then
head for the exit on the right.

Outside, start by heading onto
the roof of the door you just
came out by jumping and flying
up the boxes on the left. Go
back down, and up the ramp to
the left. Take the upward path
and use the spring to grab three
rings, then fly to a platform
with three more rings, and from
there to another platform with
three rings (Ring count: 45).
Ignore the path leading down -
it will just take you back to
the south side of the city that
you explored with Sonic and
Knuckles.

Go back to the previous
platform, and you can fly back
to where you were. Go up the
ramp nearby for rings and an
item box, where you'll find the
weapon part you need. You need
to take it to the lab in the
south part of the city, but
there's more work to do here
first. Back down the ramp,
you'll find Chao egg #7.

Go back down onto the main part
of the rooftop, and on the left
side you'll find a man to talk
to. He'll activate a switch
puzzle for you to figure out.
Get the rings first, then turn
your attention to the puzzle.
There are four switches involved
- one for each character to use.
Use Tails (or any other flyer
with you) to go up the ramp in
the lower left corner, to the
yellow switch, and from there,
fly to the platform where the
red switch is. Then position one
of your characters at the yellow
switch, and one at the blue
switch on the right side. Leave
your fouth character at the
switch where you start.

This character should flip that
switch to begin the puzzle.
You'll be shown three lights -
yellow, red and blue. Four
lights will be flashed - what
you need to do is remember the
pattern and push the
corresponding switches in the
same order. Get the combination
right, and you'll be shown
another sequence, this time with
five lights. You'll then have to
remember a sequence with six
lights. Once you get that one
right, an escalator will be put
into place next to the red
switch.

At the top of the escalator you
will find three rings (Ring
count: 57) and a Marauder to
fight. Take the fly point on the
right side to find Chao egg #8.
Follow the trail of rings
around, fly over the gap, and
get more rings (Ring count: 65).
You'll find a pair of boxes at
the end of this ledge, which you
can smash to get back down to
the rooftop, if you brought Amy
with you. If not, fly back the
way you came and you'll end up
on the roof of the airbase. You
can make your way back to the
tunnels to get back to the north
side of the city from here.

Get back up to the top of the
elevator, and take the fly point
on the left this time. This will
take you to a platform with two
fly points on the left. Take the
top one to reach a ledge with
some rings (Ring count: 70), and
a doorway leading inside to
where you'll find Omega. You'll
have to fight some drones first,
then reactivate Omega, and
you'll be able to select him any
time you go back to your
stonghold.

MISSION - The Search for Omega
COMPLETE

Go back outside to the fans, and
you'll find another fly point.
Take it up to some pipes which
you can jump up to get to Chao
egg #9. Go back to the top of
the escalator, and fly to the
tower on the left. Jump to the
ledge below you, and you'll find
two fly points - one on the
left, and one on the right. Take
the left one to reach Chao egg
#10, and five rings (Ring count:
77). Fly over the railing on the
right, and follow the ring trail
(Ring count: 82).

Jump down to the rooftop, and
get the item box, Chao egg #11
and three rings near the spring.
Now you should go to the weapons
lab (the star you can see on the
map). Head over there, and
you'll switch to Sonic's team.

BATTLESHIP

This area is still considered a
part of Metropolis. Get the last
two rings (Ring count: 85) and
take out the Marauders aboard.
The leader at the bridge will
sound an alarm, resulting in a
group of Marauders taking out
your weapons onboard.

METROPOLIS

Switching back to Tails' team,
your new objective is to get to
the cannon to give Sonic some
ground support. It's near where
you found the last two Chao
eggs. Go back up the escalator
and to the tower on the left.
Jump down to the ledge, and this
time take the right fly point.
Now's a good time to save - when
you approach the cannon, you'll
be attacked by a guardian robot.
Once you defeat it, you'll
switch back to Sonic's team.

Your total for Metropolis should
be:

RINGS: 85/85
CHAO EGGS: 11/11

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Search for Omega

MISSIONS PENDING:
The Battle for Angel Island

ANGEL ISLAND

The Marauders have already
beaten you to the shrine. You
have to get there and stop them
from taking the Master Emerald.
Get the five rings you're
standing near, and fly across
the two islands on your left to
get Chao egg #1. Fly back and
jump down to the ledge on the
right to get another ring and an
item box. Climb the wall and get
the rings, fighting any
Marauders that get close. Get
Chao egg #2 on the rock to the
left by taking the spring, and
get the three rings nearby (Ring
count: 13).

Follow the path to the right,
over a bridge, and get the
rings. Climb the wall to get two
more rings and Chao egg #3. Get
the rings on the right, and an
item box. Jump down from the
ledge for more rings (Ring
count: 26) and to fight a
Marauder. Smash through the
boxes on the left, and follow
the path. You'll find more rings
and Marauders to fight. When you
get to the boxes, smash through
them and follow the ring trail
to the right. Jump over the
creek to where the rings are,
and jump from there to Chao egg
#4.

Get the rings up on the brick
ledge on the right, and from
there fly to the left ledge
where you can get two more rings
and an item box. The spring will
take you to a dash ramp, and
that will take you to the
shrine. You may want to save
here before you grab the last
two rings and confront the
Marauders - or, as they call
themselves, the Nocturnus.
You'll have to fight four
Nocturnus, then you'll switch to
Tails' team again.

Your total for Angel Island
should be:

RINGS: 50/50
CHAO EGGS: 4/4

METROPOLIS

Get down to your Stonghold, and
you'll prepare for travel to
Angel Island.

ANGEL ISLAND

You'll have to face another four
Marauders here before Tails and
Eggman arrive to join the fight.
Now you can choose any of your
team of ten to fight the
Nocturnus leader, Ix, and two
regular Nocturnus grunts. I'd
recommend Omega on your team -
his beam cannon does excellent
damage. Take out Ix first, as he
can revive the Nocturnus grunts
should you knock them out first.
Once you defeat Ix, you've
completed chapter five!

MISSION - The Battle for Angel
Island COMPLETE

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Battle for Angel Island

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.6 - CHAPTER SIX:
BLACK HOLE SUN
--------------------------------

METROPOLIS GROUND ZERO

MISSION - BLACK HOLE SUN

You'll find yourself in the
ruins of Metropolis, with your
new teammate Shade superglued to
you. Pick two more characters
for your team (I recommend Amy
and a level III flyer), and
prepare to go in search of the
three generators you need to
switch on.

From where you are, get the ring
on the left, and Chao egg #1
which is just past it. Go back,
get the two rings on the grass,
and use the fly point. Jump down
to the hole in the roof and go
inside. Get the ring, turn on
the generator, and leave. Go
back to the starting point, and
jump down to the ramp. Get the
two rings, and then find the fly
point on the right and use it to
get the ring.

Fly back, jump over the gap in
the ramp, and follow the ring
trail to the ground. Take the
trail on the left, and get the
rings (Ring count: 13). Turn
around and go right until you
find Eggman's headless statue,
then follow the ring trail under
it. You'll have your first
encounter with a Bomb Pawn on
the way. Go down into the bottom
right corner of the path, and
enter the building. There's
another ring and generator
inside - switch it on and head
back outside.

Keep following the ring trail
left, and you'll go past your
stronghold where you can change
your team and replenish your
health, if you want. Get the
rest of the rings on the left,
and go up the climbing wall of
the building on the far left for
three rings (Ring count: 27) and
Chao egg #2.

Go up the ramp above where you
activated the second generator,
getting the rings (Ring count:
36) that lead to a door. Inside
you'll find Chao egg #3, and the
third generator. Switch it on,
and Tails will ask you to
retrieve Eggman's dimensional
buffer from the Hazard Vault.
Luckily, that's pretty close by.
Go back outside and jump up the
springs to a door. Inside,
follow the rings past a bomb
pawn (Ring count: 40) and into
the Hazard Vault, where you'll
have to fight a robotic Eggman
(you may want to save before you
go in). Beat it to get the
dimensional buffer.

In the bottom right corner of
the Hazard Vault, you'll find
Chao egg #4 and an item box
behind a row of boxes that only
Amy can smash through. Go back
outside and up the dash ramp,
getting the rings. That takes
you to a spring which gives you
access to Chao egg #5 and the
last three rings (Ring count:
45). Now take the dimensional
   buffer to Tails, and you're
   ready to go after Ix.

MISSION - Black Hole Sun
COMPLETE

Your total for Metropolis Ground
Zero should be:

RINGS: 45/45
CHAO EGGS: 5/5

MISSIONS COMPLETE
Black Hole Sun

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.7 - CHAPTER SEVEN:
THE QUEST FOR THE CHAOS EMERALDS
--------------------------------

KRON COLONY

MISSION - Journey into the
Unknown

The next part of your quest
begins on the Kron homeworld,
where you'll be immediately
thrown into battle against a
Kron. You'll probably find out
pretty quickly that your regular
attacks don't do a lot of damage
against these guys
- not entirely surprising,
  considering that they're made
  of rock. You'll need
to rely on your POW moves a lot
here, so you may want to take
Cream along with you. After the
battle, go back inside the
Cyclone and talk to Rouge.

MISSION - Secret Operations

Rouge is on a secret assignment
to bring GUN back any Nocturnus
tech she can find. And by she, I
mean you. After battling any
Nocturnus or gizoid, there's a
chance you'll get some tech as a
reward after the battle. You may
have already picked some up. If
so, hand it over to Rouge. Give
her five pieces, and she'll give
you some items and experience
points. There's no sure way to
tell when you'll get some, so
the best advice I can give you
is to fight Nocturnus any
oppurtunity you get, and to
equip Bobo to one of your party,
which will give you an extra
item after every battle. That
increases your chances of
getting some tech.

Leave the ship (you'll need Amy
on your team) and head out to
your right. There are three
rings and a Kron to battle
nearby, and to the north, a ramp
that leads to Chao egg #1. It's
blocked by boxes that only Amy
can smash through.

Head along the path going south,
getting the rings (Ring count:
11), and you'll be confronted by
a Kron who believes you're
Nocturnus. After you defeat him,
he'll advise you to speak with
the Kron foreman. As it's your
only way of getting the Chaos
Emerald you need to leave this
world, that's a pretty good
idea.

Head to your right first though
- you'll find a trail of rings
(Ring count: 15) leading to Chao
egg #2. To the north from the
egg you'll find a cave, which
you should enter. Inside you'll
meet Nestor the Wise, a fabled
echidna scholar and historian.

MISSION - Relics of the Past

Nestor was banished from the
Nocturnus for speaking out
against Ix (much like Shade
was), and is feeling somewhat
lonely. He wants you to bring
him back any Nocturnus relics
that you may pick up during your
journey through the Twilight
Cage.

Leave Nestor's cave, and head
back to where you fought the
Kron who pointed you towards the
foreman. Just left of there is a
pit with four rings and Chao egg
#3. Go into the cave on the
left, and use Amy to smash
through the boxes. Beat up the
Kron, get the rings, and go
around to the ledge on the right
for Chao egg #4. Go through the
door at the end, get the rings
(Ring count: 28) and go through
the next door.

Outside you'll find a Nocturnus
roaming around, and three rings
just south of you. Follow the
path right as far as you can,
getting the rings (Ring count:
37) and Chao egg #5. Back track
    to the previous fork in the
    path, and take the
path upwards. There's another
Kron to fight, then just follow
the path to the end, fighting
more Marauders and gathering
rings (Ring count: 43). Talk to
the Kron at the end of the path,
and he'll let you into the cave
to speak to the foreman.

Follow the ring trail through
the cave towards foreman Krag at
the end (Ring count: 51). He
needs your help to liberate the
Kron from Ix's forces. The
Nocturnus have taken over Krag's
factory, and set up a forcefield
to stop the Kron from entering.
Your job is to get inside and
take that forcefield down. Leave
the cave - but you may want to
have a word with the first Kron
you go past on the way out. He's
the storekeeper for this world,
and has some exciting new items
on offer. Med emitter and
refresher wave are both
particularly useful, restoring a
decent amount of your entire
party's HP or PP.

Go back to the cave you used to
get to this path, but take the
path leading up from it this
time. Go all the way along the
path to get some rings (Ring
count: 57) and Chao egg #6.
Nearby is a spring that will
take you up to your next puzzle.
Talk to the Kron standing around
at the top to activate it.

Get Sonic to stand at the end of
the platform, where the dash
icon appears. Have your other
three characters stand at each
of the switches, and push them
once. Then get Sonic to dash,
and he'll probably run head
first into the first crusher and
fall over. Switch to the
character at the blue switch and
push it again, then try Sonic's
dash again. If you get through,
you'll probably be stopped by
the next crusher. Get the
character at the yellow switch
to change it until Sonic can run
under that one too, then change
the red switch as necessary. In
my experience, the combination
changes every time, but each
button uses a different pattern.

After you get off the conveyor
belt, you'll find Chao egg #7
nearby. Follow the path around,
and you'll bump into a gizoid.
These guys can be annoying -
you'll find them using your own
POW attacks against you. You'll
come to a fork in the path -
take the right path to get
rings, another gizoid fight, and
Chao egg #8 hiding behind some
boxes (Ring count: 64).

Go back to the fork and take the
other path. Get some rings and
fight the gizoid, then go
through the door. Jump off the
ledge and get the rings on the
lower ledge, then circle back
and go through the door. Inside
you'll find two rings (Ring
count: 75) and the forcefield
you need to switch off. Once you
turn it off, go through the top
door and meet foreman Krag.
He'll now be allies with you,
meaning no Kron will attack you
any more. There will be
Nocturnus in their place, but if
you're looking for tech for
Rouge, that suits your purposes
anyway.

Go through the door on the right
into the factory. Follow the
path around, fighting any
Nocturnus you meet on the way,
and take the left path when you
reach the fork. You'll find an
item box that has one of the
Nocturnus relics Nestor wanted
inside. Go back and take the
right fork, getting the last of
the rings (Ring count: 80) and
the first Chaos Emerald.

Now that you have the Chaos
Emerald, you can explore other
territories. Head back to the
Cyclone and you're done with the
Kron for now, but you may want
to stop by Nestor's cave first,
and give him the Relic you
found. You should also give
Rouge any Nocturnus tech you
have gathered. When you're
ready, go to the computer and
fly to N'rrgal Colony.

MISSION - Journey into the
Unknown COMPLETE

Your total for Kron Colony
should be:

RINGS: 80/80
CHAO EGGS: 8/8

MISSIONS COMPLETED
Journey into the Unknown

MISSIONS PENDING
Secret Operations?
Relics of the Past

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.8 - CHAPTER 8: SECTOR
SCYLLA
--------------------------------

N'RRGAL COLONY

MISSION - Sector Scylla

Pick a team to explore this
world (you'll need Big for this
one, and I'd recommend Amy too,
for one of the eggs), and head
outside. Your ship will
instantly be set upon by a group
of N'rrgal drones. They don't
damage the ship at all, but they
do take away its power. You get
to choose what to do here. If
you don't want to battle, you
can just let them be.
Alternatively, if you walk over
to them you can battle them
anyway. But if you choose in
your conversation to fight them,
they'll mutate into N'rrgal
warriors before the battle
begins, which have over twice as
much HP as the drones do.

Go down the ramp and you'll
immediately be approached by a
drone, who'll tell you that you
need to go and have a word with
the Queen. Sounds fair enough...
in a threatening sort of way.
Take the path around to the
right first, and get the rings
on the ledge going right. Jump
off the ledge at the end to get
Chao egg #1, then run through
the slime and up the ramp,
getting two more rings.

Go back towards the start, and
take the upper path. You'll come
across an electrical beam that
only Big can get past. Go
through, and take the right
path. Follow the rings around,
and you'll come across a large
N'rrgal not doing anything in
particular, just standing there.
Have a word of her.

MISSION - Poisoned the N'rrgal
Supply

There's a problem with the
spawning ponds - they're being
poisoned somehow, and the
N'rrgal are blaming their
longtime enemies, the Zoah.
You're being asked to
investigate the source of the
poisoning and stop it. First,
head around to the right,
through the electricity. Get the
ring (Ring count: 8) and Chao
egg #2.

Go down to the spring near by
and bounce up to the ledge. Get
the rings up here (Ring count:
15) and fight the N'rrgal if you
want. Then jump back down to
where the spring is, and take
the upper path leading around to
the left. Get the rings and
fight the N'rrgal. Ignore the
spring - instead, go back to the
ramp and go down it. Down here
you'll find rings (Ring count:
27), an item box containing the
second Nocturne relic, a N'rrgal
to fight, and Chao egg #3.

Go back up the ramp, and jump
down into the slime pit nearby
which has a spring in it. Get
the rings, and follow the path
along to the left, where you'll
come across some N'rrgal spawn
to fight... spawn that are
strangely black. After the
battle, Tails will notice that
the spawn didn't seem quite
right. Follow the path along to
the left and into a cave, and
you'll find the source - a
Swatbot that somehow got here.
Take it down, and you'll find a
strange tablet.

MISSION - The Argus Event

You should take this to Nestor
the next time you're able to get
back to Kron Colony. In the
meantime, you've destroyed the
source of the poisoning. Take
the item box and return to the
N'rrgal who wanted you to find
the poisoning to finish the
mission.

MISSION - Poisoning the N'rrgal
Supply COMPLETE

Go back to the ship, and take
the path around to the left.
Follow the path of rings around
past a N'rrgal warrior to a dash
ramp (Ring count: 37). Dash
across, then go through the beam
to the left, around and into the
cave. Inside you'll find the
N'rrgal Queen, who'd like a
word. She has a Chaos Emerald
that she's willing to give you,
but she wants you to do
something first. Their enemies,
the Zoah, have a secret weapon
she's worried about. If you can
bring it back to her, the
Emerald is yours.

Leave the cave, and follow the
path around to the right,
getting the rings. You'll come
across a N'rrgal just hanging
around, who'll mention that
Shadow has been zooming around,
if he's not on your team. This
N'rrgal will give you a side
mission later, so remember where
he is. Go past him, and use Amy
to smash through the box
blocking your access to Chao egg
#4.

Keep going along the path, smash
through the boxes at the other
end, and get the last of the
rings (Ring count: 45). Then go
back to the Queen's cave, and
take the spring outside to reach
Chao egg #5. Use the spring on
that ledge, and go back to the
ship. You'll find that while the
power has been restored, the nav
computer has been meddled with,
allowing you to go to only one
place - Zoah Colony. Well, you'd
better get going.

Your total for N'rrgal Colony
should be:

RINGS: 45/45
CHAO EGGS: 5/5

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Poisoned the N'rrgal Supply

MISSIONS PENDING
Secret Operations?
Sector Scylla
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

ZOAH COLONY

Pick a team (bring a decent
flyer) and head down the ramp,
where you'll be confronted by a
Zoah brute who isn't exactly
thrilled by your arrival. You'll
battle, of course. Once you win,
head down the ramp and you'll
see a Zoah hanging around,
who'll warn you of the
Nightstalker.

MISSION - The Nightstalker
MISSION - The Nightstalker:
Haniman

Some sort of monster is
terrorising the Zoah population.
You need to talk to more Zoah to
find out what's going on. Get
the rings and avoid the cannon
in the corner - it will shoot
out lasers that drain your HP if
they hit. You may want to have
Rouge or Shade on your team, as
they can use stealth and avoid
being spotted by the cannons. I
don't personally find it that
useful, but that's just my
opinion.

Head around the corner and get
the rings surrounding the
building near the cannon, and
talk to Zoah nearby on the
corner. This one will mention
pirates wreaking havoc around
the Twilight Cage. Talk to him a
few more times, and he'll also
mention the Nightstalker, and
someone named Telra.

MISSION - Pirates of the
Twilight Cage MISSION - The
Nightstalker: Telra

Go around the corner to the item
store, fighting the Zoah and
getting the rings (Ring count:
14). If you want to stock up on
items, now's a good time. Go
back to the Zoah you last spoke
with, and go down the ramp near
him and through the door on the
left. There's a Zoah inside to
fight, and an item box.

Back outside, there's another
Zoah you can talk to and get
information out of. You can
question him to get more
information on the pirates, the
Nightstalker, and also General
Raxos and the secret weapon. Get
as much information out of him
as you can, then go up and
around the corner, getting the
rings, to find Haniman. Talk to
him about the charms and the
Nightstalker until you're
attacked by what turns out to be
just a hologram of a Dragodon.
As a bonus, you'll get another
Precursor tablet that you can
take back to Nestor later.

MISSION - The Nightstalker
COMPLETE MISSION - The
Nightstalker: Telra COMPLETE
MISSION - The Nightstalker:
Haniman COMPLETE

Keep going around, go through
the door, and get the rings and
the item box inside. Outside,
you'll find a few more rings
(Ring count: 24), and Chao egg
#1 on the left.

Go down the path, around and
down to a doorway. There are
three rings inside, and another
item box. Outside, follow the
path around to the right, along
the ledge, getting the rings and
going through the door. This
will take you to Chao egg #2
(Ring count: 37). Go back to the
fork in the path and go left.
Get the couple of rings, and go
through the door above you.
There's another Zoah to fight
inside, as well as an item box
containing the third Nocturne
relic.

Go around to the left and get
the rings, and go through the
door on the right. There's a
Zoah inside to fight, and four
rings (Ring count: 48). Go back
outside, and take the ramp on
the left. Get the rings up here
(Ring count:
51). Right at the top of the
   ramp you'll find a fly point.
   Use it, and then
take the next fly point to get
to the roof of the citadel. In
the corner you'll find Chao egg
#3.

Jump down from the roof, and run
over to the other end of this
area to find a dash ramp. Use
it, and you'll be bounced around
to a roof. Jump down from there
to get the last four rings (Ring
count: 55), and Chao egg #4.

Now to get the Chaos Emerald.
There are two ways to go about
this - when you approach the
guard at the door of the
citadel, you can choose what to
say. If you say that you want to
issue a challenge and apply for
citizenship, then you'll be
taken directly to the major
battle. If you say you want the
Chaos Emerald, then you'll have
to take a detour to get there.
It involves fighting more Zoah
along the way, as well as
solving a puzzle (Beware, it
involves maths!), but you'll
also get more item boxes on the
way.

If you want to fight the guard,
then after the battle go over to
the Zoah standing by the dash
ramp that took you to egg #4.
He'll activate the puzzle for
you, which only requires two of
your party. This puzzle took me
awhile to figure out - thanks to
both Evildarknight and
SpacePirateKhan for taking the
time to explain it for me.

You'll be given an example first
- 9, 1, 4, 6. The number on the
right, 6, is bigger than the
other three. What you're looking
at is a mathematical equation
- three numbers that when added
  and subtracted together
  properly, will give
you the answer in the fourth
circle. 9 + 1 - 4 = 6. Make one
character stand on the switch on
the left. Three new numbers will
appear - perhaps 8, 2, and
7. Have your second character
   stand next to the other
   switch and push it.
Numbers will scroll in the
answer circle. To complete the
puzzle, you need to hit the
switch when the answer the other
three numbers add up to appears.
So if you have 8, 2, and 7, then
the answer you want is 3: 8 + 2
- 7 = 3.

The door will unlock, and you'll
be able to enter the citadel. Go
around to the right where you'll
have to fight a Zoah. When you
get to the intersection, you'll
find an item box on the left.
The upper path leads to another
Zoah and item box. Take the
right path next, dodging the
lasers from the cannons, and
you'll find the second Chaos
Emerald. Of course, taking it
isn't that easy. You'll be
teleported into an arena where
you instantly get into a fight,
so you may want to save before
you approach the Chaos Emerald.

If you issued the challenge at
the door, then this is where you
come in at. Issuing the
challenge rather than fighting
the guard at the door gives you
the chance to run around the
arena and gather the items in
the boxes before you fight, as
well as to save before you
begin. You'll start with one
single Zoah to fight, then
another two right after the
single. (You come in after those
two battles if you fought the
guard at the door)

Then you'll have to fight the
champion - a Zoah commander -
and two brutes. Once you beat
them, you have to face General
Raxos in a one on one battle as
Sonic. The idea may be
confronting, but if you can use
axe kick well by now, you should
be fine. Beat Raxos, and you'll
win the Chaos Emerald. You'll be
taken back outside, and are
allowed to select your team
members again. If you want, you
can go back inside the citadel
for any item boxes you missed
before. You'll have to complete
the number puzzle to get back in
though, if you didn't fight the
guard at the door before.

You'll find that the Zoah brutes
are gone and that the cannons
will not fire at you any more.
Nocturnus and gizoids are
hanging around instead, which is
good news if you're looking for
more Nocturnus tech for Rouge.
Head back to the ship by way of
the ramp just north of the
citadel. At the end of that
platform is a dash ramp that
will take you to Chao egg #5.

Jump down from the ledge and
head into the ship. The N'rrgal
programmed the ship for a return
journey, so for the moment, the
only place you can fly to is
N'rrgal Colony.

Your total for Zoah Colony
should be:

RINGS: 55/55
CHAO EGGS: 5/5

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
The Nightstalker
The Nightstalker: Telra
The Nightstalker: Haniman

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secret Operations?
Sector Scylla
Pirates of the Twilight Cage
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

N'RRGAL COLONY

You may want to have a word with
Shadow before you head out,
about his running around when
not on your team. It doesn't
result in a side quest or
anything, but it's interesting.
Pick your team - don't forget
Big - and head out. You won't
get far before the N'rrgal Queen
bounds up, eager to hear how you
went. When she sees that you've
taken the Chaos Emerald from the
Zoah, she'll hand hers over too.
Sweet! Now the N'rrgal will no
longer fight you, but again,
you'll have Nocturnus and
gizoids to deal with.

Use the dash ramp in the lower
left corner, and go over to
speak with the N'rrgal near
where you got Chao egg #4 (top
right corner of the map). He'll
complain about the pirates
raiding their shipments, so you
can offer to deliver the
shipment to Kron yourself.

MISSION - Pirates: The N'rrgal
Shipment

You'll be given the shipment
deliver. With no other pressing
business here for the moment,
you should now return to the
ship, and head for Kron Colony.

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Sector Scylla

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secret Operations?
Pirates of the Twilight Cage
Pirates: N'rrgal Shipment
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

Before you're even given a
chance to put in your
destination, the pirates will
come to raid your ship. Pick
your team, and give them a good
thrashing. You'll get a
Precursor tablet out of them
when you win - which should be
the third you've found so far.
Now go to the computer and
select Kron Colony.

KRON COLONY

First, head down to Nestor's
cave and deliver the Nocturne
relics and Precursor tablets to
him. Then head for the item
store (where you met with
foreman Krag) to deliver the
N'rrgal shipment. You need to
take it to the first Kron you
see when you enter the cave.

MISSION - Pirates of the
Twilight Cage COMPLETE

Now return to the ship and go
back to N'rrgal Colony.

MISSIONS COMPLETED: Pirates of
the Twilight Cage

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secret Operations?
Pirates: N'rrgal Shipment
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

N'RRGAL COLONY

Return to the shopkeeper and
take the payment back to him to
complete the mission.

MISSION - Pirates: N'rrgal
Shipment COMPLETE

Head back to the ship and plug
in the coordinates for Voxai
Colony.

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Pirates: N'rrgal Colony

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secrets Operations?
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.9 - CHAPTER 9: SECTOR
CHARYBDIS
--------------------------------

VOXAI COLONY BETA

MISSION - SECTOR CHARYBDIS

Pick your team (you'll need
someone who can use teleport -
either Shadow or Shade) and head
out of the ship. Get the rings
up here and jump down. You'll
notice Voxai hovering around,
but they're peaceful for the
moment so you don't need to
worry about them battling you if
they get close. In fact, you'll
find that they don't have much
on their minds at all if you try
speaking to them. If you talk to
three of them, it will become
clear that they're under some
sort of mind control.

If you go through the door on
the left, you'll be confronted
by a Voxai who does want to
battle - note that the peaceful
ones are purple, and the angry
ones are red. Get the item box
in here and leave. Go south from
here to get some rings and Chao
egg #1. Follow the rings around
to the item shop (Ring count: 8)
and stock up on anything you
need.

Go back around to your ship, and
get the rings to the right -
follow the trail around to the
dash ramp. You'll see Chao egg
#2 inside a large pink crystal
nearby. Switch to your
teleporting character and you
can go inside to get it. In the
house on the right, you'll find
Chao egg #3.

Back outside, go to the little
blue stone next to the dash ramp
you can use - it'll teleport you
to an island in the bottom right
corner (you don't need to use
your teleporting character).
From that island, take the next
teleporter, get the rings (Ring
count: 19), and jump up onto the
ledge. Go into the house on the
left and open the item box to
find your fourth Nocturne relic.

Back outside, you'll find
another pink crystal you can
teleport into for Chao egg #4.
Get the rings, go inside the
next house, and get the item
box. Outside this house is a
Voxai you should talk to.

MISSION - Overmind Interference

Croesus has been cut off from
the Overmind, and asks you to
investigate the lurking
Nocturnus for him. Go down to
where the rings are (Ring count:
25), and take the teleporter
here to reach an island where
you'll find Chao egg #5, and the
meddling Nocturnus. Beat them
up, then take the teleporter
back to where you started.

Go back to the dash ramp in the
corner of the map and use it to
meet Thebes, who'll invite you
to discuss what to do next at
his home. Get the rings at the
bottom of this cliff, and take
the teleporter to the next
cliff, right next to the one
with Thebes' home. You can't
reach it from here though. Get
the rings (Ring count: 35), and
jump across to the mainland. Use
the teleporter near the dash
ramp, and go have another chat
with Croesus.

MISSION - Overmind Interference
COMPLETE

Use the dash ramp nearby to get
to Thebes' house. Grab the last
ring nearby (Ring count: 45),
and go inside. Grab the fourth
precursor tablet from the item
box, then talk to Thebes to
discuss how you'll grab the
Chaos Emeralds. Unfortunately,
your plans are interrupted when
Thebes' friends are assimilated,
and you'll be forced to fight
them.

Head back to the dash ramp that
will take you to the Alpha
transporter (top right corner of
the map). You'll find that the
Voxai have been turned against
you now, and are an angry red
colour. They'll battle you now,
should you run into them, but
they're easy enough to avoid.

You may want to save before you
use the dash ramp, because once
you get to the transporter
you'll be launched into battle
against Thelxe, a high-level
Voxai operative, and two others.
Thebes will give you their Great
Emerald once you win, as well as
the teleporter code to allow you
to go to Colony Alpha. If you
need to switch your team, now's
the time to do it. On Alpha,
you'll need a teleporter and a
flyer, and you'll have an easier
time if you take a climber and
Amy as well (This might be a
good time for me to point out
that Shade has both teleport and
climb). Once you're ready,
approach the transporter and let
'er rip!

Your total for Voxai Colony Beta
should be:

RINGS: 45/45
CHAO EGGS: 5/5

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Overmind Interference

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secret Operations?
Sector Charybdis
Relcis of the Past
The Argus Event

VOXAI COLONY ALPHA

Begin by teleporting off the
ledge on your left into the pink
crystal, teleporting out on the
ledge, and jumping down to grab
Chao egg #1. Jump down and run
around to the right, where
you'll find a hostile Voxai
ready to fight. You won't be
finding many friendly Voxai
here, I'm afraid.

Run back to the start, getting
the rings, and teleport off the
ledge on the left again.
Teleport out, get the rings, and
fly to the next ledge. Get the
rings (Ring count: 11) and fight
(or dodge, whichever you prefer)
the Voxai. Jump up the ledge,
and follow the path around to
the left. Teleport down to the
next area, and you'll find Chao
egg #2 in another one of those
pink crystals you can teleport
into nearby.

Follow the path down, getting
the rings (Ring count: 16), and
near the bottom of the map
there's a pink crystal with a
spring to teleport into. Go
inside, and it will bounce you
to Chao egg #3. Jump back to the
mainland, and teleport into the
pink crystal on the right. From
there, you can teleport to
another crystal right of there
for egg #4.

Teleport back to the left, and
grab the item box in the corner
to find the fifth and final
Nocturne relic. Then follow the
rings to a box Amy can smash to
reach Chao egg #5. Go around and
use the dash ramp, then teleport
into the pink crystal. Go down
the path and teleport into the
next crystal to get Chao egg #6.

Get the rings nearby (Ring
count: 23) and go through the
doorway in the ramp to get an
itembox. Go back up to the top
of the ramp, and get the rings
in the area (Ring count: 29). On
the right, you'll find the first
docile Voxai you've seen on
Alpha. Talk to him to begin
another puzzle. Have one of your
characters hit the switch, and
the other three go to the
switches down the hill.

The key to solving this puzzle
is by counting the number of
times the lights flash. One of
the colours will light up - if
it flashes once, then have your
character standing on that
switch push it. If it flashes
twice, then don't push anything.
Each time you get the button
pushing or non-pushing right,
the number will count down from
ten by one. Once you get down to
zero, you'll now be able to
access the arena in the middle
of the map - which will be the
only dark area left on the map
to you by now.

If you have a climber with you,
you can save yourself some time
and effort by using the climb
wall nearby to get back to the
start. Then you just run to the
left edge of that ledge and jump
down. If you came here without
Knuckles or Shade, you'll have
to go all the way back around.
If you go to the bottom of the
dash ramp and through the
doorway again, you can teleport
back into the pink crystal where
you found Chao egg #4. Go back
around the ledges until you find
a place to jump down in the
arena - but it's boss time
again, so you may want to save.

You'll now be pitted against
three Overmind Voxai, who hold
the Chaos Emeralds you're
looking for. Beat them up, take
the Emeralds, and then go to the
bottom of this area to get the
last six rings (Ring count: 35).
Okay, now you're done here. Go
back through the transporter to
Colony Beta, and head back to
Kron Colony.

MISSION - Sector Charybdis
COMPLETE

Your total for Voxai Colony
Alpha should be:

RINGS: 35/35
CHAO EGGS: 6/6

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Sector Charybdis

MISSIONS PENDING:
Secret Operations?
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

--------------------------------
SECTION 10.10 - CHAPTER 10:
CITADEL SHOWDOWN
--------------------------------

KRON COLONY

MISSION - Citadel Showdown

The time has come to attack Ix,
but without the cooperation of
the four alien races you've met
in the Twilight Cage, it will
never happen. But first, there
are a few pending missions you
might as well finish. Head to
Nestor's cave and hand over the
remaining relics and precursor
tablets you've gathered. You'll
get a nice, healthy dosage of
experience points in return!

MISSION - Relics of the Past
COMPLETE MISSION - The Argus
Event COMPLETE

Now head over to Krag's cave and
sit in on the Twilight Congress.
Convince the groups to work
together, and you've just bought
yourself a ticket to Nocturne.
You won't be able to get back
once you leave, so now is the
time to stock up on any items
you want to buy - and the
storekeeper just happens to be
in this same cave.

Head back to the ship once the
meeting's finished. If you
haven't finished Rouge's mission
yet, now's probably the best
time to do that. There are
plenty of Nocturnus around -
just fight them until you get
the amount of tech you need,
then go back to the ship and
talk to Rouge.

MISSION - Secret Operations
COMPLETE

Talk to Tails when you're ready,
and you're off to the final
level.

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Secret Operations
Relics of the Past
The Argus Event

MISSIONS PENDING:
Citadel Showdown

NOCTURNE

Touch down on Nocturne, and
you'll be confronted by two
gizoid prefects, who happen to
have the last two Chaos Emeralds
you need. Knuckles wants to
split your team up again, so
pick two to go with Sonic and
Tails, and another two to go
with Knuckles and Shade. You
don't need to worry about map
exploring abilities - the ones
already on each team should have
everything you need, so
concentrate on who you want to
be battling with.

You start with Sonic's team. Get
the rings and cross the bridge,
fighting or avoiding the
Nocturnus as you please. You
might notice the Nocturnus here
are a bit tougher than those
you've fought before. You need
to go through the door on the
left, but you'll find it locked.
Go through the other door where
another Nocturnus will jump you.
Follow the rings around to a
switch (Ring count: 12), turn it
on, and jump onto the ledge to
grab the item box. Then go back
outside, and through the door
you unlocked.

You'll switch to Knuckles' team
now. Follow the rings to a fly
point (Ring count: 17). You
can't go any further for the
moment though, and you'll switch
back to Sonic. A Nocturnus will
come charging at you, so fight
or dodge him and get the rings
down here, then use the spring
to jump onto the ledge. There's
a red arrow nearby, next to a
deactivated gizoid. It's a
doorway you can go through.
Outside you'll find a fly point
which Tails can use to get to
Chao egg #1 and two rings (Ring
count: 25). Fly back to the
start from there, and go through
the door on the left again. This
time ignore the spring, and
follow the path around to the
right past a gizoid and outside.
Collect the rings and Chao egg
#2, then go to your left and get
those rings (Ring count:
32) and go through the door.

Get the rings in this room, and
you'll find Chao egg #3 on a
platform on the left side of the
room. Tails can fly up and get
it. Then go back to the door you
just came through and go outside
again. A Nocturnus will charge
at you when you go through the
door. After the fight, go around
to your left, getting the rings
(Ring count: 41) and then flip
the switch to help Knuckles out.

Fly over the gap as Knuckles (or
any other flyer you brought),
and deal with the Nocturnus on
the other side. There's an item
box inside the building, if you
want it. A gizoid will get in
your way if you go in though. Go
back out the way you came and
get the rings, then fly over the
gap to get more rings (Ring
count: 46) and Chao egg #4.

You might want to take a moment
to save here. Then climb the
wall you're standing next to. At
the top, some gizoid centurions
will confront you. You'll
probably notice how sparkly they
are - they have forcefields that
you're unable to penetrate
except with POW moves. Use them
if you want, but all you really
have to do for this battle is
wait them out. After two rounds,
you'll come to the conclusion
that they're unstopable, and
radio Tails for help.

Switching back to Sonic's team,
you need to go back through the
first door you come to. There's
a deactivated gizoid nearby that
you need to inspect. Tails wants
to find more of them though, so
start with the one on the other
side of the room, next to where
you found egg #3. Then go
through the doorway nearby and
down the stairs. You'll find
yourself on the ledge with the
door that took you to the first
egg. There's another gizoid
nearby to look at. The last one
you need is found by jumping
down from the ledge, and going
down the passage on the right.

You'll switch back to Knuckles'
team, and now that the gizoids
have no shields it will be a
fairer fight. Fly over the gap
on your left, where there's
another Nocturnus to fight.
Follow the rings to a climbing
wall, and go up. There's a
gizoid up here, guarding Chao
egg #5 and several rings. Follow
the ring trail around to your
right, past a climbing wall, and
to a doorway. Go through the
door and it will take you to a
path with more rings (Ring
count:
63), and another gizoid to face.
   Go back to the climbing wall
   and climb up
to confront Scylla. Don't worry
about saving - you switch back
to Sonic's team before the
battle begins.

Head outside now, back to the
point where you flipped the
switch earlier to help Knuckles.
There's a dash ramp nearby which
will take you to Chao egg #6,
but make sure you're happy with
your team before you use it, as
you will be unable to return to
the Cyclone once you pass this
point. Get the rings near where
the gizoid is patrolling, then
use the next dash ramp. Get the
rings here and deal with the
gizoid, then go up the ramp and
inside.

Charyb is here to confront you,
and rather unsportingly floods
the building with water. Whilst
underwater your PP will decrease
until empty, and then your HP
will follow suit. Also, you
won't be able to use POW moves
in battle. Go left along the
corridor, and you'll come to a
pocket of air bubbles. These
will fully restore your PP, but
not your HP, so make sure you
use them regularly in here.
Follow the rings around to a
fork in the path, offering to
let you go up or right. Go up,
past the Nocturnus, and at the
end of the passage you'll find
Chao egg #7.

Go back to the air bubbles, and
into the room on the right where
a Nocturnus is on guard. There's
an air pocket at the back of the
room, and rings in the middle.
Go through the door on the
right, and on the right side of
the passage you'll find Chao egg
#8. Go to the air pocket in the
doorway, where the wandering
Nocturnus will probably attack
you.

There's nothing to the left in
this passage, so go back into
the central room, and take the
upper door on the left this
time. Get the rings (Ring count:
90) and restore your air, then
go through the door on the
right.

Run over to the air pocket and
restore yourself, then you
should probably save. Go up the
ramp and around to confront
Charyb. This fight is similar to
the one Knuckles had earlier
with the gizoid prefects, in
that it's mainly a waiting game.
You can do regular attacks on
Charyb, but because you're
unable to use your POW moves, it
doesn't do a lot of good.
Concentrate on surviving for
three rounds, through use of
items and Tails or Cream, if you
brought her, then you can switch
to Knuckles' team.

Knuckles has his own problems
though, fighting Scylla.
Fortunately, there's no shields
to worry about here, and you can
use as many POW moves as you
have PP for. It's just a
standard boss fight, with a
Chaos Emerald as the prize for
winning. After you win, you
might want to save, as
apparently there's a glitch that
can happen in the next room
which will stop you from getting
one of the Chao eggs.

Go inside, and get the rings
(Ring count: 101), as well as
Chao egg #9 in the left corner,
and an item box in the right
corner, then flip the valve
switch. You'll switch back to
Sonic's team, and now be able to
battle Charyb in a fair fight,
with no POW restrictions. You'll
get the last Chaos Emerald once
you defeat him.

Back on Knuckles' team, if you
need to change anyone on your
team, now will be your last
chance to go back to the Cyclone
to do it. If you're happy with
who you have, go back out the
door and around to the left.
Jump onto the roof, then run
across to the opposite side and
jump down. Follow the path to
the right to find Chao egg #10,
then backtrack and take the
upper path, gathering the rings
and dealing with a Nocturnus and
a gizoid as you go (Ring count:
111). Where you fight the
    Nocturnus there's a climbing
    wall - don't go up
there until after you've
finished getting the rings. When
you do, it will take you to Ix.

Back on Sonic's team, go back to
the central room you were in
earlier when everything was
underwater. You'll find a lift
at the back of the room - take
it. Upstairs, go around to your
right and bounce on the springs
to find Chao egg #11 and some
rings (Ring count: 117). Bounce
back, and you'll find some rings
outside the door to Ix's lair,
guarded by a Nocturnus. The last
rings remaining are to the left,
where another Nocturnus is
hovering (Ring count:
124). Go back to the door and
    save. When you're ready, go
    inside to confront
Ix.

Your total for Nocturnus should
be:

RINGS: 124/124
CHAO EGGS: 11/11

MISSIONS PENDING:
Citadel Showdown

You'll have to fight Ix first as
Knuckles' team. He fights you
without any teammates for now,
however he does have two power
pylons that will restore health
to his throne at the end of
every round. You can destroy
them if you want, but Ix can
easily use one of his POW moves
- Restoration - to restore them.
That said, if he's using that
move, then that's one less
attack you have to worry about.
I personally prefer to do as
much damage as I can to Ix as
quickly as possible - the pylons
will be able to restore some of
that, but not all. You don't
even have to completely knock
him out - the battle will end
when you get him down to around
800 HP - half power.

You finish this fight as Sonic's
team. It's pretty much exactly
the same fight; the only
difference is that Ix only has
860 HP this time around. Then
you'll get to pick your team for
round 3. Knuckles is trying to
get to the Master Emerald, so
you can't use him. Anyone else
is fair game. Having lost his
silly-looking chair, Ix will
summon two gizoid guardians to
fight you. But first, they're
going to try and stop Knuckles.
Usually when you fight a boss,
you're unable to flee from them.
This time it's the bosses who
are fleeing, and you have to
chase them down. There's no
boxes to jump this time, but
black orbs which do 25 damage to
anyone who doesn't jump them.
Once you catch up to the bosses,
take down Ix first - he still
has that Restoration move. Once
he's out of the way, the
guardians shouldn't give you
much trouble.

The final battle is Super Sonic
vs Ix. This battle doesn't give
you any choices as to what to
do, but instead, has both
opponents using just the one POW
move each round. You'll need to
have gotten pretty good at the
stylus tapping required of POW
moves by now, because you pretty
much need a perfect score to
knock Ix out. You have to
completely take his PP in the
one round, because he is able to
fully restore his HP at the end
of every round. Try to memorise
the tapping sequence - this
makes it easier to get the
sequence right.

MISSIONS COMPLETED:
Citadel Showdown

Once you've won the battle you
can watch the ending sequence
and then choose whether or not
to read the credits, which is
mildly amusing. After that, you
start from the beginning of
Chapter 1 again with all of the
Chao and items you've gathered,
and on your current level. This
gives you the oppurtunity to go
back through the game to get any
rings or Chao eggs you missed,
finish all the side quests, and
have all your characters reach
the elusive level 30.

That's it! Yay!

--------------------------------
SECTION 11 - FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS
--------------------------------

If you have a question you'd
like answered here, email me
(mattsutton@y7mail.com) and I'll
add it in.

Q: Is this game worth buying? A:
I can't answer that for you, as
everyone has a different
opinion. I think it's great
myself, but I'm a major Sonic
fan, and I also enjoy the
occasional RPG. I find this game
a lot better than Sonic '06, but
then that doesn't take much. I'd
recommend this game, but when
push comes to shove, you can
only judge for yourself whether
or not you'll like it.

Q: Who should I have on my team?
A: This also comes down to
personal preferences, but I like
to focus on attack power in
battle, keeping field
exploration in mind, but making
it secondary. My favourite team
to use is Sonic, Cream, Omega,
and either Shadow or Knuckles,
depending on my mood and the
environment.

Q: Which Chao should I equip? A:
Again, this comes down to
personal preferences, but I
personally like a combination of
any of the following: Bobo -
you'll get an extra item after
battle. Choopaloo - increases
the amount of experience points
you get after battle. Ferox -
bonded character's POW moves are
always successful. Joy -
regenerates some HP for the
whole team after each round.
Hayda - regenerates PP at the
start of combat round for all
team members. Fess is also a
good one to have equipped, if
you're trying to find more of
the rare or unique Chao.

Q: I've completed the game and
followed your guide to get all
the eggs, but I haven't found
all 40 Chao! How come? A: When
you pick up an egg, what it will
hatch as is determined randomly.
You can increase your chances of
finding a rare or unique Chao by
equipping Fess to your party.
You may want to check the list
in my guide, and figure out
which ones you're missing - if
they're not rare, then Fess
won't help you much. Another
method is to save just after you
get an egg, and if you get a
Chao you already have when it
hatches, then switch off the
power and try again - you should
get something else instead.
Combining this method with
having Fess on your team ought
to do the trick. Good luck!

Q: How do I save the game? A: Go
to the menu by tapping the
little icon in the corner, then
tap the laptop icon.

Q: What do you mean by "Shifter"
class in your character
profiles? A: I have no idea,
quite honestly. That's Bioware's
term, not mine. Check the
character profiles from the menu
if you don't believe me.

Q: Where are the Central City
hideouts in chapter two, and how
do I get to them? A: Mission
objectives are marked with stars
on the map. You can usually find
a fly point nearby that will get
you to where you need. Explore
the whole map, and you should
find a way. That said, the
hideout most people miss in
Central City is reached by the
rooftops - you need to complete
the pipe switch puzzle to gain
access.

Q: How do I get that one ring
near the pipe puzzle in Central
City? A: After finishing the
pipe puzzle, go through it and
down the dash ramp with Sonic.
Then switch to Tails or Cream
(whichever of them has Fly II),
and go back up the rooftops you
passed during your dash. There's
a fly point up the top. See the
walkthrough for a more detailed
explanation.

Q: How do I get to the left side
of Central City, to fight the
Swatbots in the Mechanical
Mugger mission? A: There's a
dash ramp near the road that
leads to Mystic Ruins that takes
you there.

Q: How many Eggman devices are
there in Chapter 3, and where do
I find them all? A: 5 in total.
You get two in Central City: 1
from the forgetful Swatbot near
the Eggman base, and one for
returning the storekeeper's
stapler. There's another in the
Green Hill Zone which you get by
fighting the scorpions in the
cave near Dr. Madden. And
there's two in the Mystic Ruins:
one you get from the
roboarmadillos in the north west
building, and one which you get
from Shadow, by the fans.

Q: Where's this storekeeper I
have to find the stapler for? A:
Go to the item shop in Central
City, and follow the path past
it to a building on the left.

Q: How do I defeat the two
Swatbots Mk II in Eggman's base?
They keep on regenerating
whenever I knock them out! A:
What you need to do is chip away
at their HP one at a time until
they both only have a little
left, and then finish both of
them off in the one round. If
you only defeat them one at a
time in a round, then as you
discovered, they'll keep using
self repair. So whittle away at
them until their health is close
to zero, then finish them off.

Q: How do I get the Chao egg
above the south entrance to the
underground in Metropolis? A:
You need to complete the switch
puzzle in the north side of the
city, and gain access to the
escalator. Fly from the left fly
point at the top to a tower, and
jump down to the ledge. On the
left side of that ledge is a fly
point that will take you to the
egg.

Q: How do I get the egg on the
roof of the building where you
fight the Zoah general? A:
There's a small ramp to the
north of that roof, and there's
a fly point right next to it at
the top. From there you fly to a
roof which has another fly
point. That one will take you to
the egg.

Q: How do I open the item box in
Thebes' house? A: You have to
complete a side mission first,
called Overmind Interference.
Look for a tame Voxai on the
left side of the map called
Croesius. Full details are in
the Walkthrough section.

Q: I can't get Knuckles' last
egg on Nocturne - as soon as I
turn the water off with
Knuckles, I get taken to Ix.
What's going on? A: This is a
glitch in the game apparently;
it seems there's a couple. I've
heard of one in Metropolis too.
Mayor_Quimby, who put me on to
this particular glitch,
theorises that this glitch
happens by either:
1. Running past the switch with
   the valve to drain the water,
   or
2. Spending too much time in the
   room with the valve.
He recommends that you if run
out of the room as soon as you
switch off the valve, you should
be fine. Thanks, Mayor_Quimby!

Q: What's this you said about a
SonAmy scene? A: I haven't seen
it for myself, but apparently if
you are nice to Amy for the
whole game, she and Sonic have a
moment on Nocturne. I can never
resist being mean and rude to
her though!

Q: Does Super Sonic appear in
this game? A: Yep. As usual, he
shows up for the finale.

Q: I don't like the ending to
this game. Is there any way to
change it? A: Not as far as I
know. Maybe if you max out every
character's level and POW moves,
find all the rings and Chao
eggs, complete every side
mission, and be nice enough to
Amy to get the SonAmy scene...
but I doubt it.

Q: Do the rings come back when
you begin the game again? If
not, how can I raise money for
items? A: The only rings that
respawn are the ones that you
missed in your previous
playthrough of the game. If you
got all but 3 rings in Green
Hill Zone, for instance, then
only those 3 rings will be there
still. The best way to make cash
is by selling off items you
won't use - so go around to all
the item boxes, and battle as
much as you can to build up
items. You'll find when you
return to Green Hill Zone, on
level 18 or so, you won't need
to buy many items for awhile, as
you'll be able to beat the
enemies here so easily.
Mayor_Quimby had a great
suggestion that you can attach
Bobo to each of the four
characters on your team
(assuming you have four Bobos),
and that will give you five
items after every battle. This
can really help you raise some
money. Thanks for the tip,
Mayor_Quimby!

Q: How can I get up to the
maximum level for my characters
(level 30)? A: This is tricky,
considering that once you get up
to a certain level, the amount
of experience you get from
battles takes a serious dive -
first to half as much, and then
down to only 10 experience
points. The best experience
points you can get are from
fighting bosses, enemies in the
later levels, and by completing
puzzles and side quests. Of
course, you'll get the most
experience from fighting the
bosses on Nocturne. Once you've
levelled up to a certain point,
apparently they're the only ones
who'll give you decent
experience any more. (Thanks to
Hypersupersonicthehedgehog for
this tip!)

--------------------------
SECTION 12 - LEGAL DETAILS
--------------------------

Sonic the Hedgehog and co., and
Sonic Chronicles: The Dark
Brotherhood don't belong to me;
they're the property of
Sonicteam, Bioware and SEGA.
This game guide DOES belong to
me, however. I intend to publish
it on gamefaqs.com, cheatcc.com,
gamesradar.com, cheatplanet.com,
and mycheats.com ONLY. Feel free
to save it to your hard drive
for easy access, or link to it
on your website, but you may not
put it on your own website and
claim it as your own work.
That's piracy. And I know that
piracy is what the internet is
all about, but there is a creed
between guide writers.

At least, I like to think there
is.

In summary: this guide is the
property of Matt Sutton (better
known online as Kyle Gon Jinn or
Scruffy). Read it, save it,
refer to it as often as you
like, but don't claim it as your
own work, yadda yadda yadda. If
you want to put it on your
website, email me first and ask.
I won't say no unless I have a
good reason.

----------------------------
SECTION 13 - CONTACT DETAILS
----------------------------

If you're having trouble with
this game (or just want to say a
quick cheerio, and how much this
guide helped you out), then
don't hesitate to get in touch
with me. The best way to contact
me is by emailing me - my
address is
mattsutton@y7mail.com. Any input
or questions about this guide or
the game it's written about
would be greatly appreciated, as
will the pointing out of any
errors I may have made. Hate
mail... not appreciated so much.
:oP

-----------------------
SECTION 14 - THANKS TO:
-----------------------

I'd like to thank the
following...

- Sonictrainer, who gave me the
  full Chao list when I still
  hadn't found them
all.
- xShadowoftheNight, for his tip
  about Shadow's Atomic Strike
  POW move.
- Shane (Mayor_Quimby), for
  finding the Chao egg I
  couldn't track down on
Nocturne, and also alerting me
to the water valve glitch and
his tip on raising further money
when you've found all the rings.
- QA Monkey, for his tip on how
  the experience and level up
  system works.
- Hypersupersonicthehedgehog,
  for his tip on maxxing your
  characters' levels.
- Evildarknight and
  SpacePirateKhan, for
  explaining the Zoah number
  puzzle to
me.
- gamefaqs.com, for always
  having answers when I'm
  struggling with a game.
- and you, for reading.
  Seriously, I thrive on
  attention. :P
