
    M.
   MMMMMM@ :MMMMM7             .
Xaai,XiMMM  8MB    .:;7r7: :  X
 ZMMM@MMMS  , ,W2. .M  ,iii::,  
 2r  7MMM,  aS82MMSi  .   aW2M S
   MMWMMM0.  S0    W M0MMr  0ZiX
 ;MMMr;S,W 2 :.     .,BMMr: M  :
  .;aMr2BZSZM@,    M80 .M  ,  , 
 iMM02. ,;,.MS ,MMM   . 8M;.;Z  
  M     ..   0    BB,   r    7  
  Mi,.,::..S@M: MM MS MMMM0WM  r
  MS,.., M   ::82:  MX;:  .     
  SW  . 7  :.        i MM X  X@;
   MBa    .W;M88MX          XM@2
   M BMM0 M  M ;MMM@XS   ;MM@i  
   M  W M W  ,     MZMMMMSB  SMM
   MM@  MMM, aM  MM82M2;r0ZW@  0
    MM  Z  M M MMMXM  S80Xi8@M; 
 M2Z  B M M WMM   WMiBMMWM0WX M;
 M  a  B X rM  i,MrSM   ZMZ80iMM
 M@S  a  M M M B@a;Mr   ,M rr  M
  MM r.   a  X0arZM M0 0M rr72 .
  i @X8MM 0SBZ;SM:MM  MM 77X@   
  7MBaX   ZWMMZWM2X W r@M SX7W a
 M    00X8  BSWMr ;S; MWM ZaMM  
 XMM iMSi   Z;;MM  WX@  :M@iB   
    MW0SMa XS28Z2;,M  0MZ; MM  7
  BM0a;ZW i80 r B Mi  M Z  :.aM 
0MMM22rM X2B ;MZi2 288 7 WM;i M
M M;MMB0WaMMMWWM; 8:S;:.;BM M
  MMMBMM  2;W.SB  M:;8 2      2 
 M2 iM    Zi8iZ        @MMMMMMWX
 :    Zr; MMMMM B MZM     M    r
  ,Wr MMMMMMMMMMMi.      W@WM  M
  .M2Z      MM MMMZ8MMMMM W0M  M
  M;i       M  2ZMWM0XX08,BM  a.
  W72MMMS  8;W2S r@;ZMW0W@ M  0 
  WX2@M0MMrM2W8WZZiiS772BMZM  MS
  W8708SaBM XXX82@WWar2,i.@Z  MX
  .M22MW00M:ZaXrSiS2Z0W0MXS2M  M
  .M: 8ZSZr7BW@Z8rSXXXSr2aZ2M  M
  MXi7i.iXaSSaa@ZMB088SZaaaM  M7
  MBM7W0BaS22aXaraa80W8WWWWM  M;
  MZW7@aBBB8ZaXZ7Z22a88MMMMM  M 
  M8B7Wa08800W8M0MMMMMMZ:     M 
  M8W7WaB@MMMMMMB2i           MM
  MMMMMMMM@X                    
  2MM0i                         
      M@MZ:rrMMMMMa@@M2M;
      M@ XZMMMMS  :SBMMM8
           SB WMMMM.
             ,@W77


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
Sonic Rush FAQS/Guide
Version 1.6: 10/3/06
One Year Anniversary Edition
By Angnix (Angela Petersen)
angnix@gmail.com
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ FAQs
(Frequently Asked Questions)
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ I'm
putting this right in the front
of the guide because there are
just certain questions that keep
coming up again and again and
again about this game I want to
make clear at the beginning.

Remember, there is still more
guide after this section :P


Q. How do you get the Chaos
Emeralds? A. This question is
asked a lot because you have to
read the booklet or later parts
of this guide to get the answer
and it's not very obvious in
game. See the things in Sonic's
Acts with a star in the middle
and two handles? They are called
Special Gimmicks or Special
Generators and if you have
enough Tension (at least 105% or
at least all blue with one
orange bar) and you grab one of
the handles then press X or Y
and keep X or Y pressed, you
will eventually be warped into
the Special Stage where you will
have the chance to grab a Chaos
Emerald, you need to do this
once in each of the 7 Zones.
This is described in much more
detail in the Special Stage
Section of this guide.

Q. I'm stuck in Night Carnival!
The spring things won't bounce
me high enough or I can't reach
that button! A. First you work
this spring thing by standing on
it then pushing down, the longer
you push down the longer it
charges up and the higher you
bounce up. Second, after
springing off many things, you
can push the R button and up at
the same time to do a Mid-Air
Trick... in this game and in
Sonic Advance 2 and 3 it's nifty
for getting up higher, but in
Sonic Rush it can mess you up
and slow you down a lot too...
so be careful... Blaze goes much
higher with this trick than
Sonic.

Q. I can't get past the first
rocket part of Dead Line Act 2!
A. Grab the rocket and don't
press any buttons at all. Later
on, you will have to steer the
rockets sometimes, in the Brief
Zone Description/Gameplay Tips
section under Dead Line Zone is
more detailed instructions on
how to steer the rockets.

Q. I got past the first rocket
part of Dead Line Act 2, but now
there is a wall of some sort I
can't get past! A. When you
bounce up on the spring, press
the R button and Right at the
same time and when you are
propelled to the right head for
the little wall and you can
break it. This act has a lot of
these little walls in it, they
are all broken like this, or by
using Super/Fire Boost.

Q. What do you get for getting
all S-ranks? A. Nothing, unless
you count bragging rights as
something.

Q. How do I get to places that
are too high to jump up to? A.
At the highest point after
launched off a spring or many
other level objects/gimmicks,
press the R button and up button
at the same time to do a Mid-
air Trick to increase the height
of your jump.

Q. Can you play as other
characters besides Sonic and
Blaze? A. Nope. All of the other
characters in this game are
there for story purposes... or
sometimes as a distraction
during boss battles...

Q. What does the percentage on
the Map Screen actually mean? A.
It is the percentage of Blaze's
world that has entered Sonic's
world, not how much of the game
you have completed.

Q. Can you play through Story
Mode and see the cutscenes again
without deleting the game data?
A. Sorry, nope.

Q. What deletes when you delete
game data? A. Everything
including Story Mode, Times,
Battle Records, etc... so be
careful!

Q. What's the difference between
Normal and Easy Mode? A. Bosses
need two less hits to defeat,
Final Boss has a few more
differences described in that
section.

Q. In general, what are the
differences between Sonic and
Blaze? A. Gameplay with both
characters is pretty similar,
but in general Sonic is faster
than Blaze during moves and
running, but Blaze's jumping/R
trick skills are a lot better
and even can glide a little.
Sonic rolls into a classic ball,
while Blaze becomes a fiery top
when they spin. Also Blaze can
last 45 seconds underwater
without having a breath, but
Sonic can only last 30 seconds.
And of course the obvious color,
gender, clothing and personality
differences.

Q. Why are my lives stuck on 9?
A. You actually have more than 9
lives, look on the World Map and
you will see the number you
actually have, it just displays
as 9 in level. You can have up
to 99 Lives, and the number you
have is saved when the game is
saved, so you can easily save up
lives in earlier Acts for use in
later Acts.

Q. Do I need to finish an Act to
keep a Chaos Emerald? A. If you
have completed the Act before,
you can just simply pause the
game and choose exit and you
will have your Emerald.

Q. ARRGGGHHH! Special Stage 7 is
impossible! A. I added a special
small section about this in the
Special Stage Section guide,
hard but not impossible.

Q. I have all 7 Chaos
Emeralds... where is the Extra
Zone? A. It appears in the
Character Select Menu but only
if you have beaten the game with
Sonic and Blaze also, it doesn't
matter what order you complete
Sonic and Blaze's stories and
when you get the Chaos Emeralds
but as soon as you do all three
of these things go back to the
Character Select Screen and you
will find the option to go to
the Extra Zone there. Also you
can't turn Super in regular
Zones like in the Genesis
games... Sonic Team still hasn't
brought that back.

Q. Does putting a GBA Sonic game
in the GBA slot unlock anything?
A. Nope, sorry.

Q. How and When does this game
save? A. You can't save the game
yourself, the game saves at
these times: After beating both
Acts in a Zone first time. After
beating a Boss first time. After
collecting a Chaos Emerald
(saves the emerald) After
beating the game After getting a
new high score or new time
attack or Any other record


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Thanks
Too: ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ A
special section honoring those
who have helped me with this
guide: GameFAQs/GameSpot
Messageboard Members:

Various things posted on the
messageboard have help quite a
bit, for example how to do a
Double Advanced Trick and the
presence of Homing Attack in
this game and other various
things... thanks a lot guys!

Michael: Told me via e-mail
about different jump
mechanics(okay so I really
didn't mention this anywhere but
here) and the little Easter Egg
where you can poke the
characters with the stylus.

Matthew: Told me via e-mail you
can repeat a Rail Trick on the
same Rail after a certain period
of time, but not really worth
doing it...

shadow2k: Explained to me what
the PSG soundtracks were... and
now I know more than I wanted to
ever know about PSG and even the
history of PSG chips, wow...

tjoeb123: Told me about a glitch
that can freeze the game, this
is not really a glitch guide and
it's a glitch that would rarely
come up so it's not include but
thanks, and also a couple things
that were already told to me by
a couple other people and I
discovered myself.

SonicLover: For in general being
too picky about the Sound Test
:P I changed it slightly
anyway...

Jagus: For posting about Extra
Zone I won't mention here on the
GameFAQs messageboard... and a
pointage error... just in time
to update this guide... in fact
I already submitted this version
and I put in what he said last
minute...

nonexistinghero: Set me straight
about giving a demo to other
people.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
Legal Notes:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

This guide cannot be placed on
any site without my permission.
Sonic and all related characters
copyright Sonic Team/Sega.

Sites with permission to post
any of my FAQS: www.GameFAQS.com
www.Neoseeker.com
www.cheathappens.com
faqs.ign.com www.cheats.de
www.supercheats.com
www.wogaming.com 1up.com
www.gamerstemple.com
http://www.gameplayworld.com
http://www.cheatcc.com
www.spong.com GamerHelp.com
GameSlander.com
www.absolutcheats.com

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Version
History: ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
(rest of history got too long...
here's what's new for the one
year anniversary edition)

Version 1.6: 10/3/06

Added Section 19. My Current
High Scores

New Introduction

New Question at beginning

Added Stories and Character
profiles from the Booklet

Reordered and added to Tension
and Points List

Overall Strategies added to
Bosses and revised Bosses,
including Water Palace, Night
Carnival and Altitude Limit

Erased most of Version
History... how ironic...

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
VERSION 1.6 IS HERE!!!
One Year Anniversary Edition!
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

This game came out Nov. 2005. A
lot happened between then and
now, for example in the last
year I have lived in 4 different
states! Man, I've be busy, but
not too busy to update the guide
on my favorite game! And I am
sure a lot of cool things will
happen within the next year,
like Blaze returning in Sonic
the Hedgehog for Xbox360 and
PS3! And a whole new Sonic
portable I am determined to get
a hold of and FAQ for you, Sonic
Rivals for PSP. Sonic, make me
proud in 2007!

New this version is a couple
bits of info like the fact I
never realized I could slide the
stylus across numbers in the
Special Stage... and how much of
a Speed Point reduction you get
for dying which I not only added
to the Tension and Points list
but also reordered the list to
make more sense. Another new
section is at the very end, My
Current High Scores, can you
beat me? Also I have added the
stories and characters from the
actual game booklet, the ones I
had in there are my own version
of the story, so after all this
time I decided to change it.
Another change is yet again to
the bosses! This time I have
added to each boss an "overall
strategy", often I find it
easier to go to a certain place
on the stage or other good info
to help defeat the boss overall.
Plus I revised some of the boss
strategies including Water
Palace, Night Carnival and
Altitude Limit.


Wow... just wow. Back at E3 2004
when the Nintendo DS was
announced, it was also announced
that a Sonic game would be
created for this new system. For
about a year, all we had to go
on was a demo with Sonic running
through a Green Hill- like Zone
and very sketchy details that
the new game would be Advance-
series like. I knew I would like
the game back them... About a
year ago when the DS came out, I
couldn't wait to get one, I did
get one for Christmas, I had to
make sure I had one, the Sonic
game could come out anytime!
Well... okay, so yeah, this game
came out another year after
that. But am I disappointed? Did
I wait all this time for nothing
and now I am sad I spent like
one and a half years waiting? No
way hosay... I swear, it is like
someone was reading my mind a
created a Sonic game in just my
style. The hype right now maybe
about Shadow the Hedgehog, but
he can wait till a little later.
I literally just feel so
privileged to write a FAQS about
this game.

I will also warn you that
certain parts of this guide do
contain spoilers for this game,
but I tried to confine most of
them to the Spoilers Section at
the end of this guide or when it
is necessary to talk about the
Spoilers.

Overall, this game is like the
Advance series, but made better
and a little more Genesis-like.
The amount of moves characters
can do has been lessened, and
now there are only two playable
characters, Sonic and Blaze.
Each zone has a different feel,
even the styles of Badniks
differ by zone, I will talk a
little more about that later in
the Zone Description Section.
Also the Zone order differs for
Sonic and Blaze, the zones will
be in Sonic's order but with a
note as to which Zone it is for
Blaze. And the Extra Zone...
I'll talk more about that later,
but all I am going to say is
someone definitely has a thing
for the classics...

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
Table of Contents:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

1. Story

2. Characters

3. Character Moves, Gimmicks,
   Tricks, Tension Gauge and
   Boosting
3.a. Moves and Gimmicks
3.b. Tricks
3.c. Tension Gauge and Boosting

4. Tension and Points List

5. Item Boxes

6. Map Area

7. Gameplay Tips and Sonic
   Newcomer Guide

8. Brief Zone
   Descriptions/Gameplay Tips
8.a. Zone Order Summary

9. Bosses
9.a. Leaf Storm 9.b. Water
Palace 9.c. Mirage Road 9.d.
Night Carnival 9.e. Huge Crisis
9.f. Altitude Limit 9.g. Dead
Line 9.h. Final Zone (F-Zone):
Unknown
8.i. Extra Zone: Exception

10. Special Stages
10.a. Special Stage 7
Tips/Walkthrough 10.b. Special
Gimmick Locations 10.b.1. Leaf
Storm Act 1 SGs 10.b.2. Leaf
Storm Act 2 SGs 10.b.3. Water
Palace Act 1 SGs 10.b.4. Water
Palace Act 2 SGs 10.b.5. Mirage
Road Act 1 SGs 10.b.6. Mirage
Road Act 2 SGs 10.b.7. Night
Carnival Act 1 SGs 10.b.8. Night
Carnival Act 2 SGs 10.b.9. Huge
Crisis Act 1 SGs 10.b.10. Huge
Crisis Act 2 SGs 10.b.11.
Altitude Limit Act 1 SGs
10.b.12. Altitude Limit Act 2
SGs 10.b.13. Dead Line Act 1 SGs
10.b.14. Dead Line Act 2 SGs

11. Ranking

12. S-ranking Miniguide
12.a. S-Ranking Acts
12.b. S-Ranking Bosses
12.c. A Perfect Game in One Go

13. Time Attack

14. Two Player Mode

15. Sound Test

16. Unlock Features

17. Spoilers

18. Nostalgia, again!

19. My Current High Scores

20. Questions?


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
1. Story (now from the booklet):
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

Dr. Eggman is up to his old
tricks again. And Sonic is right
there to stop him! "Hey Eggman!
What have you got planned this
time?" "Hah! Do you think I'm
going to tell you that?" After
an exchange of blows, Eggman
hastily retreats leaving behind
a mysterious Emerald, quite
unlike the Chaos Emeralds. As
Sonic goes to pick it up, it is
whisked from under his very
nose. "And that's the second
one..." Mutters the unfamiliar
figure of a lady, before quickly
vanishing. "What was THAT
about?" Muses Sonic, as he takes
off again on another exciting
adventure.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
2. Characters (from the
   booklet):
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

Sonic the Hedgehog: Foot loose
and fancy free, his only gripe
is with evildoers. He's
sometimes quick to anger, but
will always lend a helping hand
when somebody's in trouble.
There's no stopping the world's
fastest supersonic hedgehog!

Blaze the Cat: As guardian of
the Sol Emeralds, she's
currently hot on the trail of
Dr. Eggman who's made off with
them. Blaze is normally calm and
level-headed, but may be
concealing her real feelings.
Devoted to her position, she
sometimes gets bogged down by
her own strict discipline, which
may explain why she seems a
little withdrawn.

Dr. Eggman: An arrogant self-
professed evil scientific
genius, with a passion for
robotics, and dreams of
enslaving the world in his own
Eggman-land utopia. His schemes
are invariably foiled by Sonic,
but he's never let that detail
stop him!

Eggman-Nega: His speech and
manner is eerily polite for such
a cold and calculating
individual. On the surface he
resembles Eggman, but on the
inside?

Miles "Tails" Prower: A gentle
fox with two tails, he adores
Sonic and follows him around
like a kid brother. In this
game, Tails will support Sonic.

Cream the Rabbit: A rabbit who
takes her friend Cheese wherever
she goes. She is polite and
hardworking. She can also fly by
flapping her ears. She meets
Blaze and becomes friends,
supporting her in this game.

Amy Rose: She calls herself
Sonic's girlfriend, and chases
him wherever he goes. She is
cheerful and energetic, strong-
willed and very active.

Knuckles the Echidna: A powerful
and spectacular echidna, he is
always ready for a fight. Being
so straight forward and earnest,
he is easily fooled.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
3. Character Moves, Gimmicks,
   Tricks, Tension Gauge and
   Boosting:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
Thankfully this section will be
a lot shorter than in the Sonic
Advance 3 guide. The two
playable characters are Sonic
and Blaze of course, Blaze
unlocked by beating the first
boss with Sonic. Compared to the
Advance series, Boost Mode and
R-button tricks are the same,
basic moves have been reduced,
and now there are new tricks,
the Tension Gauge, and
Super/Fire Boost. Sonic and
Blaze only have a few minor
differences in moves and the
same button combinations, so I'm
doing Moves in one section with
Sonic and Blaze specific stuff
clearly labeled.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 3.a.
Moves and Gimmicks:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Press
and hold right or left: Run
right or left, keep pressed and
you will gain speed. After a
while you will go into Boost
Mode, when you go into Boost
Mode, you will have a burst of
wind with Sonic or fire with
Blaze and after images appear,
Boost Mode is discussed later in
the Tension and Boosting
Section.

Press down: Pressing down while
standing still will cause you to
crouch down, useful in dodging
some attacks. If you crouch down
long enough and you are on the
bottom screen, the view will
eventually change and you can
see what is below you. Pressing
down while moving will start you
spinning, useful for attacking
enemies. Blaze's top-like spin
is much slower and lasts a much
shorter period of time than
Sonic's spin.

Press up: Pressing up while
standing still will cause the
character to look up, eventually
the screen view will change so
you can see what's above you if
you happen to be on the top
screen.

A or B button:
Spin(Sonic)/Axel(Blaze) Jump,
use to jump or to attack an
enemy. Sonic spins into a ball
while Blaze turns into a fiery
top. Blaze can jump higher and
further than Sonic.

Press and hold down + A or B
button then release: Spin
(Sonic)/Burst (Blaze) Dash, used
for attacking enemies or to
instantly increase speed for
getting up slopes, if you press
the A button once and then
release both buttons, you will
get the most powerful Spin, if
you keep holding down then
release the A button, the
character will eventually rev
down a little and then releasing
down will result in a less
powerful Spin. Sonic's Spin Dash
is faster and lasts longer than
Blaze's Burst Dash.

A button, then R button: Jump
Dash and Homing Attack
(Sonic)/Burst Hover (Blaze),
both moves are good for moving
to the right or left in a sudden
burst. Sonic's Jump Dash is fast
and short, Blaze's Burst Hover
is slower, lasts longer and she
can glide for 3 seconds and even
change direction from right to
left in the air. If you are
close enough to an enemy with
Sonic and press R even in mid-
air Sonic will use Homing Attack
and head right toward the enemy
and attack it, but Blaze can't
with Burst Hover.

Extra Zone Specific Moves: I'll
discuss this in the Extra Zone
section to help prevent
spoilers.


Gimmicks: Devices throughout the
acts that propel you forward
someway, these were sort of in
Sonic Advance series also but
not named. Some gimmicks have to
be operated a certain way and
sometimes hints in the form of a
little symbol telling you what
button to push pop up, these
little hints sometimes pop up in
the Boss Battles also. In
Sonic's acts you can also find
Special Gimmicks (also called
Special Generators), a round
device with a star on it and two
handles which you can use to get
into the Special Stages, but I
will discuss that more later.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 3.b.
Tricks: ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
These are special mid-air
maneuvers using the A, B and R
button, pretty much an extension
of the tricks from the Sonic
Advance series but more useful
and there are a lot more of
them. There are several kinds of
tricks that can be preformed in
certain situations, usually
after jumping off a spring or on
a rail, etc... Tricks generally
give you extra points (maximum
of 20,000 per Act) and help fill
your Tension Gauge which I will
discuss in the next small
section, but tricks differ in
points/tension and sometimes
won't give one or the other. If
you use the same spring or other
trick object more than once, the
amount of points/tension you get
will normally go down until
eventually you will get none,
but there are a few exceptions
to this rule... so keep moving
through the act! If you do a
very nice combination of tricks,
various things such as confetti,
Small Animals, and applause
appear. The Tension section
coming up next explains what
Tension is, the Points and
Tension List Section of this
guide goes into detail as to how
much Tension different things
give you.

R button + Up Mid-air Trick: Hop
Jump(Sonic)/Axel Tornado(Blaze),
this trick gives you about 200
points but no gauge boost.
Similar to the same trick from
Sonic Advance 2 and 3, it can be
used after jumping off a spring,
being launched off a ramp or out
of a cannon, or after being
propelled through a boost hoop,
after certain Gimmicks
(discussed below) or in general
situations where you are in the
air after bouncing off some sort
of Gimmick or other level
object. Used to jump higher up,
most effective if used during
the highest point in your jump,
useful in reaching areas you
cannot normally get to. R button
tricks are also used during
Advanced Tricks described later.
The differences between Sonic's
Hop Jump and Blaze's Axel
Tornado are: Sonic: Doesn't go
very high and can't attack
enemies. Blaze: Much higher and
faster than Sonic's and can
attack enemies.

R button + Left or Right Mid-air
Trick: Same bonus and same
situation as the other R button
trick. Humming Top(Sonic)/Jump
Step(Blaze), this propels the
character sideways real fast,
good if you want to go more
sideways into an area, unlike in
the Advance games you don't need
to face the direction you want
to go. The differences between
Sonic's Humming Top and Blazes
Jump Step are: Sonic: Propels
Sonic very quickly to the side
and can attack enemies. Blaze:
Can't attack enemies.

R button Rail Trick: Points and
Tension. Just hit the R button
while grinding a rail, you can
only hit R a maximum of three
times in a row on most rails and
get up to 1100 points, then if
the rail is long enough if you
wait a couple seconds and press
R three times again you get 1700
points for each set of three
afterwards. Unlike most tricks
you can trick on the same rail
multiple times and get the same
points/tension.

A button Springboard Trick:
Points. Off the edge of a
springboard (I call these ramps
in my earlier guides). Same
concept as in Sonic Advance 2 or
3, but not only are you launched
forward but you also get Points.
You can follow this up with any
of the B button tricks described
below or an R trick.

A button end of Rail Trick:
Points and Tension. Off the end
of a rail, like Sonic and Amy
could do in the Advance series,
but this time you also get some
points and tension.

B button and Advanced Mid-air
Tricks: Points and Tension.
Press B a bunch of times to do
tricks on the way down during
the same situations you would
use an R button trick described
above or after a few other kinds
of tricks. Most places tension
and points go down if you trick
off the same place more than
once, but that is not true with
the cannon at least... It's best
you use this trick during the
entire span you are in the air
instead of simply at the highest
point down. If you want to get
fancier add in the A button and
R Button Tricks and try Advanced
tricks. In general A button is
pushed last, can only be pushed
after pushing B at least two
times and finishes off the trick
and is usually done near the
ground, you can only push A
again if you do an R button + up
trick right afterwards, if you
do a R + left/right trick you
can't trick anymore afterwards
at all... but you can only do
one R trick in the whole
sequence... here are a few
Advanced trick button
combinations, the Double
Advanced gives you the most
points and tension and works
best with Blaze, but slows you
down the most... it is best to
experiment yourself to find
combinations that give you good
amounts of points, but don't
slow you down too much when you
are trying to get an S-rank...
also remember there is a max
value to how many Trick Points
you can earn in an act, that is
purposeful because the game
designers don't want you to
S-rank everything by just doing
a whole lot of tricks... Also
remember adding the R button in
will mess up your trajectory, so
don't use in situations where if
you are off a little bit you
will die.

Advanced: B at least two times
than A

R button Assisted Advanced: R
button trick (either up or
right/left), B two or more
times, then A

Advanced and a Half: B at least
two times, then A, then R button
plus up, then B button till you
hit ground or B at least two
times, then A, then R button
plus left/right

Double Advanced: B at least two
times, than A, then up R button
trick, then B a least two times,
than A before you hit ground


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 3.c.
Tension Gauge and Boosting:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Master
Tension Gauge and Boosting if
you want to go fast and get
S-ranks!

Tension Gauge: The gauge on the
left hand side of either the top
or bottom screen is the Tension
Gauge. You get Tension by doing
Tricks, hitting a checkpoint,
hitting one of the Tension Item
Boxes or Defeating Enemies, you
lose Tension by using the
Super/Fire Boost, getting hit,
or dying. You start off a zone
or at a checkpoint with the
gauge 100% full, but it can go
up to 300%. All white bars means
you have zero tension, then it
fills up from bottom to top with
blue bars to 100%, between 100
and 200 it fills up with orange
bars, then past 200 to 300 red.
Look in the Tension and Points
List to find more specifically
what certain things give you
what amount of Tension.

Boost Mode: Tension not needed,
but can be activated by Tension.
When you are in Boost Mode, you
travel extra fast and you know
when you are in Boost Mode by a
sudden sheild-like affect
appearing and afterimages behind
the character. There are a few
ways to enter Boost Mode, the
easiest way is to tap X or Y if
you have a little Tension, this
will activate Super/Fire Boost,
a more powerful boost than this
described next for a split
second and that will activate
Boost Mode. You are also in
Boost Mode after using
Super/Fire Boost in general.
Another way is to run,
preferably downhill, if you run
long enough you will burst into
Boost Mode, the more Rings you
have, the sooner you will burst
into Boost Mode. You can also
achieve Boost Mode if a speed
booster propels you forward.
Boost Mode cannot harm enemies
like the Super/Fire Boost can,
discussed next.

Super (Sonic)/Fire Boost Mode:
Tension needed. On top of the
regular Boost Mode left over
from the Sonic Advance series,
there is a new more powerful
Boost. Anytime you have Tension,
you can use the Super(Sonic) or
Fire(Blaze) Boost where you gain
a lot of speed and can defeat
enemies, kind of like Boost Mode
but more extreme, but using this
reduces your Tension quite a
bit. When the gauge is at 300
percent, for 5 seconds the
character glows and the gauge
blinks and you can maintain your
Super/Fire Boost by gaining more
Tension... Here is the complex
part... if you do not activate
the Boost within 5 seconds of
the gauge/character starting to
blink, the tension gauge and
character stops glowing and you
will just be at 300 percent but
doing just one more trick will
make the character glow again
and you can keep it glowing by
getting more tension also. But
if you do use it but don't gain
more tension while using it,
then you will be only able to
use it for the remainder of the
5 seconds after gaining the
tension to keep it glowing and
after you used it the Tension
Gauge goes back down to 200
percent. But then again, if you
use this Boost and you continue
to defeat enemies and do Tricks
you can maintain the Boost until
5 seconds have gone by without
gaining more Tension, afterwards
the Tension Gauge going down to
200% of course. When you quit
pushing X or Y or run out of
Tension, you will be in regular
Boost Mode described above. This
type of boosting is helpful if
you want to travel fast, defeat
enemies, and even helps you push
heavy objects much faster. The
Tension Gauge is also important
if you want to get into the
Special Stage with Sonic because
to activate the Special Gimmick
fully you need at least 105%
Tension, I will discuss this in
more detail in the Special Stage
section.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
4. Tension and Points List:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ There
are many things in the acts that
earn you Tension, Points or both
or make you loose tension or
points. Remember that each bar
in the Tension Gauge is 5% and
this list for your convenience
gives bars and percentage and
Points don't show up till the
end of the act and for Tricks
the amount you get or loose is
the last number shown and they
seem to come in 1000 point
intervals and if do too few
Tricks you can get nothing.
Tricks are more complex, since
so many things affect the total
amount given and some trick
objects are infinite, but most
things give you a pretty
consistent amount of
Points/Tension. This is in the
form of a list (I tired a chart
but I had too many notes), with
specific level objects, hazards
and end of level bonuses, then
Tension and Points received,
then specific Notes about that
particular object/bonus.

In Bosses you don't have Tension
to worry about, and Points are
only earned by how much Time you
have left and how many Rings are
left.

I reordered the list and put
hazards at the end.

Tension Gain: Enemy (defeating):
Tension: 4 bars/20% for one
enemy defeated Points: none
Notes: Increasing Tension Bonus
for hitting more than one Enemy
in a short period of time, for
example you get 10 bars for
hitting two (4x2+2) and 22 for
hitting 3 (4x3+10), 45 for
hitting 4 (4x4+29) exc...

Checkpoint:
Tension: 10 bars/50%
Points: none

Tension Bonus Item Box:
Tension: 20 bars/100%
Points: none

Max Tension Bonus Item Box:
Tension: 60 bars/300% and
blinking. (completely full)
Points: none

Tension and Points Gain: R
button Rail Trick: Tension: 8
bars/40% for three in a row
Points: 1100 for three in a row
Notes: Three R presses on the
same rail gets you value above
and is most typical, the pattern
is: 1 press: 2 bars and 100
points 2 presses: 4 bars and 200
points 3 presses: 8 bars and
1100 points If the rail is long
enough and after a short period
of time you will be able to
press R again, you get a typical
bonus as follows: 1 press: 2
bars and 400 points 2 presses: 4
bars and 800 points 3 presses: 8
bars and 1700 points The more
time you delay pressing R, the
bonus goes down.

A button End of Rail Trick:
Tension: 4 bars/20% Points: 200
Notes: A/B and R button Mid-Air
Tricks can be done afterwards.


Points Gain: A button
Springboard Trick and Rainbow
Hoop: Tension: none Points: 400
Notes: A/B and R button Mid-Air
Tricks can be done afterwards.

R button Mid-air Trick: Tension:
none Points: 200 Notes: Can be
combined and part of B button
trick complex, see Tricks
section for more info. Pressing
R after other tricks will give
you even more Bonus points. You
can press R more than once from
same trick object without point
reduction.

B button Mid-Air Tricks:
Tension: 5 bars/25% for one
button press Points: 200 for one
button press Notes: 5 more bars
and 200 points bonus for each
press of B button afterwards off
single trick object, ending
number is the number you will
receive. Pressing R during the
sequence will increase number of
points significantly, pressing A
will do the same and give you
bonus Tension. Bonus received
also varies if you do not press
B/A and R very rapidly like for
the Rail Trick. Point and
Tension received reduced by half
for each time you reuse same
Trick object until finally after
reusing the same trick
object/Gimmick 8 times in a row
you fail to receive a bonus at
all. This rule does not apply
for the cannon.

Time Bonus: Points: Acts, 85000
Maximum down to 0 closer to 10
minutes, the time limit for
getting 85000 points varies by
Act. Bosses maximum is 45000 and
goes down in intervals of 1000
for every 2 seconds and like
Acts the bonus varies by time.

Trick Bonus: Points: Totaled
from Tricks, seems to be rounded
off to nearest 1000 with 1000
minimum amount recieved (of
course 0 is lowest) and 200000
maximum.

Ring Bonus: Points: 10 for each
Ring held when Goal is hit in
Acts. 100 in Extra Zone, 1000
for rest of Bosses.

Speed Bonus: Points: 10000
maximum (A couple people said it
depended on how fast you hit the
Goal Ring... not true... I
finally pretty much got down
what it is... but I still really
can't tell you how to guarantee
a certain amount) Points:
Determined by average running
speed in level including how
much of the time you spend going
forward in general, using
Super/Fire Boost is the fastest
way to travel so using it more
gives you a higher score and
also not staying in one place
for long periods of time.



Tension and Points Lost: Hit by
Enemy or other damaging
obstacle: Tension: -15 bars/-75%
Points: All Rings lost, -100
points for each Ring lost.
Notes: A Barrier(Shield) or
Magnetic Barrier will prevent
Ring and Tension loss one time.
Try to recover Rings before they
disappear after you loose them.
Rings are harder to recover the
more you are hit.

Dying: Tension: Set back to 20
bars/100% if start again at
Checkpoint Points: -1000 Speed
if start again at Checkpoint


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
5. Item Boxes:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ A couple
of new ones that are a little
different from earlier Sonic
games, so I thought I would list
them all out for anyone that
doesn't have the manual:

5 Rings

Random Rings (Ring symbol with
question mark): 1, 5, 10, 30 or
50 Rings.

Barrier (Green Bubble, also
known as a shield): Protects you
once from losing a life or
losing Rings/Tension when hit.

Magnet Barrier (Electric
Shield): Like Barrier but also
draws in nearby Rings.

Floating Item Box (Balloon):
Mystery item, can be any one of
the other items described here.

Invincible (muti-ray star
pattern): Become immune from
attacks that would cause loss of
Rings for a short period of
time. Cannot save you from being
crushed or running out of time.
For some reason can save you
from drowning in this game.

Tension Bonus (Up pointing
arrow): Increases Tension by
100%

Max Tension Bonus (Star
surrounded by a circle):
Completely fills your Tension
Gauge

1 up: One extra life.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
6. Map Area:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ You
first see the Map Area after
defeating the first boss. On the
top screen is a box with
Character name, the current Zone
you are on, current number of
lives, the amount that Blaze's
World has combined with Sonic's
World, and the number of either
Chaos or Sol Emeralds you have.
Blaze gets a Sol Emerald the
first time she defeats a boss,
while Sonic gets Chaos Emeralds
in Special Stages, which will be
discussed later. Also if your
guide is around, Tails for Sonic
and Cream for Blaze, they will
be in the right-hand side of
this screen. The bottom screen
is the actual Map Area showing
New Zones or Event Places which
is where you meet other
characters who help to unfold
the story as you progress
through the game. The actual
order you visit the Zones
differs some between Sonic and
Blaze, and Blaze never makes it
to Tails' Workshop. Also
starting at the top of the
screen, the Map Area will become
more wavy and gloomy as more of
Blaze's World comes into
Sonic's.

Map Area Controls: Directional
Buttons or Stylus on Map Area:
Move the character to a
different Event or Zone. With
the Stylus you can simply touch
where you want to go.

X Button or Stylus Tap box with
X and Arrows: After pressing
this, you can now use the D-pad
or Stylus to pan the Map, press
B or tap the box with the B and
one arrow to get back.

Start Button: If you press the
Start Button on the Map Screen,
you will get the Pause Menu
where you can choose to return
to the Title Screen or Cancel
and return to the Map Area.

A button or Stylus Tap: Select
an Event or Zone. You can only
go to Events one time. When you
first come to a Zone, you can
only go to the first Act, but
after you have beaten Act 2 in
that Zone, a different screen
will show up, allowing you to
choose with up or down
directional buttons or the
stylus previous acts in that
Zone or the boss or with left or
right or touching the numbers on
the top of this menu choose an
Act or Boss from another Zone
you already have completed. This
comes in handy especially after
beating the Final Zone since you
do not have to navigate the Map
to get to any Zone, but since it
only gives Zone number, you need
to sort of remember the
differences between Sonic and
Blaze's Zone Order.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
7. Gameplay Tips and Sonic
   Newcomers Guide:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

For Sonic Newcomers: Many things
in this game are very familiar
to people who play a lot of
Sonic games both new and classic
and I didn't go over them
before, but now I will for those
that haven't played a Sonic game
up until now. Most of the
general info below can be
applied to almost any normal
Sonic game from Sonic 1 made all
the way back in 1991 to the
present.

Know your enemy: Dr. Eggman,
also called Dr. Ivo Robotnik, an
mad scientist with dreams of
taking over the world. Since the
first Sonic Game, he has been
trying to get his hands on the
powerful Chaos Emeralds. If
Eggman gets a hold of the Chaos
Emeralds and controls them
properly, he could take over the
world. The mad doctor traps
innocent small animals inside
robots often called Badniks to
try to stop Sonic from ruining
his plans. That is the reason
why small Animals pop out of his
robots when you destroy them.

Running and Spinning: Speed is
the focus of a Sonic game
usually, and often the faster
you run, the more points you
earn. Read the moves section to
find out the fine art of
spinningvarious ways. But be
careful! You are vulnerable to
Badniks when you run, so you
need to spin jump or spin in
general to kill them!

Basic In-Level Things: Some
basic things have been in a
basic Sonic level from day 1...
Springs: Bouncy things that send
you through the air, but not
spinning, so don't hit enemies.
Loops-de-loops: Sonic had always
been running through crazy loops
in the course... Spikes: Whether
they are just stationary or they
are going in and out of the
ground, ouch they hurt!

Rings: Mysterious, floating,
spinning gold colored Rings seem
to hang out everywhere in the
Sonic World. Collect 100 of them
and you earn an Extra Life and
they are worth points also. But
a Ring is more than a random
thing to collect. If you are hit
by a Badnik, spikes, boss or
something else that isn't
Instant Death (explained below),
then you loose all of the Rings
you are holding and Rings go
bouncing aroundeverywhere, but
at least you didn't die! Try to
pick up as many Rings again as
you can, because the dropped
Rings will start to fade away.
But if you are hit by one of
these objects and you have no
Rings, you will die!

Item Boxes: You will also find
tv monitors (in some games
bubbles and in this game also
balloons)you can smash. These
give you various things, the
most basic item box items are:

Rings: It's nice when you can
smash a monitor and get lots of
Rings at once instead of having
to collect a lot of single
Rings.

Shields (Barriers): These nice
bubbles protect you from losing
your Rings one time,but then you
loose your shield. Sometimes
shields do other things, like
attract Rings.

Invincibility: Stars or a
rainbow burst (depending on
game) protect you from
everything that would cause loss
of Rings or death without Rings
for a short period of time.
Remember, you can still die from
Instant Death things, explained
below.

Super Shoes: Not found in this
game, but in most games allow
you to run faster. Super Boost
replaces this in Sonic Rush.
Look in the game's Items section
to find out about Tension
related items in this particular
game.

Death: As explained in the Rings
sections, a Ring is the best way
to avoid loosing a life. If you
have extra lives, then you start
at either the beginning of the
level or If you touched a
Checkpoint you start there. If
you don't, Game Over! There are
certain things that will kill
you instantly no matter how many
Rings you have or even if you
have an Invincibility item, they
are: Bottomless pits, fall into
the nothingness at the bottom of
the screen and you are dead.
Crushing: The pressure of being
pressed against two objects is
just too much... Drowning: Sonic
can only live 30 seconds
underwater and he can't swim!
(This game specific, Blaze lasts
45 seconds). A countdown begins
from 5 when you are close to
drowning, either get out of the
water, or find rising air
bubbles from the ground and
breathe one in.

Special Stage and Chaos
Emeralds: The most mysterious
objects of them all, in most
games you can enter the Special
Stage to try to earn them (see
Special Stage section for this
game). Chaos Emeralds have
mysterious powers... not much is
known about them, but often
something very special happens
when Sonic has all 7... If you
do not collect all of the Chaos
Emeralds and you beat the game,
you get a message to go and
collect them all and what turns
out to be sometimes a not-so-
good ending to the game.


General Tips:

Typical Sonic games stuff such
as Crushing and Drowning are
instant death, keep at least one
ring because if you don't have
one ring you will loose a life,
100 Rings=one extra life, to
prevent drowning breath in air
bubbles, don't step on spiky
things, etc...

R button Tricks especially in
Night Carnival are a good thing
to master if you have not
already in Sonic Advance 2 and
3... but don't get too carried
away...

Learn how to do Tricks and use
your Boost, but actually you can
beat this game without them if
you want to.

Don't go too fast, this game has
quite a few horrible holes and
other nasty things you can get
into, especially if you use the
R button too much... but once
you learn this game really well
you can speed right through it.

Silly Easter Egg: Told to me by
Michael, poke the characters and
small animals when they are
standing still on the bottom
screen with the stylus...


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
8. Brief Zone
   Descriptions/Gameplay Tips:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Each
Zone in Sonic Rush has different
characteristics and even are in
a different order for Sonic and
Blaze. The Zones are listed in
the order they appear for Sonic,
but what Zone it is for Blaze is
the first item listed. Next is a
Scene Description which
describes the setting of the
Zone and what previous Sonic
Game zones to compare it to.
Following that is Enemy/Small
Animal type. The three types of
Enemy are Heroes, the newer
Eggman robots from Sonic Heroes
and the most common enemy,
Advance, there is one random
Badnik from Sonic Advance 3 in
Altitude Limit (Night Carnival
confused me, those bats are
Heroes style if you look
closely), and GUN, which are
robots made by the Human
military which appear in Huge
Crisis. Small Animals are just
what kind of animals pop out of
the Eggman robots in each Zone,
most are from the Sonic Advance
series. Then it is on to
Gameplay Style, describing if it
is fast, or has a lot of rails,
or puzzle elements, dangerous
spots, battle rooms, etc...
Finally is Boss Description,
very brief, I have a separate
Boss Tips section later on.
There is also a very brief
description of the Final and
Extra Zone.

Note: These are notes about
getting through the Acts in
general... if you want more
specific notes on getting
S-ranks or Time Trials, refer to
those specific sections later in
the guide.


Leaf Storm Zone: Order: Sonic
Zone 1, Blaze Zone 2 Scene
Description: Classic Green Hill-
like Zone. Contains lush green
vegetation, cute Flickies and
their nests, grass covered
runways, and a tropical forest
background. Many of the Gimmicks
are from the Sonic Advance
series Green Hill-like Zones.
Compare to Green Hill Sonic 1,
Neo Green Hill Sonic Advance,
Leaf Forest Sonic Advance 2,
Sunset Hill Sonic Advance 3 and
other Green Hill-like Zones.
Enemy Style: Heroes Small
Animals: Parrot, Gorilla, Lion
Gameplay Style: A Fast Zone and
the easiest. Easy to keep your
Tension Gauge up and there are a
lot of fun Gimmicks and a few
rails. Near the end of Act 2 is
a giant rolling thing with
Eggman's symbol on the side,
just keep running down the
slope, Boost Mode and Super/Fire
Boost are your friends, you can
just outrun it in Boost Mode. A
couple of horrible holes of
death, but generally you won't
encounter them. Boss Style:
Updated Egg Viper from Sonic
Adventure.

Water Palace Zone: Order: Sonic
Zone 2, Blaze Zone 4 Scene
Description: Well, the zone
title says it all... anyway, the
top of the acts are dryer than
the bottoms, so if you want to
avoid drowning in the water you
can stick more to the top. One
interesting difference between
Sonic and Blaze, Blaze can last
45 seconds underwater, but Sonic
only 30 seconds, you might want
to keep this in mind. Mostly
reminds me of Sea Palace form
Sonic Heroes and the design of
the level reminds me of the
classic Labyrinth Zone from
Sonic 1 and Aquatic Ruins in
Sonic 2 and of course Hydro City
in Sonic 3. Enemy Style: Heroes
Small Animals: Seal, Penguin,
Rabbit Gameplay Style:
Underwater platforming.
Especially in the second Act
there are horrible pits of death
you have to cross on shaky
platforms, and of course air
bubbles underwater are not very
plentiful, the tops of the act
are better, but in Act 2 you
cannot get out of crossing the
shaky platform gaps. Also look
out for the mine Gimmick, they
lift you up but explode when the
countdown ends, so use them to
get up higher, then use the R
button to do a dash out of the
way. The upper paths of both
Acts are completely free of
these mine gimmicks. It is best
to Boost into the large wooden
paddlewheel Gimmicks because if
you don't it is a while before
you drop out of the Gimmick, bad
if you don't have much air left.
Boss Style: Lock-ness Mecha

Mirage Road Zone: Order: Sonic
and Blaze Zone 3 Scene
Description: Egyptian. Compare
to the classic Sandopolis Zone
in Sonic and Knuckles or the
Egyptian-themed levels in Sonic
Adventure 2. Enemy Style: Heroes
Small Animals: Camel, Kangaroo,
Mole Gameplay Style: Slower-
paced. This zone has rooms that
trap you and you are forced to
defeat enemies in order to leave
including Egg Hammers that take
more than one hit, slowing this
zone down, but at least in these
rooms you can charge up Tension
Boost and keep attacking
invincible. Near the end of both
Acts, there is a section where
you are on this strange golden
platform and enemies and rocks
are falling on you. During this
section in the second Act you
can also move up and down on the
platform instead of just left
and right, so you can't spin-
dash. You cannot touch rocks at
all unless you use Tension Boost
or are Invincible and you can
see the rocks hanging before
they drop, in fact the best way
to do this part is to use your
Tension Boost to just zip
through the rocks and enemies.
Enemies drop out of nowhere but
you do see their shadows first.
Boss Style: Dung Beetle Mecha

Night Carnival Zone: Order:
Sonic Zone 4, Blaze Zone 1 Scene
Description: Carnival Style,
switch the name and you get the
classic Sonic 3's Carnival
Night. Other note-worthy
Carnival Zones to compare this
too are Sonic Heroes' Casino
Park and BINGO Highway, Sonic
2's Casino Night, Sonic
Advance's Casino Paradise and
Sonic Advance 3's Toy Kingdom.
Enemy Style: Heroes (They are a
little Advance-like) Small
Animals: Elephant, Parrot, Tiger
Gameplay Style: Platforming,
slight puzzle. There are a few
switches you need to press to
activate stuff, but they are not
really hard to find. Also this
zone actually requires you to
use R tricks to get to the end
of the level if you end up going
certain ways. Also in both acts
you are chased by a big rolling
thing like in Leaf Storm, run
and use your Tension, especially
with slower Blaze or it is
instant death! There are several
large pits of doom you need to
look out for. Boss Style: Merry-
go-round like.

Huge Crisis Zone: Order: Sonic
Zone 5, Blaze Zone 6 Scene
Description: Military Ships.
Apparently GUN is interested in
what is going on too, they are
not really in the story but they
sure make their presence known
in this zone. It actually
resembles an Eggman base zone,
like Sonic Advance's Egg Rocket
and Sonic Advance 3's Secret
Base. Enemy Style: GUN Small
Animals: None Gameplay Style:
Platforming/Obstacles/Enemy
Battle. There are a lot of
sections in this zone where you
are trapped in rooms and you
have to defeat all of the
enemies to leave. Also watch out
for crushing traps and toward
the end of Act 2 a couple of
serious pits of death, but other
than that not a zone you will
probably be hung up on for long.
Boss Style: Same Egg Viper Boss
from Leaf Storm with different
attacks.

Altitude Limit Zone: Order:
Sonic Zone 6, Blaze Zone 5 Scene
Description: Sky Level. Compare
to the old Sonic 2
Megadrive/Gamegear Sky High Zone
or to newer zones such as Sonic
Advance 2's Sky Canyon, Sonic
Adventure's Windy Valley, Sonic
Adventure 2's Sky Canyon or
Sonic Heroes Rail Canyon. Enemy
Style: Advance/Heroes Small
Animals: Swallow, Parrot,
Peacock Gameplay Style:
Rails/Tricks. Since you are way
up in the sky, of course there
are a lot of big holes of death,
many for some reason gapped by
unnecessary purple lasers. The
parachutes can be a little
confusing since you have to duck
enemies, but really not that bad
after you figure out where you
need to land. The rocket
platforms also just need getting
used to. Both acts have a hang
glider section, very easy to
control and all you have to do
is follow where the rings are to
avoid enemies, even if you get
hit you still don't fall off the
hang glider, so don't worry. At
the beginning of Act 2 is a
large rail part where the rails
have spikes you need to jump
over and you need to quickly
jump rails, use Tension Boost to
even plow through spikes, but
you risk going too fast and
missing getting on the next
rail, but after you know where
to jump this is an excellent way
to get past this part. Boss
Style: Bird-style, reminds me of
Egg Albatross from Sonic Heroes.

Dead Line Zone: Order: Sonic and
Blaze Zone 7 Scene Description:
Eggman Ship. A very typical
Eggman spaceship zone with
reversed gravity and everything.
The first one was Sonic and
Knuckle's Death Egg, and many
more examples can be named but
most like Sonic Advance 2's Egg
Utopia. Enemy Style: Heroes
Small Animals: Monkey, Koala,
Skunk Gameplay Style: Fast.
Probably the most annoying
Gimmick in the game, the Giant
Rockets are weird to control. If
you press no buttons it goes
straight, fine for most
situations and will get you past
the huge pit of death at the
beginning of Act 2. If the
rocket is facing to the right,
then pressing the up and down
buttons carefully to steer it in
the direction you want to go,
but if the rocket is facing left
the controls are reversed. Once
you get a hang of controlling
them the rockets are not that
bad. Boss Style: Sonic Vs. Blaze

Final Zone (F-Zone): Unknown
Scene Description: Falling Ship
Boss Battle and standard giant
Eggman bot. Think of the Final
Boss of Sonic and Knuckles sort
of and also Final of Sonic
Advance 2.

Extra Zone: Exception Scene
Description: Sonic Advance 2
even more Doomsday-like... *even
more severe spoiling* More
specifically it's an updated
version of Sonic Advance 2's
Extra Zone with a very similar
mecha defeated mostly a very
similar way... with some Sonic
Advance 3 Extra and a Doomsday
Zone from Sonic and Knuckles-
like meteor beginning... but
with a Sonic Adventure 2 Final
Hazard-like twist...


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
8.a. Zone Order Summary:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

Sonic:
Zone 1: Leaf Storm
Zone 2: Water Palace
Zone 3: Mirage Road
Zone 4: Night Carnival
Zone 5: Huge Crisis
Zone 6: Altitude Limit
Zone 7: Dead Line
Final Zone (F-Zone): Unknown

Blaze:
Zone 1: Night Carnival
Zone 2: Leaf Storm
Zone 3: Mirage Road
Zone 4: Water Palace
Zone 5: Altitude Limit
Zone 6: Huge Crisis
Zone 7: Dead Line
Final Zone (F-Zone): Unknown


Extra Zone: Exception



~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
9. Bosses:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
Bosses in Sonic Rush are all 3D
in some form or the other.
Sometimes you still can only
move in two directions but the
boss is animated in 3D, other
times you can move in a circle
around it. In all Bosses except
the Extra Zone the actual boss
battle is on the top screen, and
the bottom screen shows the
number of hits left to defeat
the boss and if your guide is
around your guide will cheer you
on. Also during a Boss battle,
there is not Tension Gauge or
Gimmicks, so all of your
Boosting and Tricks are gone. In
general the bosses start out
with a couple of attacks that
are easy to dodge, but later on
pull out tougher attacks and the
earlier types of attacks get
faster or might change a little.
Also not all bosses are attacked
directly, often you have to do
something first just to reach
the boss or you have to attack
the boss either using or
shooting back something it
attacked you with. The Boss
Descriptions start off with how
the boss looks and the basic way
to beat it, then describes how
the boss behaves, then if the
boss changes say when there are
6 hits left the next section
will describe the changes, so
you will see sections like "8-7
Hits" then "7-5 Hits" etc...

Tips: When Eggman or Eggman Nega
say "Take this!" or "He he!"
there isn't an instant death
risk, but if he says "Get ready
to be schooled!" you are usually
in for an attack that most
likely kills you instantly or at
least can kill you instantly if
it hits just right. During some
bosses, a little hint comes up
telling you what buttons you
should be pushing, this is very
helpful, make sure to follow
them! Try to keep Rings floating
around the field because the
more you are hit, the more Rings
scatter when you lose them and
they are harder to pick up.


NOTES:

Even though each boss has a
variety of different attacks and
all of them except the Extra
Boss are pretty random in what
attack will come next, Eggman or
Eggman-Nega will say something
different and the boss will act
differently before the attack,
so in these sections I will say
something like "When Eggman says
"Take This" and the boss lifts
it's head..." and then tell you
exactly what the attack does and
info such as if that attack is
lethal even with Rings, or if
you will have a chance to hit
the boss after the attack,
etc...

I didn't discuss some important
Boss differences here when it
comes to S- ranking them, that
is all under the Ranking Section
in the S-rank miniguide, I
didn't want to bog down people
that just want basic boss info
with more advanced
information...

For the most part, Sonic and
Blaze's bosses are the same,
except Sonic usually finds
himself attacking Eggman Nega in
the pursuit of just finding out
who he is, and Blaze is fighting
Eggman to get back the Sol
Emeralds and gets a Sol Emerald
when she first beats a boss. The
bosses are a different color too
for Sonic and Blaze. But the
Zone 7 and Extra Bosses are a
little different so that will be
discussed in those specific
sections.

These are notes about getting
through the Bosses in general...
if you want more specific notes
on getting S-ranks or Time
Trials, refer to those specific
sections later in the guide.

If the sections are a little off
as to where a certain attack
begins, it is because the bosses
are random and it can be a
little hard to judge exactly
when a certain attack begins. If
a boss attacks you with an
attack and I say it happens
later, e-mail me and I will
correct my error. A FINAL
REMINDER: These following
descriptions are for Normal
Mode, Easy Mode is two less
hits, and these following
descriptions will not match up,
but it will be the same attacks.
The total amount of hits
required to defeat the boss is 8
on Normal and 6 on Easy for
Bosses 1-Final, and 12 on Normal
and 10 on Easy for Extra.

NEW FEATURE: Overall Strategies
included for each Boss! More
helpful tips!


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.a.
Leaf Rush Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ A Boss
that is similar to the Egg Viper
in Sonic Adventure 1, it is
mostly fought in an area where
you move side to side, but for
one attack it moves to the side
of the platform and the camera
angle changes and you have to
move up and down. In general you
hit this boss when it slams it's
head on the ground and the top
of its head starts to blink.

Overall Strategy: It's pretty
easy to see what attack he is
going to do next, it's easier if
you stay in the center of the
stage.

8-6 Hits Left: When Eggman says
"Take This!" and the head flips
back: Chance to hit Boss! The
head will try to slam down on
top of you. It is easy to jump
or run out of the way, it
landing on top of you is a hit
of course. When the head is on
the ground and the cockpit is
blinking, just simply jump on it
to hit the boss.

When Eggman says "Get Ready to
Be Schooled!" and the head flips
way back: Always Lethal if you
get hit! Chance to hit Boss!
This is a much more powerful
version of the above attack,
avoided the same way or you can
spin-dash, but this time of
course the head instantly kills
you if you get hit, but
thankfully when the boss first
tips it's head back, it doesn't
try to follow you anymore and
it's easy to stand out of the
way. Hit the boss the same way
described above.

5-1 Hits Left: Same as above but
one new attack:

When the Boss moves to the side
of the platform: Lethal if you
are not careful! Part of the
head comes off, the camera angle
changes, and the head becomes a
rolling object toward you. Jump
and press up to get over it.
This object may roll at you 1-4
times in a row, so be prepared
to turn around and jump back
over it! If you touch it, it
can't hurt you at all, but it
can push you right off the edge
of the platform and kill you!
Also be careful, it is possible
to also kill yourself by just
jumping off the edge of the
platform during this attack. You
can't hit the boss when it is
doing this.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.b.
Water Palace Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ This
Lock Ness Monster-like Boss is
in general defeated in the same
way as the last boss, you attack
the top of its head when it is
blinking. But unlike the last
boss, you are running around a
circular track making it more
3D.

Overall Strategy: After each
hit, wait a couple of seconds
with the boss on the other side
of stage, but you need to be
slightly closer to the boss's
tail than head. If the boss goes
really fast and heads to the
center, it's the first head-
smashing attack listed below,
you should stand where you are
and then follow the instructions
below. If the boss turns around
then slowly comes at you, it's
going to belly slam you and you
need to start running the
opposite direction, then follow
the instructions for that attack
below If the water drains,
follow the instructions for the
last attack below.

8-6 Hits Left:

When the Boss is in the middle,
the head comes back and Eggman
says "Take This!": Chance to hit
Boss! Same general concept as
the head-smashing attack for the
Leaf Storm Boss, but this time
it is underwater so your jump is
slower.

When the Boss is near you and
suddenly rises in the air and
Eggman says "Take This!": This
is a belly slam attack, he first
often comes down real low and
tries to hit you even before he
does the belly slam, I have new
advice here, run away! Then when
the boss lifts up to belly slam
you, spin-dash under him to
avoid this attack. You can't hit
the boss.

5-1 Hits Left: Same as above,
boss might get a little faster
but not very much, one new
attack:

When the water drains out of the
area: Chance to hit Boss! This
is a two part attack. For the
first part, the head is coming
slowly at you with mouth open
and you are forced to go toward
its tail, which happens to be a
propeller that damages you if
you touch it. Then it will
suddenly charge at you and
Eggman will say "Get Ready to Be
Schooled!", it's kind of hard to
escape this attack without being
hit but basically you stand
close to the propeller without
being hit by it and you might
not get hit by the mouth, then
it's mouth closes and the head
retreats and the top of it
blinks, you can hit it before it
retreats right after it's mouth
closes, or you can then chase it
down, jump and hit it. Then the
water will return. (Even though
this is a "Get Ready to be
Schooled" attack... it's never
outright killed me... yet... who
knows... Also, it's the one that
costs you the S-rank the most,
because when you get hit, some
of your Rings end up under it's
body and it doesn't move for a
while, so you can't pick them
back up.)


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.c.
Mirage Road Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ This
Dung Beetle Boss is more complex
than the last two Bosses I have
described. Mostly it is rolling
a funny ball around a circular
path. This ball changes,
sometimes it is covered in
spikes, sometimes smooth and
blinking. When it is spiky, do
not touch, but when the ball is
blinking you can hit it. But
this is the tricky part, you
need to get to ball to hit the
back of the bug to get a hit on
the boss... there is only one
attack it does where you have
the chance it hit it and that is
described below of course.

Overall Strategy: Keep running
away from the boss, when he
releases the ball at first you
need to wait for the beetle to
turn around first, later on he
turns around so fast you don't
have to wait. Also when he is
throwing bombs run away from
them.

8-6 Hits Left: When Eggman says
"He he!" and the bug is simply
rolling the ball around:Just run
from it, if you get close to it,
it will turn around and just
simply start to chase you the
other direction. When the ball
is blinking and you hit it, you
can make the boss stop in its
tracks, but that is about it,
can't hit it.

When Eggman says "He he!" and
the bug releases the ball and it
comes toward you: Chance to hit
Boss! The bug will release the
ball, then eventually turn
around to catch it again. If you
just jump over the ball or you
hit it wrong, then the bug will
just simply catch the ball and
nothing will happen. To
correctly hit the ball at the
back of the bug, you need to
first be running from the bug,
then when it releases the ball
still run a little in the
direction you were coming from.
Now watch when the bug turns
around and faces the opposite
direction, you want to hit the
ball where there is no spikes so
it is now rolling toward the
bug's behind, basically don't
jump over the ball after the bug
releases it and hit it and it
will end up going in the correct
direction. Don't hit the ball at
the bug too soon, you need to
give it a chance to turn around
first.

5-1 Hits Left: Same as above but
the boss/ball gets faster and
the ball changes from smooth to
spiky more quickly. But
thankfully the bug turns around
much faster, meaning you can hit
it sooner after the bug releases
the ball. Toward the end it gets
even quicker.

When you hit the ball toward the
boss, sometimes the boss will
jump over the ball, just simply
hit the ball again, don't jump
over the ball first, the ball
will not turn spiky on you, and
the ball will then hit the boss.

When Eggman Says "Get Ready to
be Schooled" and flies to the
center: The bug throws spiky
balls at you. Two forms of this
attack: Balls land behind you:
Keep running as fast as you can
Balls land in front of you: Keep
running and jump over spiky
balls when they are about to hit
the ground. Sometimes the bug
will alternate in one turn
throwing them behind, in front
and almost directly at you, just
duck like described above.
(Another "Get Ready to be
Schooled" attack that hasn't
instantly killed me, but it's
still a pretty good general
pattern to follow...)


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.d.
Night Carnival Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ This is
another boss you fight by going
around a circular platform. In
the middle the boss machine has
two arms that spin around. One
is where Eggman or Eggman Nega
is sitting and is normally high
up and the other one is a ball
that is sometimes electrified
and sometimes shoots out energy
balls from the bottom. You need
to either bring Eggman down to
your level and hit him or go up
to his... described below:

Overall Strategy: A lot is
happening in this boss! I find
it easiest to start off running
to the right and grabbing the
high rings. When the ball goes
non-electrified, then run back
the other way and hit it. After
hitting the boss, the little
vehicle comes out. Stand there a
few seconds waiting for the ball
to pass by you, then jump on the
little vehicle to spring up to
the boss. After a hit, just
stand there and almost every
single time the ball is smooth
before it gets to you. Other
than that, you have to watch
very carefully for junk like the
boss suddenly slamming the ball
down or making the ball swing
very low, these are the only
interruptions to the boss hit
pattern above.

8-6 Hits Left: Boss is spinning
around: Chance to hit boss! The
ball and Eggman are spinning
around. Watch out, sometimes the
ball is electrified and
sometimes it shoots out energy
balls downwards you just have to
avoid. The ball flashes red
before it becomes electrified to
warn you. To first hit him, you
need to jump at the ball when it
is not electrified and hit it.
This does two things, it causes
Eggman's part to drop down,
allowing you to hit him, and it
causes a little purple or green
vehicle thing to appear on the
ground below that will just
drive around and try to hit you.
This little vehicle thing if you
jump on it is springy, you will
be bounced way up in the air.
You can use it if you time it
just right to hit Eggman while
he is up high (What you should
do, wait for the ball passes you
first, so you don't hit it when
you go to hit Eggman), hit the
ball when it is not electrified
and bring Eggman down to your
level, or avoid the next attack
I will describe in the next
section later on. If you hit
Eggman while he is still high,
sadly another little vehicle
doesn't appear, so you have to
wait to hit the ball again to
bring him back down.

Ball Swings Low: This attack
seems to happen more often later
on, but I have also seen it
happen early, which is why I
updated this part. The ball will
swing very low to the ground,
you need to press down in order
to duck. Be careful, if he
starts this attack and the ball
is not electrified, the ball
will become electrified witout
warning.

5-3 Hits Left: The ball stays
electrified longer and the boss
moves around faster.

When Eggman says "Get Ready to
be Schooled!" and the ball drops
down: Can be Instantly Lethal!
The ball slams into the ground
and sends two shock waves out.
Just jump over the shockwaves.
You can also jump on the
vehicle, then as Blaze use her
hover to stay above the
shockwaves. Not a chance to hit
the boss. Kills instantly if the
ball drops directly on you.

2-1 Hits Left: Same as above,
but the boss is even faster, and
the ball is almost always
electrified, there is only a
brief period of time when the
ball is not electrified and it's
blinking red, the little vehicle
is the easiest way to hit the
boss at this point, but be sure
you time it just right so you
don't hit the ball on the way up
and you hit Eggman, you might in
the air want to move to the
right a little.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.e.
Huge Crisis Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
Seriously, this is the same Boss
as Leaf Storm, but a different
color and these attack
differences:

Overall Strategy: Don't stay at
the very edges of the platform,
or you might be trapped by the
head-slamming triple attack.

8-6 Hits Left: When the boss
slams its head down after Eggman
says "Take this!", he will slam
it down one or three times, you
just need to watch a little
longer before you attack, but
not too long of course.

The "Get Ready to be Schooled"
attack is a little faster, and
even with it's head all the way
thrown back it still follows you
around trying to target you
better.

The moving to the side of the
platform attack is gone.


5-1 Hits Left:

The boss twists around and moves
into the background: Eggman will
put the head down and say "He
he!" and missiles will fire from
it toward you. It is really easy
to avoid them if you just look
to see where they are going to
hit. The pattern they hit and
the speed they come at you can
differ, there are four patterns:
Slow and coming directly at you:
Easy to walk away from, go back
and fourth on the platform, but
don't go too fast Slow and
random: Stand mostly in one
spot, only moving if one is
coming directly at you. Fast and
directly at you: Run pretty fast
back and fourth across the
platform. Fast and random:
Hardest to avoid, but if you
stand in one spot you will see
most of them are not coming at
you, only move if one is and
then watch where you move to. No
chance to hit the boss.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.f.
Altitude Limit Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ This
bird-like boss is hit like the
Egg Viper-like and Nessie-like
bosses on the top of the head
when it is blinking, but attacks
are quite different. Like the
Egg Viper-like boss it is on a
2Dish platform:

Overall Strategy: When the bird
is about to attack, start off by
spin-dashing back and fourth as
if you were avoiding the bullet
attack, messes up the bosses'
aim a little with this attack.

8-6 Hits Left:

Boss is in the background and
Eggman says "He he!": The boss
shoots at you from both of its
wings. Try running back and
forth quickly so the wings don't
dip down. It's still pretty easy
to get hit by the bullets, you
can also try jumping through the
bullets and it will be less
likely you will get hit, but
only do this if you are
desperate. I also find it
effective to spin-dash back and
forth, especially with Sonic. No
chance to hit the boss.

Boss lands on edge of platform,
then jumps up: Chance to hit
boss! The boss will jump up in
the air, Eggman says "Take
this!" and it will try to stomp
on you. Just run or jump a
little out of the way but not
too much, the boss will then bow
it's head and you will have a
chance to hit it. Also you can
just walk away from the boss
then turn around when he hits
the ground, this in fact may be
better than method above.

Boss is in background, but then
swoops in suddenly and Eggman
says "Take this!": Chance to hit
boss! This is a peck attack,
make sure you are not too close
to the boss when it's beak hits
the ground, or you will be kind
of trapped there and after you
are hit stunned for a little
bit. After it hits the ground,
jump out of the way a little bit
to avoid being trapped there,
then top of the head starts to
blink and you can hit it.

5-1 Hits Left: Same as above,
but attacks are faster, one
added attack:

Boss lands on edge of platform
and Eggman says "Get Ready to be
Schooled!": Instantly lethal if
you are not careful! The boss
starts creating a lot of wind. A
symbol will appear in the bottom
corner telling you to press A
and B, if you don't press them
fast with the up button, you
will be blown off the edge of
the platform! Try to stay as
close to the boss as possible,
in fact you can touch the boss
and not loose your Rings. No
chance to hit the boss.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.g.
Dead Line Boss:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Sonic
vs. Blaze! Sonic and Blaze do
have slightly different attacks,
but their most powerful attack
is really different enough to
warrant a different strategy, so
that will be discussed when I
get to it. It is fought on a
2Dish platform.

Overall Strategy: Hit Sonic or
Blaze when they are just
standing there and not spin-
dashing or jumping, if you spin
or jump into them they cannot
hurt you most of the time. I
find it better to just jump into
them or run toward them a little
them press down instead of
trying to dash them or just
simply spin-jump them.

Because when to hit them is kind
of general, I didn't specify it
below. The best time to hit them
is right after they have
completed an attack and they are
just standing there. The last
hit is completely different and
will be discussed later.

Beneficial Glitch: Occasionally
Sonic or Blaze will get stuck on
the edge of the platform,
leaving them unable to attack
and you can easily hit them
repeatedly.

8-6 Hits Left: Character Revs
Up: You are about to be Dashed.
Just jump out of the way,
jumping into them while spinning
doesn't do anything but sends
you flying in the opposite
direction, but be prepared to
hit them when they stop
spinning.

Character floats up in air: They
are about to home in on you at
high speed, just jump so they
can't hurt you and be ready to
hit them quickly after they
land.

5-2 Hits Left: Same as above but
character stands there for a
shorter period of time and has
one more attack:

Character floats into air,
differently than attack above
(Sonic starts to spin around,
Blaze just floats there): The
character is about to do their
Special Attacks which are: Sonic
creates a Blue Tornado and tries
to suck you in. Basically, you
try to jump or run away from the
tornado. Sonic will do the
Tornado 1-4 times and after
doing one will very quickly
hover over you and try to form
another one right on top of you,
you just need to watch Sonic
very carefully and run away.

Blaze floats in mid-air and
summons flame pillars. If you
look on the ground a small
circle of fire appears before
the flame pillar and you can try
to run, but try not to get
backed up in a corner but if you
do if you look carefully there
will be a gap you can go into
sometimes... Both characters
might follow this attack up by
homing in on you or they will
just go back to the ground.

1 Hit Left: Always Lethal if
done wrong! Final hit! There is
a small cutscene, then the
battle totally changes. Now
Sonic and Blaze are running into
each other trying to push each
other off the platform. The A/B
button symbol appears, and it is
not kidding! You have to push
these buttons very fast to win!
The best way is to use both
hands and press both buttons at
the same time. You can tell you
are winning when the flashes of
light that appear are mostly
toward the other character and
if you look closely at the
background you can tell which
way the two of you are in
general heading. If the other
character is winning, better
start pressing those buttons
faster! The battle ends with
either your character or the
other gets sent flying off the
platform.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 9.h.
Final Zone (F-Zone) Boss:
Unknown ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
This typical giant robot took me
a little while to figure out
mainly because of how it is
hit... but the last hit is
ridiculously easy and is free
making this boss in reality have
one less hit than the others
before it. It is fought on a
2Dish platform. How to hit this
boss in general: The boss is
normally behind you, but to hit
it you need to make this boss
move to the right of the
platform. To make it move at
first you have to hit its hands
if they are blinking and on the
ground, you can do that after a
couple of its attacks or later
on in the fight the boss will
move there if you successfully
dodge it's laser or electric
attacks. After the boss is
there, Eggman will say "Get
ready to be schooled!" and it
will shoot out 3, 4 or 5 later
in the fight green energy
blasts, you need to jump over
them, it just gets harder to do
that later on. After the last
blast, the hand hits the ground
and starts blinking again, try
to jump toward the hand after
the last energy blast. Now the
word go appears on the screen,
you are suppose to run up the
robot's arm. Here is the tricky
part, eventually the arm starts
shaking and the down symbol
appears. Soon the robot will try
to shake you off its arm. What
you do is press down so your
character can hold on for dear
life. Then you proceed in moving
up its arm and hitting its head
which is blinking. If you are
thrown off it's arm, you will
have one more chance of getting
up there, but after that the arm
will come back down, but the
robot will shake you off so hard
you can't make it back up, the
robot does the same thing even
if you stay on it's arm the
first time, which means you
really need to hurry up and hit
it's head as fast as you can.
When 5 hits are left when the
game is set on Normal Mode metal
things start rolling down its
arm and they will hit you when
you press down. What you do is
make sure you get to the robot's
white elbow joint before
pressing down so the metal
things will not hit you but go
over you instead. You can also
jump and hit the metal things.

Deal with me... this is the boss
battle I have updated the most
in this guide, it's pretty
complex...

NOTE: Make sure to check out
important July 2006 updates to
the Laser and Electrical attacks
below.

NOTE: Important Easy Mode
Differences. Playing the game on
Easy Mode just cuts the numbers
of hits down by two for most
Bosses, but when you play Final
on Easy, there is a significant
difference. Now metal things
never roll down the robot's arm,
and 4-2 Hits Left, you have to
stop on the arm before it shakes
you off of it always. (I was
told it is possible, but IMO
hard)

8-7 Hits Left: Three green
energy blasts before you can hit
the boss, there is enough time
to hit the boss before it starts
to flail it's arm.

When the robot lifts up both of
it's arms and Eggman says "Take
this!": Chance to hit boss!: The
hands will come down one at a
time and produce shockwaves, you
just need to watch the hands and
duck them, then jump over the
shockwave. Eventually one hand
will stay down and start to
blink so you can hit it and move
the boss to the edge.

When the robot lifts up both of
it's arms, leans back and Eggman
says "Get ready to be
schooled!": Instantly Lethal
Attack! Chance to hit boss! This
is similar to the Egg Viper
attack, but the boss follows you
around more before attacking and
shockwaves come out after the
boss very powerfully hits the
ground with both of it's arms.
It is best to stand there,
preferably at the edge of the
platform, then move right before
it attacks, then jump up to both
avoid the shockwave and hit the
hands which after the attack are
both on the ground and blinking.

6 Hits Left: Same as above, but
there are 3 (sometimes 4) green
energy blasts before you can hit
the boss, and this time you
don't have enough time to
immediately hit the bosses'
head, you need to press down on
the arm so you are not thrown
off.

5-4 Hits Left: Same as above
plus first attack described
above gets faster and harder to
avoid. When it moves to the side
there are now 5 (occasionally 4)
green energy blasts you need to
jump over that come at you even
faster. Metal things start
rolling down it's arm , and you
actually have enough time to
make it to the head before being
shook off again (Normal Mode
only). Also this new attack:

Robot crosses it's arms and says
"Take This!": Possible chance to
hit boss. Laser attack, only the
fire on the ground can hurt you,
watch carefully and jump over
it. WAY TO MOSTLY DODGE THIS
ATTACK: Just go to the very edge
of the platform to where it
looks like he is going to fall
off and stand there. If the
laser is going away from you it
can't get you, but it can if it
is heading toward you, so you
still have to jump some. There
are two variations, both avoided
the same way: Random Laser:
Laser is fired in random
directions, run and jump from
one side of the platform to the
other as fast as you can and you
will miss them almost always,
the key is to start running and
jumping as soon as it indicates
it is about to do this attack.
(or see new tip above) Sweeping
Laser: The Laser sweeps back and
forth on the ground, it's easy
to just jump back and forth
across it. (or see new tip
above) Another thing if you have
extremely good timing is to just
stand there and jump over each
and every laser, but yeah, very
good timing, running seems to be
best. Another note, the final
laser might require more careful
jumping. The robot will move to
the edge of the platform on it's
own after this attack if you
don't get hit during this
attack, if you do get hit then
it will attack you with
something else afterwards.

3-2 Hits Left: Same as above,
you do have enough time to hit
the head but barely (Normal
Mode), if you do have to press
down to avoid being shaken off
do this in the robot's elbow,
one more attack:

The robot hits it's hands
together twice and Eggman says
"He he!": Possible chance to hit
boss. Electric Attack,
electrical arcs come out of
floating metal things. When the
electric arcs are transparent
you can walk through them, but
watch out when they are not
anymore! Comes in to forms: One
metal thing comes out: You are
trapped between two electric
arcs that move slowly. The space
between them changes size and
moves, you just need to be alert
and move with this space to
prevent getting hit. It gets
hung up a while on the edge of
the platform, so it is best to
start off there. More than one
metal things come out: Multi-
attack that is harder to avoid,
be very alert and move if you
are near a transparent arc but
not into a full one! The best
way is to start off near the
edge of the platform, then
slowly walk away, this seems to
be a good way of avoiding the
arcs, your pace needs to be
steady, not too fast, not too
slow. Another tip received from
someone... forgot their name:
Try to move under each metal
thing as soon as it comes out.
(Correction: Don't start off at
the very edge, or the attack
won't start at all, weird way to
stall the game, but that's it.)
The robot will move to the edge
of the platform on it's own
after this attack if you don't
get hit during this attack, if
you do get hit then it will
attack you with something else
afterwards.

1 Hit Left: Very Easy but Small
Instant Death Risk!!! (That I
never realized before) Last Boss
hit! The robot rams itself into
the side of the stage twice, but
this does nothing to you. Then
the robot gets stuck in the side
of the platform. It's easy to
jump up and hit the head, for
the first couple of seconds it
seems like this does nothing,
but keep jumping... but don't
wait too long or the robot will
break through and kill you.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
9.i. Extra Zone Boss: Exception
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Unlock
this boss by completing the game
with Sonic and Blaze and getting
all the Chaos Emeralds with
Sonic. It doesn't matter which
order you complete these things,
one these requirements have been
met go to the Character Select
screen and you will find an
option to head to the Extra
Zone. For people familiar with
the earlier games in the series,
this is Sonic Advance 2's Extra
Boss made even more like the
Doomsday Zone... Anyway this
boss is a little different in
that it is broken up into
sections, which are described
later and this boss is not
random, if you play it long
enough you will be able to
anticipate which attack comes
next. The scene is space, and
like the Sonic Advance Extra
Zones and the classic Doomsday
Zone from the game Sonic and
Knuckles you are flying through
space fighting an Eggman
invention, this one happens to
strongly resemble the Extra Zone
mecha at the end of Sonic
Advance 2. As in any other Super
fight, you start with 50 Rings,
but loose one ring a second. If
you run out of rings you die and
you need to remember in this
fight Sonic and Blaze are
sharing Rings so if you beat one
section with only one Ring left
the other character will be
suffering too. That is the only
way you can die, most attacks
just slow you down a bit and
make you blink, but there are a
few attacks in this particular
fight that can make you loose
rings. The good thing is you
don't always have to start from
the beginning, Sonic and Blaze
bring to the fight the number of
lives they each earned. If Sonic
dies you start at the beginning
of the section you just die in
and if Blaze dies you start with
Sonic again in the section
before. This is kind of annoying
because Sonic's part is much
harder and made more annoying by
the fact you have to battle the
boss as Super Sonic more than
Super(Burning?) Blaze. Super
Sonic and Super Blaze fight the
boss a little differently and
have slightly differing moves,
described below:

NOTE ON BLAZE'S SUPER NAME: I'm
not totally convinced yet, but
Super Blaze's real official name
might be Burning Blaze based
upon a Japanese strategy guide
and I have seen other names
proposed for her Sol Emerald
transformation, but it was a
similar guide that led people to
call Super Shadow Hyper Shadow
which is incorrect, so I an not
totally convinced yet. Seems
most people call her Burning
Blaze now...

Super Sonic: D pad: Move Super
Sonic in any direction on the
screen. D Pad + A or B button:
Dash Sonic in any direction.
This more powerful move is used
to dash through certain things
like lasers and breaking meteors
without being slowed down and
hitting things back at the boss.

Super(Burning) Blaze: Same as
Super Sonic, but the A button
instead of being like the B
button is a special attack where
Blaze charges up then fires a
fire ball. During the charging
process you can move a little
but not very fast. This attack
can only be cancelled if an
attack hits her, disrupting her
concentration. This is used to
hit the boss.

Super Sonic and Super Blaze take
turns battling the end mecha.
Sonic battles it on the top
screen against Eggman, then
after hitting it a certain
number of times, the mecha goes
into a base things, comes out
the bottom upside down and is
now driven by Eggman Nega and
Blaze has to battle it on the
bottom screen. The first Sonic
and the first Blaze section
start off in a meteor herd, but
then they have to battle the
boss, the next sections after
that don't start with meteors
and the battle technique never
changes, but the attacks that
the mecha gives off and the way
Super Sonic and Super Blaze
fight it are quite different.
The specific section order is
this:

Super Sonic, meteor beginning, 3
hits; Super Blaze, meteor
beginning, 3 hits; Super Sonic,
2 hits; Super Blaze 2 hits;
Super Sonic 4 hits (2 on Easy
Mode)

After the final hits with Sonic,
there is a short cutscene of
Sonic and Blaze finishing off
the mecha and hitting it one
last time together.


Here is the description of the
Meteor Section, followed by the
differences in the Sonic and
Blaze sections of this boss.
Like in the other boss sections,
I will indicate stuff like you
can hit the boss and if the
attack will cause you to loose
rings, remember the attacks are
not random and you will be able
to see the attack order better
the more you play:

Meteor Section: The meteors will
slow you down and so will the
laser that occasionally fires.
You can dash through the laser
and meteors to avoid slowing
down and try to grab the rings
scattered in the meteor field.
If you dash into red meteors you
will find 5 Rings inside.

Super Sonic Section: In general
you attack it by hitting the
objects that the boss fires at
you back at it at the boss's
head when it is blinking. The
bosses' attacks are:

Boss extends its right arm:
Chance to hit boss! These
strange white things with blue
centers are annoying, they sort
of circle around and sometimes
stop and fire lasers out that
hit and slow you down. These
things seem to move the more you
move Sonic around. Try not to
move much so they kind of circle
around. If you are lucky or if
you have practiced enough they
will stop in the perfect place
and you can dash into them and
hit the boss. They eventually
blink red before exploding. Last
time this attack appears, the
white things move around alot
faster, you may have to more
around more to get the white
things to stop in the correct
spot.

Boss extends its left arm:
Chance to hit boss! Green energy
balls come out and head right
for you, then toward the end of
the screen, they can slow you
down. Try to position yourself
in front of the robot's head, if
you are in the right place you
can dash then right into the
boss.

Boss suddenly twists around and
says "Take this!": Laser sword
attack, he swipes most of the
screen, pauses briefly and in
this pause you can hit him with
one of the white things, then he
swipes again. This just hits you
and slows you down. Dash through
it or go to the corner of the
screen.

Boss moves into background and
Eggman says "Get Ready to be
Schooled!": Ring Loss Risk! The
boss fires missiles at you. They
move toward the screen and
explode hard enough to make
Super Sonic loose 10 or 15
Rings. Just dash around the
screen away from them.


Super Blaze Section: In general
you charge up a fireball and hit
the boss when the cockpit is
glowing. It is pretty easy to
get the timing of hitting the
cockpit right, but Eggman Nega
in general has harsher attacks
and if you don't attack him
quickly you will end up loosing
Rings.

Cockpit stops blinking and the
boss is just sitting there: The
boss is about ready to do a
Scratch Attack that just hits
her and slows her down, just
dash toward the edge of the
screen.

Weird noise, Eggman Nega says
"He He!", boss extends left arm:
Ring Loss Risk! Chance to hit
boss! The arm will come out and
try to grab Super Blaze. Try to
dash away, if she is grabbed,
she gets slapped by the other
arm and looses 5 or 10 Rings. If
you get away, the cockpit is
blinking and you can hit the
boss.

Boss moves backwards, than
forwards off screen and into
background and says "Get Ready
to be Schooled!": Ring Loss
Risk! Seriously, the most evil
attack ever. The boss rips a
hole in space sucking everything
into it including you and nearby
Rings. At the end of the attack
you loose 5 or 10 Rings. I never
figured out how to avoid this
attack on my own... but Jagus
figured it out... thanks... you
dash straight up or straight
down, starting just before the
attack... don't deviate to the
sides at all.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
10. Special Stages:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Blaze
gets it easy, she just gets one
of her Sol Emeralds back each
time she defeats a Boss. But
Sonic has to find the Special
Gimmicks and enter the Special
Stages to grab the Chaos
Emeralds. If you can get all 7
Chaos Emeralds, you have a
chance to enter the Extra Zone
and see the true ending of the
game. The Advance series had you
finding many Special things
including Special Springs,
Special Rings and Special Keys,
now add Special Gimmicks (or
Special Generators) to this
list. Thankfully except in the
last couple of Zones most of
them are easy to find and there
are three in each Act. They have
a star in the middle and two
handles. Every Special Gimmick
in each Zone takes you to the
same stage, so all you really
need to know is where one is in
each Zone, in fact you have
already completed the Zone you
just need to get the Emerald
then you are free to leave the
Act and Zone all together with
your Emerald. To activate one,
you first need to make sure you
have at least 105% Tension (at
least all blue bars and one
orange bar), then press X or Y
to start spinning. Keep holding
X or Y until you are sucked into
the Special Stage. If you have
too little tension you will just
stop spinning when the gauge
gets down to zero and at zero
you can't spin the Special
Gimmick at all. Also if you spin
a Special Gimmick with full
Tension and you are glowing if
you warp into the Special Stage
before your meter stops blinking
and you go back down to 200%
Tension, your meter will still
be blinking once you leave the
Special Stage, so it is possible
to go get a little more Tension
to keep your meter up, then go
to the Special Gimmick again and
keep your meter going and get
into the Special Stage even more
than normal. Gimmicks seem to be
placed in certain locations,
some are in rooms where you can
only use the Gimmick once, then
you can't even reach it again
and you have to leave and others
seem to be placed in spots near
a whole lot of springs, enemies,
tension item boxes, etc... where
it is easy to refill your gauge
more and enter the Special Stage
again. These sort of things are
described later in the Special
Gimmick Location Guide. The
Special Stage itself is a half-
pike like in Sonic 2 but with a
twist, you control Sonic with
the stylus by sliding it back
and forth across the half- pike.
If you sweep your stylus over
the top of the pike you can make
Sonic jump up in the air and
grab rings or other things that
are floating above the half-
pike. You will be told to grab a
certain number of Rings. When
you reach the half-way point if
you don't have that number of
Rings you are kicked out of the
Special Stage, but if you do
have enough Rings the number is
increased for the next section,
and if you can grab that number
you are rewarded a Chaos
Emerald.

The objects in the Special Stage
are:

Rings: The things you gather of
course.

5 Rings: These silver things are
worth 5 Rings.

Mines: Hitting these spiky
things will cause you to loose
10 rings.

Buttons: Press a button to make
more Rings appear.

Booster Pad: Makes you go faster
and leads you down a certain
path for a short period of time,
often gets you Rings/Trick
Springs and past mines.

Enemies: When you are close
enough to them, a green target
will appear on them and at that
moment if you tap them with the
stylus Sonic will spin right
toward them to hit them. If you
hit them the red ones take one
hit to destroy and are worth 2
Rings and the purple ones take
three hits to destroy and are
worth 5 Rings, but enemies are
dangerous and if they hit you
you lose 10 Rings, the Purple
ones will actively attack you.

Trick Springs: If you hit one of
the red circles with a Star in
it, you get to play a Bonus Game
where you have to touch numbers
in order before time runs out.
You are rewarded with Rings and
sometimes there is more than one
round. The number of Rings
awarded depends on how fast you
touch the numbers or more
specifically how much of the bar
that appears at the bottom of
the screen is left... the
different words that appear tell
you how many Rings you will get:
Miss!: Uh-oh, you didn't make it
in time... No Rings for You!
Fantastic!: about 3/4ths or more
of the bar left, you get 20
Rings Great!: between 3/4ths and
1/2th of the bar left, you get
10 Rings Nice!: less than 1/2th
of the bar left, you get 5 Rings

NEW TIP: Often you can just
slide your stylus across the
numbers instead of tapping them.

Chaos Emerald: What you are
trying to get.

Tips: If you don't like how a
part of the Special Stage looks,
make Sonic jump over the area.
Practice the timing of jumping
to grab mid-air objects,
especially if it is a Trick
Spring. The last Special Stage
is the hardest, memorize the
first part, but the second part
is a lot easier. There is a
partial walkthrough of this
Special Stage coming up next. As
a little cheat, pause the
Special Stage, then move the
stylus, then unpause the game to
make Sonic almost instantly
move, this also works during the
touch numbers minigame the Trick
Springs take you to.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.a.
Special Stage 7 Tips/ Partial
Walkthrough:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
other Special Stages are a piece
of cake compared to this one...
anyway for where to enter the
Special Stage in Dead Line,
consult the next section with
the locations of the Special
Gimmicks... the best one being
number 2 in the first Act.
Anyway the main strategy to this
one is to hit both of the Trick
Springs in the first part of the
stage and then hit the numbers
as fast as you can on the screen
for a "Great!" Bonus (10 Rings)
instead of a "Nice!" Bonus (5
Rings) and both these minigames
have more than one round... so
as part of the upcoming mostly
text walkthrough I map out where
the numbers appear on the
screen. The next section of the
Special Stage is easier but I
didn't walkthrough it because
seriously, I don't get there
very often still and it is
easier, but there are still some
tips I will give on completing
it with enough Rings. A complete
ASCII guide would be sweet, but
I don't have time, other people
are apparently still working on
one...

Note: Many people find it easier
to use the pausing trick I
described in the section before
this.

Obtain 160 Rings!:

First two sections are seemingly
random mine fields with Rings
and 5 Rings scattered. The trick
is that there is a safer path
toward the right of the mine
field... don't try to grab every
single Ring, you will get hit,
focus mostly on staying on this
path and most of the 5 Rings you
can grab safely. It's more
important to not get hit than to
gather Rings, even at this early
point.

Next comes three lines of mines
going almost straight across...
just swing right and left to go
through the clear spaces filled
with Rings, pretty obvious, ehh?

Then you have a button followed
by three mines... followed by a
lot of rings if you pushed the
button... there are three of
these in a row, you need to push
all three buttons and grab all
the Rings that appear, if you
run in between the mines, be
careful.

Next is the tricky section that
I don't usually try to duck
entirely... several lines of
mines going all the way across
with gaps of two Rings in
them... the tricky part is going
from gap to gap... go ahead and
get hit.. you need to slow


down anyway... cause after this
section hovering above the half-
pike to the right is a Spring
that takes you to a mini-game...
hope you practiced your timing
good for hitting hovering
objects so you can quickly swing
your stylus up and catch the
spring... this is why I
recommend getting hit, a
temporarily invincible Sonic
won't get tripped up by mines
trying to hit the Spring. This
mini-game has two rounds, and
try to tap these numbers as fast
as possible. The numbers appear
like this on the touch screen,
tap them fast with the stylus!:

Round 1: Round 2:

  1                         2
  2     6                   3   
  7                         1
  3     5                   4   
  4                         5


The next section is another
random mine field, this time
it's a little safer to at first
be on the left side, then move
to the edge of the right...
about the best I can explain it
right now...

Next is an easy to catch Speed
Booster, yeah, it leads to
Rings... but after that going up
a hill you see random groups of
three mines... at the very top
of the hill near the left is
another Speed Booster you need
to catch. To catch it, going up
the hill hug the top left edge
of the half-pike to get past all
the mines and then you should
run into the Speed Booster after
cresting the top. The next part
is a row of Mines going
completely across the half-pike
and a Red Enemy hovering above,
when close enough, tap the enemy
with the stylus so you jump over
the mines and get bonus Rings.

Now is a section of groups of
four mines with groups of four
Rings, it's relatively easy to
swing back and fourth ducking
mines and grabbing Rings.

Now is another section very
similar to the one before the
first Minigame... and guess
what... the second Minigame is
hovering above and to the right
this time... do the same exact
thing as in the first section...
and make sure to hit this
spring: This one has three
rounds, the first one kind of
hard and you will probably get a
"Nice!" bonus, but the other two
are a lot easier, they look like
this:

Round 1: Round 2: Round 3:

   1                    3       
  3     5
   6
  7     4
   2                        2   


After this is one more line of
mines with an enemy floating
above it... and the first
checkpoint... hopefully you have
at least 160 Rings, and
hopefully if I explained the top
section correctly you will...
now on to the next, easier
section!

Obtain 320 Rings!: Just tips...
A lot of enemies, fighting
enemies too much can prevent you
from grabbing enough of the
plentiful Rings on the course,
so time you Enemy hits so you
take breaks and pick up Rings in
between hitting them, Enemies
are worth Rings themselves and
they can hurt you so you can't
just ignore them. There are
Rings and even Springs floating
right in the middle of the
course, these you have to hit a
purple enemy at the correct time
to grab, not only does this take
incredible timing... but Purple
Enemies will attack you if you
don't attack them for too long a
period of time... try to get
these objects as much as you
can, but don't worry about it
too much, not necessary.
Minigames are even faster than
in the first section and most of
the springs easier to hit, but
thankfully there are not as many
numbers usually, still pretty
important when trying to get
enough Rings.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.
Special Gimmick Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ There
are three Special Gimmicks
(often called Special
Generators) in each of Sonic's
Acts. I described how to use
them earlier, just refer back to
the beginning of Section 9. The
description of each Special
Gimmick starts off with a rating
on how useful it really is,
including a Least and Most
useful in the Act rating right
after the gimmick number.
Usefulness of a Special Gimmick
is how many times in a row you
can use it to get into the
Special Stage. A completely full
Tension Gauge will get you into
the Special Stage two times
usually, and you should always
try to have you Tension Gauge
full when approaching a Special
Gimmick. Also you can maintain
full blinking with nearby tricks
and get into it even more
times... But the location of the
Special Gimmick affects how
useful it is... the worst kind
of Special Gimmick is in some
sort of isolated place way up
high and once you use it once,
there is absolutely no way to
get back to it, even if you
still have enough Tension to
enter the Special Stage again.
The other extreme is one placed
next to so many various things
that allow you to earn Tension
that you can literally keep
refilling your gauge, reentering
the Special Stage and exiting
again and you can keep at it
till you finally get that
elusive Chaos Emerald or you
literally run out of time if you
have the Time Up option on in
the Options Menu. On the other
hand, the Chaos Emeralds are
pretty simple to grab so you
will probably only really need
this info for that hard seventh
Emerald, or the last couple of
Zones where Special Gimmicks
tend to hide a little better.
The Usefulness Section starts
off with four descriptive
phrases separated by /. The
first phrase describes how many
times in a row you can use it
ranging from once to infinite if
it is located next to a cannon
or rail you can trick a whole
lot, second phrase is where in
the Act it is, third is how easy
is it to find on your own, and
fourth is once you find it how
easy is it to actually get to
the Special Gimmick. The
usefulness section will then go
into detail on where nearby the
Special Gimmick you can fill up
your Tension Gauge and other
useful info. Then following the
Usefulness Section will be Non-
through Location, if you have
read my guides in the past, you
know I am very through
(truthfully too through, I know,
but I want to make sure you get
there) but this time I am
conducting an experiment... can
you find the Special Gimmicks
alright without the horribly
detail directions? Or will you
still want them in incase you
get lost?

Note: I might still do detailed
Locations if there is enough
demand for this guide to be more
like my Sonic Advance series
guides. If not and everyone can
find these okay with my simple
descriptions it saves me typing.
No one has asked for more
detailed descriptions yet... so
I will keep it this way. Also I
am thinking about updating my
past guides with shorter
location walkthroughs... keep an
eye out for that! Another Note:
Usefulness increases if you can
maintain a completely full
Tension Gauge all the way
through the warping process so
you will have a full gauge even
when you return from the Special
Stage... but the warping process
takes time meaning you usually
loose your Completely Full Gauge
and drop down to 200% or less
after leaving the Special Stage,
so I really didn't mention where
it is possible to do this at.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.1.
Leaf Storm Act 1 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
first one is the easiest to find
and most useful and I am sure
most people will probably grab
the Emerald the first time
trying, I sure did.

SG#1 (Most Useful In Zone):
Usefulness: Infinite/Mid-Way
Through/Very Easy to Find/Easy
to Get To Easy to find, there is
a rail to the left of it and an
enemy and trampoline to the
right that will get you more
tension, especially the rail
which you can use to trick as
much as you want to, but once
you go a little further in the
act you can't go back to it.
Location: Soon after first
Checkpoint.

SG#2:Usefulness: Infinite/Mid-
Way Through/Medium Hid/Easy to
Get To You actually miss this
one by using too many R tricks
and going too high in the act,
but you can go up higher and
then drop down once you know
where it is. A rail is to the
left and the large number of
springs to the right makes this
one great, but this is an Easy
Chaos Emerald anyway, so does it
really matter? Location: After
first Special Gimmick don't
bounce up higher on trampoline
and take lower route through
loop. After hitting a second
trampoline and a loop, land on
rail, not up high, SG is right
after this rail.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use Once or a
Few Times/End of Act/Easy to
Find/Medium Difficulty Getting
To This baby is on a tiny
platform, depending on how you
approach it, you either find
yourself launched off a ramp
over it making it hard to get
to, or from a spring up through
a floor. One hidden route near
the end of the Act will make you
miss it all together, but most
people don't go that way. Either
way kind of hard to grab this
one and you would probably want
to use it just once anyway since
it is near the end of the act,
but if for some weird reason you
want to


recharge, jump over the hole to
the left over the little ramp
and you will find an enemy and
some hoops to recharge your
gauge. Location: Near the end of
the act, when on last spiral
spring Gimmick don't jump off
the Gimmick and go the hidden
lower route. It is kind of
raised up, you find yourself
launched over it from a ramp or
up to it from a spring but you
should see it right before
getting to the Goal.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.2.
Leaf Storm Act 2 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ In
general the theme for this Act
is "Hide the Special
Gimmicks..."

SG#1: Usefulness: Infinite (but
risky)/Near Beginning of
Act/Hidden/Pretty Easy to Get
Too This tricky one you can only
find if you see the three rings
under a rail near the bottom of
the level. To the right is a
spring that will get you on a
rail you can trick infinitely,
but be very careful because it
is easy to hit the flying enemy
and below this rail is a
bottomless pit, so even though
you can trick a whole lot it is
a risky area to be in to begin
with. Location: Stay as low in
the level as you can. Soon after
bouncing on a trampoline and
going through a Rainbow Hoop,
you will be on a short rail, if
you look under this rail, you
will see three rings floating
below the left-hand side of it
next to a wall, jump through the
rail and grab the rings and you
will probably land right on this
Special Gimmick.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Mid Way
Through/Hidden/Medium Difficulty
Getting To This hidden SG is in
a little hollowed out stump room
with a Full Tension Item Box and
an Enemy. You could use this one
a few times if you come with a
full Tension Meter and then use
the Item Box and Enemy to
recharge, but after you hit the
bungee you will not be able to
get back there, not a very
useful one. Location: Starting
from SG#1, continue till you hit
the next checkpoint. Very soon
afterwards you will find
yourself on a bungee. Instead of
bouncing up to the higher level,
instead see that other bungee
just to the right? Bounce just a
little so you land just to the
right of that. See the speed
booster next to the hollow log?
Hitting it will just send you
into the other bungee, but
instead carefully try to jump
over it to the right.

SG#3: Usefulness: Infinite/Near
End of Act/Mostly Hidden/Easy to
Get To Near the bottom of the
act and normally a ramp and hoop
propel you away from here. There
is a pretty good array of things
to recharge your tension with
including an infinite rail very
close by. Location: Starting
from SG#2 soon after hitting the
next checkpoint make sure to
stick to the lowest part of the
level again, which means jumping
into huge areas that normally
ramps/hoops naturally get you
over, but don't jump into one
thin hole which a spring gets
you over. Soon after this spring
you hit a checkpoint and the SG
is very soon after that.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.3.
Water Palace Act 1 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Annoying
SGs... Even the one I hesitantly
dubbed most useful in Zone...

SG#1 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: A Few Times/Near
Beginning/Medium Obvious/Kind of
Hard to Get To An annoying one
because it happens to be located
on a shaky platform above water.
You could recharge on a nearby
spring or enemy a little, but
usually when you come out of the
Special Stage here you either
end up falling off the platform
or fall off when trying to make
it back to that spring... well,
it does get easier with
practice... but not worth it...
Location: No matter which path
you initially choose, very soon
in the level a spring will
bounce you over a lot of water.
You will see a few floating
platforms and the SG if floating
over one of them... but DON'T
use a right R Button Trick here,
instead use up + R Button Trick
so you can use a spring pointing
up to spring you up and to the
left to the three floating
platforms so you can jump left
to the third one. (Note, I had
the above part mixed up in the
earlier versions of this guide,
a right trick doesn't get you
high enough sometimes.)

SG#2: Usefulness: Couple
Times/Mid Way Through/Medium
Obvious/Kind of Easy To Get To
Annoying just for the fact it is
underwater and there are no air
bubbles near it. There is an
enemy and Tension Bonus above
this Special Gimmick, but kind
of hard to get up there.
Location: From SG#1, fall down
and go the underwater route. At
one point you will have the
option to use a moving platform
and one floating on the water to
get out of the water area, but
instead continue to the right
underwater. You will come to an
underwater SG soon after the
next checkpoint.

SG#3: Usefulness: Very Few
Times/Near End of Act/Mostly
Hidden/Medium-Hard to Get To
Another weird annoying
underwater one that is kind of
hard to get to, as soon as you
use it you have to jump off to
the area below and you can't get
back up there and there is only
one nearby enemy so make sure
you bring a lot of Tension with
you. Location: From SG#2 use
Tension to activate first
paddlewheel Gimmick. After this
stay high in the level, but you
will end up running into water
again eventually. After the next
checkpoint, there is a spring
and a paddlewheel Gimmick up
high, jump up with the spring,
and then do a Right + R Button
Trick to activate the Gimmick to
send you up. Soon you will come
to shaky platforms in water
again, jump across three of
these and the fourth one is
rectangular. This platform falls
if you stand on it, soon after
it falls jump and land slightly
to the right to find the little
area with the SG.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.4.
Water Palace Act 2 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Kind of
annoying like the last one, the
second one took me a while to
find because I kept looking for
it somewhere before the first
one and the third one is not far
from the first one anyway... so
I give two routes to the third
one.

SG#1: Usefulness: A Few
Times/Mid Way Through/Medium
Hidden/More Annoying than Hard
to Get to A weird one near shaky
platforms and spikes... there is
a spring below it and some
enemies to recharge a little.
Getting to it is the weird part.
Location:Several ways to get
through this level, but
eventually you will hit a
paddlewheel Gimmick, don't
activate it much. Eventually you
will hit a spring and it will be
above waterline to the left a
little.

SG#2: Usefulness: A Few Times
/Near End of Act/ Medium
Hidden/Easy-Medium to Get to
Only a couple enemies near this
underwater SG to Boost your
meter, but at least not far from
the water's surface and if you
keep going to the left of it you
will find a 1up. Location: From
SG#1 Activate the paddlewheel
Gimmick you eventually get to by
Boosting into it. (If you don't
activate it, it's a more direct
route to SG#3) You will
eventually find it to the left
to two enemies.

SG#3: Usefulness: Several
Times/Near End of Act/Medium
Hidden/Easy-Medium to Get to
Another underwater Gimmick, but
better than most in this entire
Zone because of the nice amount
of Springs nearby to charge up
Boost and the top most spring
can bounce you out of the water
so you do not drown. Watch out
for the hole to the right, it is
bottomless, continue this level
by bouncing on the spring to the
left that is facing up.
Location: From SG#1: don't
activate paddlewheel Gimmick
much. At one point, there is two
Mine Gimmicks, touch them both
and watch them kill Enemies,
then bounce on nearby springs
and you will see the SG to the
right at the top. From SG#3:
Soon after grinding a rail you
will be launched from a spring
over a large gap, instead of
going all the way across, drop
down and you will find it
underwater, just don't go to far
to the right and land in a
bottomless pit.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.5.
Mirage Road Act 1 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Hidden
SGs, the third one has a couple
different ways to get to it,
both kind of hard, especially if
you want to hit all three in one
go of the act which is quite
hard.

SG#1: Usefulness: Use a Few
Times/Beginning of
Act/Hidden/Easy-Medium to Get to
You have to fight through an
extra battle room and this
Special Gimmick is one of your
rewards. Your Tension should be
high after the battle, but you
can also raise it with the
spring directly under this SG,
or go back to the hoops you were
at to trick off of those.
Location: A little bit into the
Act you will come to a place
where there is a moving block to
the upper right and below some
spikes. Jump and land on the
moving block, you have to go the
upper path. Soon after the
battle room you will go up
through a Rainbow Hoop, land to
the left instead of right and
you will find another battle
room. To the left of this is a
reward room with a SG, 1up and a
shield.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Near Beginning of
Act/Hidden/Medium to Get to This
one is to the left of an
annoying sand slide, which you
can't fall into if you either
want to gain more Tension from
the springs you were just one or
the enemy, or if you want to try
to get to all three SG's in this
act. Location: From SG#1 go back
to the right. Soon a spring will
bounce you and you will see
shaky platforms, don't land on
them unless you want to go
directly to the harder SG#3...
instead fall through. Soon after
the next checkpoint you find
yourself sort of going up a
slope and into the air where you
see an Enemy and a spring
against the right wall you can't
quite reach... under the enemy
is an Invisible Spring, hit it
so you can then proceed to hit
that spring against the wall to
end up where this SG is, but
don't land in the sand slide
that takes you away from it, but
that's kind of hard to do.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use a Few
Times (Infinite if you are
crazy)/Near Beginning of
Act/Hidden/Hard to get To Pretty
hard to get to, there is a Full
Tension Gauge Item Box and
Enemy... if you are crazy you
can try to use the rail to make
it infinite if you dare to...
you will probably die trying to
do that or often just trying to
get out of this area anyway...
Location: From SG#1: Remember
the shaky platforms you decided
not to go across to get to SG#2?
Go across them this time to get
to this one. From SG#2: Kind of
stupid way, only do if you
really am a nerd like me who has
to find a way to get to all
three in one go... Make sure you
don't fall into the sand slide
and go back the way you can from
up then down hill. When you get
to the gap you normally rip cord
across, jump into it and go as
far left you can, landing on top
of a Gimmick. Now jump from
there and land a little to the
right on a rail. You have to go
down instead of up this rail
like normal, jump off the rail
before you hit the speed booster
at the bottom toward the left,
and try to land on a ramp before
you plummet to your death, then
go left.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.6.
Mirage Road Act 2 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Ehh, not
that bad of an Act.

SG#1: Usefulness: Use A Few
Times/Near Beginning of
Act/Slightly Hidden/Easy to Get
To Ehh, a pretty average one,
you can use the enemy and the
Rainbow Hoop you just went
through to recharge, but if you
head into the Sand Slide to your
left or the Battle Room if you
head right, you will never be
able to get back to here, so you
can't recharge much. Location:
Not very far into an act, you
are bounced near two rails one
higher than the other. The
bottom rail is the one you
naturally land on, but do an up
+ R button Trick to land on the
top rail. After going up through
a Rainbow Hoop, head left
instead of right.

SG#2 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: Use Several
Times/Mid Way Through/Easy to
Find if You Found First One/Easy
to Get To If you go into the
Sand Slide near the first SG and
go that path, you will
eventually bounce right into
this one. A pretty average one
with several springs underneath
to charge you up. Location: From
SG#1, head into the Sand Slide
Gimmick just to the left of you
and continue on that path and
you will eventually find it.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use A Couple
Times/Near End/Easy to Find/Easy
to Get To Near the End, the only
way to recharge is kill the
enemies on the large slope
ahead, but then you have to
boost back up the slope loosing
some of the energy you recharge,
and of course the end of act
golden thing ride is right ahead
of this. Location: Soon after
Last Checkpoint, right after
jumping over spikes.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.7.
Night Carnival Act 1 SG
Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
second one is easier to get to
if you go past the first one,
but I'm a nerd, you can get to
the second one if you grab the
first one also.

SG#1 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: Use One or Two
Times/Beginning of Act/Pretty
Easy to Find/Easy to Get To This
one you cannot recharge nearby,
and there are only like two
places to get Tension before
arriving here, so make sure you
do that. It is very near the
beginning, making it nice.
Location: On first Swing Gimmick
make it to the other side
instead of dropping down lower.
Jump clear over after launched
by ramp. Soon you will see it
under you when on a Light Ride
Gimmick.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use
Once/Beginning of Act/Slightly
Hidden/Medium to Get To A kind
of hidden one high in the air
you have to use a Swing Gimmick
to get to. If you really want to
use it more than once, you have
to drop way below to find a
Rainbow Hoop and then use an R
trick to grab the handle of the
Gimmick again as in the second
way I describe getting here
below. Location: From Beginning:
Go same way as for SG#1, but
instead go all the way across on
Light Ride that goes over SG#1.
On the next Swing Gimmick swing
all the way up as you can to the
right so you can jump off the
Gimmick and grab this mid-air
SG. From SG#1: After going up
through a Rainbow Hoop, try to
head as far left as possible, do
an Up + R Button Trick to grab
the handle of the Swing Gimmick,
this is the same Swing Gimmick
described above.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Mid Way Through/Slightly
Hidden/Easy-Medium to Get to.
Pretty easy to get down there,
just need to make sure to boost
and push the right buttons, but
once around here there is just
one enemy to assist in gauge
refilling. Location: From SG#1,
make sure you dash into the huge
Spirally Gimmick after the next
Checkpoint so you fully activate
it and can make it across to the
High Route. On the next Light
Ride (hint, you have to use an
R-button trick to activate it),
look below and you will soon see
a balloon and rings, jump off
the ride and grab them and you
will fall on or near the SG.

 ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
10.b.8. Night Carnival Act 2 SG
Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Ehh, not
as good as the First Act, with
the first two SGs hidden and the
last one that can be only used
one time.

SG#1: Usefulness: Use A Few
Times/Mid Way
Through/Hidden/Medium to Get to
A kind of tricky one you have to
slow down and be careful to get
to. The Gimmick nearby you
crouch down to activate will
send you through a hoop and
through a floor, but simply go a
little left, jump down and back
to the same area if you want to
recharge a little up there.
Careful, the drop off on both
sides of this area is lethal.
Location: No matter which path
you take to begin with,
eventually a spring will make
you go up through a certain
Rainbow Hoop with a Bat Enemy
high above it and right after
that SLOW DOWN when you hit the
barrier and there is a Rail you
activate by pushing a button.
Instead of pushing the button,
walk off the edge slowly then
jump down that narrow hole you
see, the light will go off, take
that path.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use A Couple
Times/Toward End/Kind of
Hidden/Medium to Get To The path
to get here is a little rough,
but you can cheat by going
backwards a little from Last
Checkpoint. A Speed Booster
launches you up in the air and
you have to run into this every
time you want to grab this mid-
air SG. Only one nearby enemy
will help with Tension Getting.
Location: From SG#1: First
Spirally Gimmick don't Boost
into much, jump off it and land
to the area at the right with
Enemies, don't fall into the
large pit of doom. This path is
a little difficult but continue
to eventually find the Special
Gimmick. From Last Checkpoint:
Boost to the left from here and
you will eventually fall into
this area.

SG#3: Usefulness: One
Timer/Toward End/Pretty Easy to
Find/Easy-Medium to Get To The
trick here is not finding it,
but you have to hit the three
balloons right after the
checkpoint perfectly to grab it,
these balloons will actually
help fill your gauge and once
you go into the Special Stage
once the balloons disappear
leaving it unreachable again.
Location: Right after the Last
Checkpoint, there are three
balloons, hit them in a row to
get to this SG.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.9.
Huge Crisis Act 1 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ A nice
act when it comes to getting
into the Special Stage, not so
nice when it comes to crushing
risk...

SG#1: Usefulness: Use One or Two
Times/Near Beginning/Pretty Easy
to Find/Pretty Easy to Get To
This strange one is floating
above platforms that crumble, if
you fall through you can't get
back on it. Location: A little
ways into the act, you are
launched over a large area from
a ramp, instead of landing on
the other side of the top of the
ship, look below for the SG.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use Several
Times/Near Beginning/Easy to
Find/Easy to Get To There is one
spring nearby but if you dare to
cross the crushing area to
recharge you will find a Full
Tension Bonus Item Box and a few
more springs. Location: From
SG#1, not that far from the next
Checkpoint, you will bounce over
it on a spring, it is near
crushers.

SG#3: Usefulness: Infinite/Near
End/Slightly Hidden/Medium-Easy
to Get To A very useful one,
since it is near enemies and
more importantly a long rail to
the right. Location: Path #1:
Near the end, there is a huge
area you normally fall down into
with a robot, a tube and a
shield and 1up Item Box. Instead
of going down there, try to jump
over the huge gap. Path #2: If
you fall down into the huge
area, then continue on, soon
after the battle room you will
find yourself at a rail, go to
the left instead of on the rail.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.10.
Huge Crisis Act 2 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
first Special Gimmick is very
useful but the last two are
nothing to call home about. Even
more of a crush risk in this Act
than the last.

SG#1 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: Infinite/Beginning
of Act/Hidden/Pretty Easy to Get
To

This Special Gimmick is floating
in the air between two rails...
you have to use a Rail Trick or
R trick off the end to get back
up there... but it's by two
rails... you know what that
means... super SG... Location:
On the first rail in the act,
jump at the highest point where
you see three rings so you are
sucked up by a tube, continue on
that path.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use A Few
Times/Mid Way Through/Easy to
Find/Pretty Easy to Get To This
one is also floating in the air,
get on it by using the spring on
the wall that is to the left.
This spring and a few nearby
enemies/battle room lets you
recharge some. Location: From
SG#1 continue on... it's in the
air before the battle room with
the steam shooting up from the
floor.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use a Few
Times/Toward End/Slightly
Hidden/Pretty Easy to Get to
This one is also up high, you
actually have to use the little
springy Enemy below to bounce up
to it. A few nearby enemies can
help you recharge, but if you
kill the springy enemy you can't
get back up there. Location:
From SG#2, after bouncing up
through the floor via spring, go
the lower route instead of using
a trick to reach the hook above.
You will find it pretty soon
after the next battle room
floating in the air in it's own
little room with enemies and
stuff.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.11.
Altitude Limit Act 1 SG
Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ You have
to go through quite a bit of
this high up act before you find
the really good Special Gimmick.

SG#1: Usefulness: Use Once or
Twice/Beginning of
Act/Hidden/Easy to Get To This
one is isolated in a small room,
so you can only use the Tension
you bring with you. Location:
When you hit the first spring in
the act and bounce up to the
high rail, use a little Tension
and go left uphill on that rail
instead of right and continue on
that path.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use a Few
Times/Near Beginning of
Act/Pretty Easy to Find/Medium
to Get To Use the Rocket Pad to
get to it, or use the spring and
slightly cut short your line of
travel or jump off to the right
from where you land after
hitting the spring. A Full
Tension Item Box, a few springs
and one enemy can help with
Tension refill. Location: Soon
after First Checkpoint, above
where you normally get off the
Rocket Pad.

SG#3:Usefulness: Infinite/Mid
Way Through/Hidden/Pretty Easy
to Get To Located just above a
rail... Location: Path 1:
Shortly after next Parachute
Ride (Right before the Parasail
part) on the rails there is one
part where you are heading left
and a Speed Booster sends you to
the right uphill to the parasail
part, jump over this Speed
Booster instead to find the SG.
Path 2 (Harder): If you choose
to go the way where you are
ducking a lot of enemies while
on a Rocket Pad, if you go
through the small hole in the
ceiling and go that direction,
you will bounce on a spring up
to this area.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.12.
Altitude Limit Act 2 SG
Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
first SG is extremely good, but
the second one is just for
people that absolutely have to
find everything.

SG#1 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: Infinite/Beginning
of Act/Hidden/Easy to Get To
Above a rail, nuff said...
Location: When on the first
parachute, head to the left
instead of the right.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Mid Way
Through/Hidden/Very Hard to Get
To Not only are their enemies in
your path but they are shooting
at you... seriously, a very hard
one to get to (I died more than
one trying to get back up there
to write this description) and
only worth finding if you are a
person like me that has to find
everything. Only one Full
Tension Item Box to help you
refill. Location: From SG#1,
very carefully use first Rocket
Pad to get as high as
possible... with enemies
shooting at you, you have to
perfect jumping off the pad
killing enemies then jumping
back on.

SG#3: Usefulness: Infinite/Near
End/Hidden/Hard to Get To It is
a lot of trouble to get to since
you have to navigate though a
small gap lined with spikes with
a parachute then land on a
spring, but once you get up
there not only is there this
infinite SG but also a lot of
rings and a Tension Bonus in a
Balloon. Location: During next
Parachute part, hug the right
wall when falling down, there is
a small gap lined with spikes
you need to float through, then
land on the spring to spring up
to the rail area with the SG.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.13.
Dead Line Act 1 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ SG#1:
Usefulness: One Timer/Sort of
Close to Beginning/Kind of
Hidden/Relatively Easy to Get To
It is stuck in mid-air, a spring
hit you on it and the only way
you can mess this up is if you
try to Trick after hitting this
spring. Once you get off of it
and drop down you can't get back
to it at all. The only things
really going for it is the fact
that right before you hit it you
hit two Tension Bonuses allowing
you to use it even if you come
to this area with zero Tension
and it is kind of close to the
beginning of the Act, but not
close enough where it is really
worth restarting the Act to get
to it. Location: From the
beginning, choose up at the
first cannon, down at the next
and you will eventually hit the
Special Gimmick.

SG#2 (Most Useful in Zone):
Usefulness: Infinite/Mid-way
Through Act/Kind of
Hidden/Medium Difficulty to Get
To Unlike a lot of the Trick
devices, you can use a cannon to
Trick as many times as you want
to in a row without loosing
Points or Tension gained...
There happens to be a cannon to
the left and below of the
Special Gimmick, use the cannon
to fill up your gauge and to
blast you back to the area where
it happens to be. Be careful, if
you enter the cannon just to the
right of this SG you will not be
able to get back to it.
Location: From the first Special
Gimmick, go mostly straight on
the first rocket, be careful of
the spikes! (up is fine too but
harder) Then on second rocket
push B to get off of it early,
go into the cannon you see below
you and use it to launch to the
right where the Special Gimmick
is or if you are good at
steering rockets steer the
rocket up there.

SG#3: Usefulness: Use a Whole
Lot(Infinite if you care to
explore nearby)/Near end of
Act/Relatively Easy to
Find/Easy-Medium to Get Too
There is just a lot of stuff
near this Special Gimmick that
you can use to charge up your
Gauge. To the left is some hoops
you can jump in a few times,
then the spring right below
it... DON'T jump into the hoops
just to the right of

this spring, they will propel
you away from the Special
Gimmick. Use the spring to get
to the upper right area where
you will find a Tension Bonus
Item Box, a rail, some enemies
under the rail, etc... It is at
the end of the Act and takes
time to get to, but you can also
run out of time and die and end
up at the last Checkpoint again.
Location: After the last
checkpoint and then going up
through hoops, you go to the
right and use the spring to
spring yourself up to the
Special Gimmick, don't go into
the hoops to the right of this
spring.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 10.b.14.
Dead Line Act 2 SG Locations:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

SG#1: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Mid Way
Through/Hidden/Medium to Get To
This one is just plain upside
down. You can't use the spring
beyond the barrier to trick
because it bounces you out of
the area. Location: A little
ways into the Act, you will come
to the area where you can push a
block over a small gap and you
can either leave the block
hanging there a little to go one
path or jump in the hole next to
the block with three Rings, jump
into this gap to get to the
higher rail. Choose up the next
three cannons in a row, right
after being blasted off the
third cannon gravity will
reverse, go left instead of
right to find the SG.

SG#2: Usefulness: Use a Couple
Times/Mid Way
Through/Hidden/Very Hard to Get
To Hard to steer the rocket into
this area, the only benefits
being a 1up, Full Tension Bonus
and a different way through the
Act that helps you get S-ranks
and good times on Time Attack...
Location: Quite a ways through
the Act you will come to a
rocket that points right (there
is a huge spike bed to the right
of it) and you have to very
carefully guide the rocket to
get to the high route, steer the
rocket mostly straight but only
slightly downward, it is where
the 1up Item Box is. Or you can
crash the rocket into the wall
not steering it at all and then
use a Jump Dash to get into
there. It's hard to get here.

SG#3: Usefulness: One Timer/End
of Act/Pretty Easy to Find/Easy-
Medium to Get To It's not hard
to land on it off the rocket, I
found it is possible to get back
up there, but it uses Tension
you can't even get back... so
it's a One Timer. Location:
After Last Checkpoint there is a
rocket ride, you use this rocket
to land on the SG when it
crashes.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
11. Ranking:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ For each
Act and Boss, you get a Ranking
to tell you how well you did
based upon Score. Your Score is
totaled at the end of the Act or
Boss and doesn't actually appear
on screen during the Act or
Boss, you only get to see how
well you did at the end. For the
Acts Score is the total number
of points you received for Time
Left (the amount of points you
get for certain amounts of time
differs by Act, but max is
85,000 and it goes down in
intervals of 5,000 points for
every 10 seconds from there),
Tricks (Max you can get is
20,000, rounded off to nearest
1,000), Rings left (10 points
per Ring) and Speed (average
running speed, max 10,000).
Bosses are scored based on Rings
(1000 points per Ring in most,
100 points per Ring in Extra
Zone) and Time Left (like in
Acts specific times differ by
boss, max being 45,000). The
Rankings are strangely similar
to Chao Raising Rankings in
other Sonic games, the Highest
is S, then A, B and C.

Specific thanks to FadedDreams5
helping with the ranges:

Acts: S Rank: 100,000 or more
points A Rank: between 100,000
and 80,000 points B Rank:
between 80,000 and 50,000 points
C Rank: less than 50,000 points

Bosses: S Rank: 50,000 or more
points A Rank: between 50,000
and 40,000 points B Rank:
between 40,000 and 30,000 points
C Rank: less than 30,000


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
12. S-ranking Miniguide:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ What do
you get for all S-ranks? Nothing
but bragging rights... but here
is a guide to tell you how to do
it including details for Acts
and Bosses...

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 12.a. S
Ranking Acts:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
S-ranking Acts is kind of
similar to A-ranking the 3D
Sonic games. There is a balance
between Speed and Tricks, if you
just rush through the act and do
few Tricks, then you will get a
lot of speed and time bonus
points but not many Tricks
points and you end up not
getting an S-rank. But if you do
a whole lot of R plus up tricks
to keep you higher and Double
Advanced Tricks, then you will
find yourself with too few Time
and Speed points and no S-rank.
The trick is to find the right
balance of speed and tricks,
which happens to be finding a
short path in the Act and using
the Super/Fire (Tension) Boost
as much as possible to get a
high Time and Speed Bonus but
mostly Advanced Tricking every
chance you get... Sonic is
faster and Blaze is better at
tricking... some acts are
designed so that Sonic does
better, some Blaze does better,
just depends if the act is set
up to favor Speed over Tricks or
Tricks over Speed. More
specifically about Tricks, B/A
Tricks without the R button does
not change the path of motion
after coming off a Trick
Object/Gimmick and slow you down
little. The R button slows you
down more but in some cases,
especially with Blaze can
shortcut an Act too and can make
you go faster sideways. So R
button is fine in situations
where landing isn't tricky and
it will help you get more points
if you need them and are really
the trick to getting a very high
scored S rank... but if you are
bouncing off a series of springs
where if you mess up you are
dead, or going through a long
line of hoops, press the B
button a lot to trick and there
will be no danger of dying. In
general, most of your tricking
should be Advanced (B button
than A) or just B button,
especially if you are still
relatively new to playing the
game. Also keeping your Tension
Gauge full is not as important
as I used to think it is, just
use it as much as possible for
up to 10,000 points in Speed
Bonus, and Rings don't seem to
matter much in most acts, if you
are hit and loose all Rings and
some Tension just continue on
and you still have a very good
chance of S ranking that Act,
since Rings are the least
important point getter for S-
ranking and in fact if you plain
die and end up at the
checkpoint, it can actually help
maybe... read the Dirty Trick
below... so don't give up! But
keep in mind by dying you loose
1,000 speed points... Also there
are some Trick objects
especially good and you could
possibly get an infinite number
of points, but the game of
course lets you have a max of
20,000 trick points and it takes
time to get that many plus if
you trick too much it doesn't
help any more once you reach
20,000... but sadly there is no
way to tell that. Each 10
seconds of time is 5,000
points... so an extra 10 seconds
of tricking that doesn't get you
over 5,000 points is a waste of
Time and often can surprisingly
severely deplete your Speed
Bonus... keep this in mind...

Maxing Out All Bonuses: Adding
up the Max Time, Trick and Speed
Bonus, that total is 115,000...
then it's 10 points for every
Ring and it's pretty typical to
get about 200-300 Rings in an
Act, so don't expect to ever do
much better than 117,000 to
118,000 points, it's a higher
standard than just S-ranking
them. Getting at least over
110,000 points is a little
easier goal. If you are not
satisfied with just an S-rank
and want to get the max bonuses
stated above, you need to really
apply the principles I stated
above to the extreme... mainly,
you need to take almost all
shortcuts to get the lowest time
possible... and sometimes those
shortcuts are pretty crazy, be
creative... but during that
extra time Trick... what I mean
by extra time is if you get well
below the 85,000 point limit for
each Act, you can take extra
time to Trick and it won't
matter at bit if you still get
an 85,000 Point bonus... but if
you trick mostly in one spot it
cuts your speed bonus down, so
try to trick traveling
sideways... but also you need to
Super/Fire Boost every single
chance you get so you max out
the Speed Bonus. Sadly, this is
something I haven't perfected,
and a few acts I still can't
shortcut well and I know others
can... so I'm still working on
this for most Acts, sort of the
deal when I couldn't S-rank but
I still knew how, takes
practice...

Dirty Trick: Take your time and
Max out your Trick Points, then
die on purpose, the time
restarts at what it was when you
hit the checkpoint or at the
beginning of the Act, but you
still have your Maxed-out Trick
Bonus, but remember you will
loose 1000 Speed Points for
doing this.

S-Rank Act Details: Since Time
Bonus Varies by Act, I put the
times and points that you get
for the times. I now also added
the time to get a Max of 85,000
Time Bonus (which should have
been obvious anyway and not
given if I tell you to max out
Time Bonus anyway... why did I
say I had to find in the last
version of my guide, I must have
been tired, or something...), if
you can get under that then you
only need 15,000 more points to
S-rank, but it's not always easy
to get under that time in many
acts, which is why I give you
the other time ranges. Remember
to Boost a lot, usually as often
as you can, start the act
Boosting, a full Speed Bonus
(10,000 points) is not listed
below... but is very
significant! And mostly use the
B/A Tricks and don't drag out
tricks with R+up, especially
with Blaze. I didn't put Ring
Points because Rings are only
worth 10 points each and only
rarely make a difference, and
Speed because you should get
consistently 8,000- 10,000 if
you use your Tension as much as
possible. Route descriptions are
very brief usually, I would go
into more detail if it was a
full guide, maybe in the future.
Note: Remember these are
approximate, the less time you
take, the fewer trick points you
need, the more time you take,
the more trick points you
need... but especially in the
earlier Acts you can go too fast
and not trick enough... and you
can trick so much that it's not
worth it and you eat time,
remember Trick bonus is max
20,000. Max points overall is a
little over 115,000.

This very basic info is really
for someone starting out trying
to S-rank.


Leaf Storm Act 1: Bonus Ranges:
Time 1'00"00-1'19"00
(80,000-75,000 points); Trick
8,000-16,000 points 85,000 point
Time Bonus: Under 1'00"00 Route:
Highest Route mostly. Notes:
Medium Difficulty, trick often,
especially with Blaze, but watch
out for Blaze over tricking.
Shortcuts important.

Leaf Storm Act 2: Bonus Ranges:
Time 1'30"00-1'39"00 (75,000
points); Trick 14,000-18,000
points 85,000 point Time Bonus:
Under 1'20"00 Route: Medium
route to start, then at bungee
instead of hitting balloon fall
way down, doing a huge
6,000-8,000 point
Advanced/Double Advanced Trick
(Or go shorter route but still
do a whole lot of tricks). Rest
of level is high/medium route,
make sure you don't fall to the
low route toward the end, near
Sonic's last Special Gimmick.
Notes: A good amount of Advanced
Tricks... a high score requires
a lot of shortcuts I don't even
know...

Water Palace Act 1: Bonus
Ranges: Time 1"30"00-1'39"00
(80,000 points); Trick
10,000-12,000 points 85,000
point Time Bonus: Under 1'30"00
Route: Highest, across all shaky
platforms and gaps in general
and activating paddlewheel
gimmick. Notes: Not that bad if
you stick to the high route
above and do a lot of Advanced
Tricks and a few R button
assisted tricks, high route
avoids all Mine Gimmicks, but at
least one place requires use of
R button. Watch out for sword-
welding Eggpawns that will try
to push you off edges and send
you on the wrong path. Much
easier with Blaze, her up R
trick comes in very handy in
shortcutting and stuff, she can
grab a faster time and more
trick points. Water Palace Act
2: Bonus Ranges: Time
1'40"00-1'59"00 (85,000 points);
Trick 10,000 points Route:
Highest, across all gaps, up,
activate paddlewheel, etc...
Notes: Same exact notes as for
Water Palace Act 1, but Blaze is
a little slower this time. Also
two of the higher paths slightly
hidden, first one requires an
R+up trick across water, another
requires slowing down after
running across water and finding
a water spout.

Mirage Road Act 1: Bonus Ranges:
Time 2'50"00-2'59"00 (80,000
points); Trick 10,000-12,000
points 85,000 point Time Bonus:
Under 2'50"00 Route: First go
low... later on ignore hidden
spring that leads to hidden
route (Sonic SG#2 in this Act)
and instead when bouncing off
next spring, land in high room,
you land on top of a Gimmick
that you boost into to take you
lower... then you basically take
that Gimmick... Notes: Not hard.
Just trick a lot, etc... take
route sort of described above
and you will have it. Nice
shortcuts, but not necessary to
take them

Mirage Road Act 2: Bonus Ranges:
Time 3'00"00-3'40'00
(85,000-80,000 points); Trick
10,000 points Route: Near
beginning, don't use R to get to
higher rail where Sonic's first
Special Gimmick is. Other than
that all other paths fine.
Notes: Easy, there is a short
way, but it doesn't matter much,
most natural way is just fine.
Blaze has a couple of shortcuts.
Yes... that is a huge time
range... this is an easy act to
S-rank.

Night Carnival Act 1: Bonus
Ranges: Time 2'00"00-2'20"00
(85,000-80,000 points): Trick
10,000-12,000 Route: On the
first laser ride go down to the
lower route (where Sonic's first
Special Gimmick in this act is)
but other than that Highest,
activate all spiral Gimmicks...
activate all rail buttons,
etc... Notes: Not many trick
opportunities in general... a
good amount of tricking is
required and kind of tight.
There is almost a problem with
maintaining Tension if you don't
trick enough. R button helps in
several places and some very
nice shortcuts can easily cut
your time down. Easier for Sonic
than Blaze.

Night Carnival Act 2: Bonus
Ranges: Time 2'50"00-3'10"00
(85,000-80,000 points), Trick
10,000-14,000 points Route: On
two spiral Gimmicks don't go all
the way across but instead go
the lower route, other than that
go high as possible. Notes: At
least it's easier for Blaze than
Night Carnival Act 1, in fact
Sonic does very well here but
other than that pretty similar
except more tricking
opportunities and this one
requires better timing and
stuff... it's pretty easy to
die. Slower Blaze has a harder
time outrunning the wheel
things...

Huge Crisis Act 1 Bonus Ranges:
Time 2'10'00-2'30"00
(85,000-80,000 points), Trick
10,000-20,000 points Route:
Highest Notes: I've gotten huge
points even if I die... but the
highest route requires end of
rail and R button tricks that
can be easy to miss, especially
with Sonic, often like in Water
Palace well placed robots will
push you off the edge, just keep
trying. In general Blaze does
better, has good shortcuts. For
last part of level, go across
gap as described for Sonic's
third Special Gimmick in this
level. Crushing risk very real
but doesn't matter much... just
trick all springs Advanced and
rails and catch the high route.

Huge Crisis Act 2 Bonus Ranges:
Time 2'20"00-2'39"00 (85,000
points); Trick 10,000-12,000
points Route: Go straight on
first rail, don't go into area
with Sonic's first Special
Gimmick... don't catch hook...
other than that high. Notes:
Similar to Huge Crisis Act 1 but
much easier to get crushed and
to fall to your doom... yeah...

Altitude Limit Act 1 Bonus
Ranges: Time 3'10"00-3'20"00
(75,000 points), Trick
14,000-16,000 points 85,000
point Time Bonus: Under 2'50"00
Route:... the most direct...
there isn't much route variation
in Altitude Limit... except at
the end... but anyway pick the
easy way if you want... Notes:
Trick a lot... it's tight...
Blaze has a couple of shortcuts
only she can do. Do good
Advanced/Double Advanced tricks.

Altitude Limit Act 2 Bonus
Ranges: Time 3'10"00-3'20"00
(75,000 points); Trick 20,000
points 85,000 point Time Bonus:
Under 2'50"00 Route: Don't use
first Rocket Pad to go up
high... Notes: On spiky rail
part, boost, trick and jump
correctly... you will get lots
of Trick Points. At last bungee
instead of going right drop way
down and do a good Trick, or
better yet to shortcut just jump
over this bungee and head
downwards. It's easier to trick
a lot than trying to get a good
time in this Act and Zone in
general.

Dead Line Act 1 Bonus Ranges:
Time 2'40"00-2'59"00
(70,000-75,000 points); Trick
18,000-20,000 points 85,000
point Time Bonus: Under 2'20"00
Route: Highest (Choose up at all
cannons) Notes: Pretty easy,
don't use R button much if at
all since springs and other
things launch you to pretty
specific places and you don't
want to mess up trajectories.
Trick a lot. Remember to
constantly push B through series
of hoops. Be sure you know how
to operate all large rockets
correctly! Shortcuts make 85,000
limit very possible.

Dead Line Act 2 Bonus Ranges:
Time 2'40'00-3'19"00
(85,000-70,000 points); Trick
18,000-20,000 points Route:
First spring room, use the top
exit to go the reversed gravity
way... You need to also get into
the hard area where Sonic's
third Special Gimmick is in this
level... Blaze can get here
easier than Sonic, just ride the
rocket and then use R to hover
to the gap where the 1up and
Full Tension Bonus is, for Sonic
this needs practice. Notes:
Similar to act 1... A huge
amount of points is very
possible (I have reached the
119,000 mark and I think this is
the Act where the largest amount
of points is possible), not hard
to S-rank if you follow above
route. (Above route simplified
from earlier version of this
guide... basically I didn't dare
to explore much and the more
specific route I stated earlier
not necessary to S-rank.)


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ 12.b S
Ranking Bosses:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The
easiest way is to set the game
on Easy so you have two less
hits for Bosses... but you can
get S-ranks on Normal Mode to of
course... but not always, that
explanation is coming up... in
fact in not so earlier versions
of this guide I tried to
convince myself the impossible
to S-rank problem didn't
exist... but it does... For some
Bosses a lot of luck is
involved... but the bosses still
follow kind of a general
pattern, despite the fact all
bosses except the Extra Boss are
slightly too pretty darn random
in what attacks they will throw
at you! Well... sort of random,
I'll explain this better below.
This time what matters is Time
and Rings... in fact that's all
that matters... since the
maximum Time Bonus is 45,000
points and you need 50,000 to S
rank you need at least 5 Rings
(50 Rings in Extra because Rings
are only worth 100) to S-rank
ANY BOSS... and a fast time
often...

This confused me at first... but
I think I have it down now. Each
boss is not as random as you
might think... there are about 4
different overall attack
patterns each boss seems to
have, and the bosses vary in how
they try to foil your S- rank...
I decided to divide them into
two types, Time Variable and
Ring Stealer.

A Time Variable Boss has one
attack that takes a lot of time
and you can't hit the boss
during it... one major attack
pattern the boss throws few of
this type of attack or none at
you and you have relatively a
lot of chances to hit it in a
short period of time. The worst
attack pattern is the boss
throws more of these attacks at
you... the magic number seems to
be more than three... this
pattern takes more time and
there is more Ring loss risk...
so it's harder to S-rank. In
fact if you have the game set on
Normal, there is one attack
pattern where even if you hit
the boss every chance you get
and you have all Rings, S-rank
is impossible. Just play the
boss over and over again till
you get lucky and the boss
decides not to throw a lot of
bad attacks at you and make sure
you keep your Rings in case the
time limit is tight and to hit
the boss every chance you get.

I used to have a list of bosses
that are impossible to S-rank on
Normal Mode, but playing them
more I think ALL of them except
Final and Extra can be
sometimes.

For the Rings Stealer boss, it's
easy to get an S-rank time even
if you don't hit the boss every
chance you get, but they have a
lot of bad attacks that drain
your Rings and/or they are hard
to hit, so keeping Rings is even
more important with these bosses
than even hitting the boss every
chance you get. These bosses
are: Altitude Limit Final Zone
Extra Zone

Also of course having as many
Rings as possible is usually the
difference between an A and an
S, especially since in Boss
battles each Ring is worth 1,000
points except in Extra Zone, so
try not to get hit or if you do
pick up as many of the Rings
again as possible, best way to
repick up rings is to Spin-dash
into them very soon after you
drop them... don't get hit very
much since the more you are hit
the more Rings scatter. The
Extra Boss actually has a fixed
attack pattern... you don't have
to be as perfect as I claimed
earlier... but you do need at
least 50 Rings worth 100 points
in this Boss.

S-rank Boss Details: Boss is
determined by just Time and
Rings, so I'll just give those
details, Rings actually the
total number you can pick up,
each one worth 100 and Time
maximum of 45,000 going down
1,000 for every 2 seconds!.
Refer to the Boss Section for
most of the detail about how to
hit each Boss. New to version
1.44, I have classified the
bosses as a Time Variable or a
Ring Stealer... these are kind
of arbitrary... but if you have
played this enough, you will
understand, it's mentioned
earlier in this section. Didn't
put down points ranges... since
I give how many Rings you
need... just subtract 1,000 from
50,000 for every Ring and there
you go, the amount of points you
get for each time... it's that
simple... different from
Extra... but how many times do I
have to say that? For the Time
and Ring requirements, the first
time is the time limit that will
get you 4,500 points followed by
"with at least 5 Rings" because
well... you need at least 5
Rings to S-rank any boss... the
next range is the time
requirement if you have every
Ring in the Boss area and
remember the Rings are 1,000 for
every 2 seconds, so you can
figure out the number of Rings
for each time in between if you
are good at math... in fact
upper ranges are given for
convenience, anyone that can add
and multiply should figure out
the entire thing from just the
4,500 point time limit and how
many Rings on Field... Also,
just multiply the number of
Rings on Field by 1,000 and add
to 45,000 to get the maximum
number of points you can get for
all Bosses except Extra.


Also these ranges because of the
2 second intervals could still
be off by a second or two... so
I will fix it in the future if
this turns out to be the case, I
tried to get it as close as
possible without replaying the
boss so many times I go crazy...
if you spot something slightly
off let me know!

Remember, if you have this game
on Normal Mode especially, if
the boss does more than 3 of
it's longest attack where you
cannot hit the boss... can't
S-rank...

NOTE: I'm not sure, but I think
some of these minimum time
limits have more than a 2 second
interval... help me figure this
out! I'm still not 100% on all
of these intervals, but I do
know they are very close. It's
been a long time and nobody has
complained about off intervals,
so they are probably close
enough.

Leaf Rush Boss: Time and Ring
Requirements: Less than 1'44"00
with at least 5 Rings Less than
1'58"00 with all Rings Rings on
Field: 12 Notes: Time Variable.
Pretty easy boss if you are used
to ducking the attacks, a good
chance of being impossible to
S-rank on Normal Mode, this boss
likes to try to push you off the
edge.

Water Palace Boss: Time and Ring
Requirements: Less than 2'16"00
with at least 5 Rings Less than
2'30"00 with all Rings Rings on
Field: 12 Notes: Time Variable.
This boss is much less random
than most others and has almost
a fixed attack pattern. This one
you usually get by barely... it
almost always does three or four
belly slams, you can get a great
time sometimes and sometimes
impossible to S-rank but can be
hard to tell which case you are
dealing with because sometimes
with this boss even if it does
four belly slams you can S-rank
it, how often it does the water
draining attack seems to matter
also. Most of the time you are
near 2'30"00 so make sure to
keep Rings. It seems to me that
sometimes the water drain attack
is easier to duck than other
times, and when it's harder to
duck the boss takes more time in
general and you can't S-rank it
anyway, but I am not sure about
this also.

Mirage Road Boss: Time and Ring
Requirements: Less than 2'42"00
with at least 5 Rings Less than
2'56"00 with all Rings Rings on
Field: 12 Notes: Time Variable.
An easy boss to S-rank because
the attacks are easy to duck...
but at the same time pretty darn
random and sometimes does fly up
to the center more than 4 times
on Normal Mode.

Night Carnival Boss: Time and
Ring Requirements: Less than
0'50"00 with at least 5 Rings
Less than 1'10"00 with all Rings
Rings on Field: 15 Notes: Time
Variable Pretty easy to beat up
if you use the little vehicle...
you can get a great time much
less than a minute, the attack
to look out for is slamming the
ball into the ground, it doesn't
do this very often but sometimes
does.

Huge Crisis Boss: Time and Ring
Requirements: Less than 2'24"00
with at least 5 Rings Less than
2'32"00 with all Rings Rings on
Field: 9 Notes: Time Variable.
Harder than Leaf Storm Boss...
this boss likes to take your
Rings and it seems most of the
time fires missiles at you 4 or
more times... but occasionally
doesn't, which is your chance to
S-rank when set on Normal.

Altitude Limit Boss: Time and
Ring Requirements: Less than
3'14"00 with at least 5 Rings
Less than 3'34"00 with all Rings
Rings on Field: 15 Notes: Ring
Stealer. Careful... the bullet
attack often gets your Rings...
Boss quite random. It is easy to
get a 45000 Time Bonus... not so
easy keeping at least 5 Rings.

Dead Line Boss: Time and Ring
Requirements: Less than 1:36"00
with at least 5 Rings Less than
1:38"00 with all Rings Rings on
Field: 6 Notes: Semi-Time
Variable. Hit other character as
much as possible, avoid attacks,
keep all Rings (you need 5 and
there are only 6!), do last part
fast, etc... I've gotten under
one minute sometimes but
sometimes it's hard. Has Ring
Stealer characteristics also.

Final Boss (F-Zone, Unknown):
Time and Ring Requirements: Less
than 4'52"00 with at least 5
Rings Less than 5'00"00 with all
Rings Rings on Field: 9 Notes:
Ring Stealer. Easy to S-rank if
you can avoid the laser and
electric attack... but of course
avoiding the darn electricity
especially can be hard... but of
course if you avoid them you get
a chance to hit the boss. Also
the only time you can't make it
to the head in time before the
arm shakes is at 6 hits left so
you can save a lot of hanging
onto the swinging arm time by
being quick, but you can still
get a good S-rank time even if
you decide to hang on, you can't
save time like this when the
game is on Easy mode, but you
don't have to anyways. In fact
like Altitude Limit, getting a
good time is pretty easy once
you can duck lasers and
electricity... keeping Rings is
hard. Not as random as most
bosses. Playing it more, it's
still easy to S-rank if you get
hit by electricity/lasers a
couple of times and pick up all
rings afterwards.

Extra Boss (Exception): Time and
Ring requirements: Less than
4'36"00 with at least 50 Rings
Notes: Ring Stealer. If you time
hits correctly, surprisingly
easy to S-rank, actually pretty
forgiving... Basically try to
hit Boss before Ring-loss
Attacks are used... but you can
easily get an S-rank even
enduring 3 or 4 of these
attacks. The only non-random
Boss. Go for near 100 Rings at
end... you need at least 50 to
S-rank Extra, the better Ring
gatherer you are the better,
time lost is also Ring lost.
Additional time with more Rings
isn't very significant.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
12.c. A Perfect Game in One Go
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

A perfect game is IMO deleting
all Game Save Data or at least
playing through every single Act
and Boss once and still getting
all 7 Chaos Emeralds and all S-
Ranks. Refer to the earlier
sections in the S-rank miniguide
for tips on getting S-ranks. I
cam almost do this... there is
just one major problem... if the
game is set on Normal, on many
Bosses it might attack in a
certain pattern where if you hit
the boss every chance you get
and have all Rings, you can
still miss an S-rank. This makes
a perfect game based a little
upon Luck instead of pure skill.
Kind of sad... huh? So now, I
define the Perfect Game as
getting all S-ranks and Chaos
Emeralds on Normal Mode, but
allowing Death during Bosses if
the Boss starts throwing a lot
of bad junk at you or allowing A
ranks on Bosses if you didn't
get hit once and hit the boss
every chance you got, or you
have to have the game set on
Easy Mode to reduce hits on each
Boss by two. A REALLY Perfect
Game would be all Acts Maxed Out
Bonus (115,000 plus 10 for each
Ring, tips on how to do this are
in S-rank Acts section), all 7
Chaos Emeralds, and all Bosses
Max Points (even though a Max
for Extra is a little hard to
set, but for rest of bosses it's
easy to figure out as I
explained above) Or even more
evil, also having to hit ALL
Special Gimmicks and getting all
the Emeralds in each stage...
Why would I even think of such
horrible standards that are
probably Impossible... coming
from someone that wasn't happy
till I could easily beat Sonic
Advance 2 any character and get
all Special Rings and get the
Emeralds twice over also...
that's why... The first Perfect
Game I described above, All
S-ranks and all Chaos Emeralds,
allowing for death in Bosses set
on Normal is possible... I
almost did it and I will
probably do it soon... but the
other things... some crazy
person might try them, I don't
know...


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
13. Time Attack:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Unlocked
by beating the game with Sonic
or Blaze. You are not scored or
ranked, it's just to see how
fast you can get through an Act
or Boss. There are the 14 normal
Acts, except Sonic's acts don't
have Special Stage Gimmicks plus
4 Special Acts called Zone X.

The four Zone X Acts are very,
very similar to the 2-player
Mode in the Classic Sonic 3 for
Sega Genesis... something I used
to play A LOT alone...
memories... Basically, these are
very short mini acts that loop
back to the beginning again, the
beginning signified by a
Checkpoint (but you don't get
Tension from this Checkpoint).
There are no Rings in Zone X,
and the only Item Box is Full
Tension Boost. Zone X Act 1
looks like Leaf Storm, Zone X
Act 2 looks like Mirage Road,
Zone X Act 3 looks like Night
Carnival and Zone X Act 4 looks
like Huge Crisis. You have to
complete 5 Loops of the track in
order to record a new time, how
fast you have completed each Lap
appears in the lower left hand
corner of the touch screen.
There is also Zone 1-7 Bosses,
exactly the same as in gameplay.

Top times are recorded for each
Act and Boss for Sonic and Blaze
together. During the same
gameplay session when you replay
an Act again a small figure of
Sonic or Blaze that looks a lot
like a Boost Mode Afterimage
replays the fastest time you
went through an Act, turning off
your DS will delete the route
info that creates the afterimage
but of course your best time is
saved, it's a great way to see
exactly where you could be a
little faster or to compare and
see how much faster Sonic really
is than Blaze... but for Bosses
I guess they though the
afterimage thing would be too
distracting or something or most
likely that wouldn't be very
helpful... Note that when the
little afterimage appears there
might be significant slowdown of
the game.

Tips: The routes you take to
S-rank Acts are really good for
Time Attack, but try to trick
less, especially lay off the R
button unless it's a shortcut,
but not too less so you have
Boost which is of course is
important, and you can afford to
take more shortcuts, especially
with Blaze.

Bosses have to be hit as soon as
possible, don't worry as much
about keeping Rings since you
are not S-ranking... well,
unless the Boss hits you a
lot...

Since Bosses are random, it
takes Luck for the boss to dish
out an attack pattern that will
give you the lowest time, which
happens to be when the boss is
using the fewest of it's long
attacks where you can't hit the
boss.

Zone X has a lot of hidden or
semi-hidden Full Tension Boost
Item Boxes... Also Zone X seems
to be designed to balance out
Sonic and Blaze, so try for a
good time with both characters.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
14. Two Player Mode:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ If
someone else has a DS, you can
race against them through the
acts. I can't test this because
of the fact I don't know anyone
else with a DS, so I will
summarize the manual. If both
people have a Sonic Rush Cart,
one player creates a "room" and
waits for the second person to
join. If only one person has a
Sonic Rush Cart, then Player 1
selects Download play option, a
room is created. The person with
the other DS needs to choose "DS
Download Play" on the DS start
menu and wait for the game to
download. One player chooses to
be Sonic and the other Blaze.
The goal is to be the first one
to reach the end of the Act
before time runs out, the acts
you can play are ones both
players have reached. Your
character is on the top screen
and the bottom displays where
you and your opponent are in
relation to the end of the Act.
The Item Boxes in this mode are
different than in normal game
play:

Random Ring Bonus: Same as in
normal game play

Slow (half-circle with two
crescents): Slows down opponent
for a short period of time

Max Tension Bonus (One arrow
pointing up, the other down):
Your Tension Gauge becomes
Maximum while your opponent's
goes down.

Confusion (exclamation point):
Sends your opponent out of
control for a short period of
time

Attract (hand): Brings your
opponent to the area where you
are

I also read on the GameFAQs
messageboards that you can use
the R button near your opponent
as if you are tricking off a
spring and the game gives a hint
when you can do this. You can
also give up to 9 people at a
time either Leaf Storm Act 2
with Sonic or Water Palace Act 1
with Blaze by going to the
Options Menu and selecting
Download Demo, then the other
person can select "DS Download
Play" from the DS menu and wait
for the demo to download. These
people can play the demo until
they turn their DS off.


If there is anymore relevant
info about two player mode I
need to include, let me know. I
still haven't found another
player to play it against.

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
15. Sound Test:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Unlocked
by beating the game with Sonic
or Blaze, all of it unlocked
after beating the Extra Zone, it
appears in the Options menu.
Unlike in the Advance series and
Sonic Battle, the sound test
mostly is not descriptive but
instead a title is given to each
song. So this is a simple list
of Number, Title and where it is
played in the game if I know and
other random notes.

1. A New Day (Title Edit): Plays
   on the title screen and is a
   shortened
version of the Special Stage
music, #47.
2. What U Need is Remix: Options
   Menu, a remix of Dead Line
   Zone's music (#17
and 18 in Sound Test)
3. The Ordinary Zone: Map
   Screen, I know this is a
   remix of previous Sonic
music but I can't place it...
4. The Last Zone: Map Screen
   music when Final Zone is
   unlocked.
5. Right There, Ride On: Sonic's
   Leaf Storm.
6. Right There, Ride On Blaze
   Version: Blaze's Leaf Storm.
7. Back 2 Back: Sonic's Water
   Palace.
8. Back 2 Back Blaze Version:
   Blaze's Water Palace.
9. Ethno Circus: Sonic's Mirage
   Road.
10. Ethno Circus Blaze Version:
    Blaze's Mirage Road.
11. Ska Cha Cha: Sonic's Night
    Carnival.
12. Ska Cha Cha Blaze Version:
    Blaze's Night Carnival.
13. Jeh Jeh Rocket: Sonic's Huge
    Crisis.
14. Jeh Jeh Rocket Blaze
    Version: Blaze's Huge
    Crisis.
15. Get Edgy: Sonic's Altitude
    Limit.
16. Get Edgy Blaze Version:
    Blaze's Altitude Limit.
17. What U Need: Sonic's Dead
    Line
18. What U Need Blaze Version:
    Blaze's Dead Line.
19. Metal Scratchin': Normal
    Boss Music.
20. Metal Scratchin' (part 2):
    Normal Boss Pinch.
21. Vela-nova: Zone 7 Boss
    Music.
22. Vela-nova (Part 2): Zone 7
    Boss Pinch.
23. Bomber Barbara: Final Zone
    Boss Music.
24. Bomber Barbara (Part 2):
    Final Zone Pinch.
25. Groove Rush #4: Final Zone
    Clear.
26. Raisin' Me Up (Prologue):
    After Final Zone Cutscene
    Music, full version of
this song is # 118, After Extra
Zone Cutscene Music.
27. Medley Rush #1: Plays during
    the credits after beating
    Final Zone.
28. The Secret: Plays when you
    unlock Time Attack and Sound
    Test
29. I Wanna Breathe: Drowning
    Countdown Music.
30. One Up!: Extra Life Sound
    Effect.
31. Theme of Sonic's Event:
    Cutscene music, only in
    Sonic's story.
32. Theme of Blaze's Event:
    Cutscene music, only in
    Blaze's story.
33. Theme of Comical Event:
    Cutscene music, plays during
    Knuckle's
embarrassing mishap, Cream's
first appearance in Blaze's
story and when Amy appears...
34. Theme of Strained Event:
    Cutscene music, plays when
    something tense is
happening.
35. Theme of After the Fight:
    Cutscene music, plays after
    boss battles.
36. Theme of Warm Event:
    Cutscene music, plays at
    Cream's House in Sonic's
    story.
37. What U Need is PSG: Two
    Player Single Cart Battle...
    Options (PSG stuff
plays during 2 player single
cart battles, this music file
takes a much shorter amount of
time to download to the other DS
than the regular tracks)
38. Groove Rush #1 PSG: Two
    Player Single Cart Version
    of Groove Rush #1, 42
in this Sound Test.
39. Groove Rush #2: Game Over
    (based upon the Extra Zone
    music for some
reason...)
40. It's a New Record!: Plays
    when you get a new low time
    in Time Attack
41. Groove Rush #1: Act Clear
42. Groove Rush #3: Zone 7 Boss
    Clear.
43. Groove Rush #2 PSG: Two
    Player Single Cart Game
    Over44. After the Fight:
Cutscene right after Zone 7 Boss
beaten.
45. Blaze Appears: Cutscene when
    Blaze first appears in
    Sonic's story and same
place in Blaze's story.
46. Kick the Eggman: Cutscene
    during Blaze's story when
    she attacks Eggman after
Boss fights.
47. A New Day: Special Stage
    Music
48. A New Day Intermission:
    Beginning of Special Stage,
    Got a Chaos Emerald
49. Title Call: Sonic saying
    "Sonic Rush", plays on the
    Title Screen
50. Character Select: Blaze
    saying "Please select a
    character" on Character
Select screen
51. Character Call 1: Sonic
    saying "Sonic the Hedgehog"
    when you select him
52. Character Call 2: Blaze
    saying "Blaze the Cat" when
    you select her
53. Sonic 1: "Here We Go!"
54. Sonic 2: "Yes!"
55. Sonic 3: "Should we try this
    again?"
56. Sonic 4: "Is that it?"
57. Sonic 5: "Yes!"
58. Sonic 6: "Yeah!"
59. Sonic 7: "All Right!"
60. Sonic 8: "Cool!"
61. Sonic 9: "Okay!"
62. Sonic 10: "Oww!"
63. Sonic 11: "Let's do it!"
64. Blaze 1: "It's time!"
65. Blaze 2: "How's that?"
66. Blaze 3: "Never get on my
    bad side!"
67. Blaze 4: "My enemies always
    fall before me."
68. Blaze 5: "Hua!"
69. Blaze 6: "Yeah!"
70. Blaze 7: "Okay!"71. Blaze 8:
    "Huah!"
72. Blaze 9: "Hua!"
73. Blaze 10: Uhah!"
74. Blaze 11: "You can't escape
    me!"
75. Tails 1: "All right! Sonic's
    here!"
76. Tails 2: "Yes!"
77. Tails 3: "Huh?"
78. Tails 4: "Do your best
    Sonic!"
79. Tails 5: "Welcome back
    Sonic!"
80. Tails 6: "Bye Sonic!"
81. Tails 7: "Go get em' Sonic!"
82. Tails 8: "Nice Sonic!"
83. Tails 9: "No! Sonic!"
84. Tails 10: "You're almost
    there!"
85. Tails 11: "Alright Sonic!"
86. Tails 12: "Yes, you did it
    Sonic!"
87. Cream 1: "Hi Blaze!"
88. Cream 2: "Yes!"
89. Cream 3: "Huh?"
90. Cream 4: "Don't be long!"
91. Cream 5: "Nice to see you
    again Blaze!"
92. Cream 6: "Drop by soon
    Blaze."
93. Cream 7: "Do your best
    Blaze!"
94. Cream 8: "That's it!"
95. Cream 9: "Ohh!"
96. Cream 10: "Just a little
    more."
97. Cream 11: "You did it!"
98. Cream 12: "You did great
    Blaze!"
99. Audience 1: Trick Applause
100. Audience 2: Trick Applause,
     stronger
101. Audience 3: Trick Applause,
     very good
102. Audience 4: Disappointed
     Crowd, missed Bonus Game or
     Chaos Emerald in
Special Stage
103. Eggman 1: "You'll regret
     this!"
104. Eggman 2: "Oh
     hohohohohohoho!"
105. Eggman 3: "Ow!"
106. Eggman 4: "You!"
107. Eggman 5: "Take this!"
108. Eggman 6: "He he!"
109. Eggman 7: "Get ready to be
     schooled!"

(Rest of Sound Test is Extra
Zone specific, unlocked by
beating Extra Zone)

110. The Extra Zone: Extra Zone
     Unlocked
111. Anxiety: Cutscene before
     Extra Zone, part 1
112. A Flicker of Hope: Cutscene
     before Extra Zone, part 3
113. The Metamorphosis: Super
     Transformation Cutscene
114: Blaze Pinch!: Cutscene
before Extra Zone, part 2 and
cutscene during Extra Zone
Battle 115: Wrapped in Black:
Extra Zone Boss Music 116:
Wrapped in Black (Part 2): Extra
Zone Boss Pinch 117: Groove Rush
#5: Extra Zone Clear 118:
Raisin' Me Up: After Extra Zone
Cutscene Music 119: Medley Rush
#2: Extra Zone Credits Music, a
combo of music from the game
including the Extra Zone 120:
Character Call 3: Sonic saying
"Sonic and Blaze!" 121:
Character Call 4: Blaze saying
"Sonic and Blaze!" 122: Sonic
12: "See ya, Blaze!" 123: Sonic
13: "Blaze, it's closing in on
you!" 124: Sonic 14: "I got it!"
125: Blaze 12: "Again." 126:
Blaze 13: "I know!" 127: Blaze
14: "Sonic, it's heading right
for you!"


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
16. Unlock Features:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Unlock
Blaze: Beat the Zone 1 Boss with
Sonic.

Unlock Time Attack and Sound
Test: Beat the game with Sonic
or Blaze. (Note, some places say
you need to beat Extra Zone to
get Zone X, not true, Zone X is
always in Time Attack.)

Unlock Extra Zone: Get all Chaos
Emeralds with Sonic and beat the
Final Zone with Sonic and Blaze,
doesn't matter which one of
those two you do first, the
Extra Zone option will appear in
the Character Select Menu.

Unlock Rest of Sound Test: Beat
Extra Zone.


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
17. Spoilers:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ I
decided to keep this section
permanent. This is for people
who want to know...

For the entire story, consult my
Sonic Rush Game Script on
GameFAQs.com

Sonic really doesn't find out
much during his story about who
Eggman Nega is except toward the
end he is from Blaze's world and
that she has been hanging around
Cream and when he finally meets
Blaze finds out she doesn't
really appreciate help much.
Tails keeps freaking out about
the worlds coming together and
is concerned. Amy is mostly
jealous and sees Blaze as a
potential threat just because
she is a female about Sonic's
age, but at the end finds out
she is not after Sonic and helps
her. Knuckles just gets mad
because he thinks Blaze was
lying and she really had Chaos
Emeralds, hits some rocks and
becomes buried under them and is
embarrassed that Sonic had to
get him out. Blaze through her
story has begun to trust Cream a
little more but still insists on
getting the Sol Emeralds
herself, it is her
responsibility. It is hinted
that the Sol Emeralds are like
Chaos Emeralds when Knuckles
senses their energy and thinks
they are Chaos Emeralds, and
Nega suggests that he has
something to do with Eggman
stealing the Sol Emeralds. Blaze
also knows that the worlds are
coming together because Eggman
took the Sol Emeralds from her
world and her world is following
them into Sonic's, in general
Blaze seems to know more about
this than other people and it's
really not very clear why.

At the end of Zone 7, things get
more interesting when Blaze's
stubbornness leads to a fight
between Sonic and Blaze.

Near the Final Zone the story
gets confusing a little and
differs depending on whether you
are on Sonic or Blaze's story.
In Sonic's story, Blaze is
injured after her and Sonic's
fight and is too weak to help
Sonic battle Eggman Nega one
last time. The Final Boss is a
Eggman Mech and a falling
platform scene. But in Blaze's
story, Eggman kidnaps Cream and
insists on saving her herself
because Eggman threatened that
she better come alone and by
this time Blaze has started to
see Cream in a different light.
Eggman wanted to isolate Blaze
because by this time she had
gotten all 7 of the Sol Emeralds
back from him.

Sonic's ending is just Sonic
defeating Eggman Nega, then
getting chased by Amy. The
Ending Credits are Sonic
Advance-style sprites of Amy
chasing Sonic with her hammer,
at the end, he stops, but looks
very worried and spin-dashes off
because Amy is now holding the
Big Hammer from Sonic Advance 3.

Blaze's ending is Blaze
defeating the mech, sifting
through the rubble trying to
find Cream and worried. Cream is
safe, she falls from the sky
into Blaze's arms and they both
admit they are friends now.
During the ending credits a
Sonic Advance style Cream
happily chases a now smiling
Sonic Advance style Blaze.

The Final Endings are not a
resolution at all. If you go
back to the Map Areas at this
time, the amount Blaze's World
has creped into Sonic's is at
94% and dreary music is playing
and almost all of the map is
dark and wavy. The world can't
stay like that! That is why you
need to get the Chaos Emeralds
and unlock the Extra Ending!

The Extra Ending starts with a
nice 3D Cutscene of Blaze
looking up at a swirling dark
cloud sky. She doesn't know what
to do now, since she got the Sol
Emeralds back, the worlds
stopped coming together even
more, but they are not apart yet
either, and she can't get back.
This is where Eggman and Eggman
Nega come in saying Blaze
doesn't understand the Sol
Emeralds are the key and their
true power. Like any true
villains, they explain what is
going on first. The two worlds
are connected of course. The
Chaos and Sol Emeralds are like
magnets and can either attract
or repel each other. The two
Eggmans are working together,
one set of Emeralds is fine, but
both sets together would be
enough power to destroy the
worlds. Eggman Nega doesn't care
what happens to his world, both
really don't, they just want to
be able to use the power of both
sets in one world to create the
Ultimate Eggmanland. Blaze is
attacked by a new mecha, and the
power of the Sol Emeralds leaves
and they loose their luster. But
Eggman Nega is confused why the
Emeralds are not causing an
explosive reaction but Eggman
knows why, Sonic has control of
the Chaos Emeralds. As if on
cue, Sonic comes in and Eggman
threatens to use the power of
the Sol Emeralds to defeat
Sonic. Sonic sees Blaze is hurt.
Blaze is sad because she let the
Eggmans take the power of the
Sol Emeralds, leaving them
drained. But then Sonic says it
will be okay, and Cream, Tails,
Knuckles and Amy arrive for
support. Like when Perfect Chaos
Drained the Chaos Emeralds in
Sonic Adventure, the Sol
Emeralds just need the power of
Friendship to regain their
power, something that Blaze just
learned about after being alone
all of her life. That is when
the Emerald start glowing
again...

Yes indeed, Sonic turns Super
with the Chaos Emeralds, and
Blaze uses the Sol Emeralds.
Super Blaze turns pink and gets
longer hair, her jacket turns
red and her cuffs now have a
flame design. The Extra Boss
starts off with a Doomsday
beginning and is Super Sonic vs.
Eggman. Like any other Super
Battle you loose Rings and in
fact Sonic and Blaze share
Rings. You start on the top
screen and you dash through a
meteor herd trying to grab rings
and avoiding a laser that slows
you down. Red meteors contain
rings if you break them.
Eventually you get a better view
of the mecha. It looks like
Sonic Advance 2's Extra with
arms. One arm shoots out white
things that have lasers coming
out of them, other one green
energy balls. The white things
are harder to hit, but you
damage the boss by hitting them
into the boss just like in Sonic
Advance 2. There is also a
missile attack that actually
makes Sonic lose rings, and a
laser sword that slows him down.
After Super Sonic hits it three
times, it goes into a main thing
and it pops it out the bottom
upside down and with Eggman Nega
piloting it and you have to
fight it with Blaze. Unlike
Super Sonic, Super Blaze has a
fire ball attack she has to
charge up before using, you can
steer her a little during the
charge process but you cannot
cancel it. This time it attacks
with a Scratch Attack, an arm
that can make her lose rings,
and can even rip a hole in space
time that takes rings and is
very hard to get out of. Sonic
has to fight it 3 times and
Blaze 2.

The final blow is delivered by
Sonic and Blaze together. Then
there is a scene where they are
looking at each other. Blaze
cannot stay, the Chaos and Sol
Emeralds should not be in the
same world. Sonic says something
to Blaze, it's not clear what at
this point, then they promise to
see each other again. Blaze
hesitantly reaches out her arm
toward Sonic. He grabs her hand,
and then in a flash of white
light Sonic and Blaze move away,
Blaze still reaching out a
little. Super Blaze is now
flying through her world
remembering what Sonic said to
her before leaving his world.
Sonic said that Blaze now has
the power, everything will be
alright in his world if he has
control of the Chaos Emeralds,
and now that Blaze can control
the Sol Emeralds he is confident
she can now protect the Sol
Emeralds from being stolen
again.

Then the Credits roll. At the
end of the credits is a Sonic
Advance-style picture cutscene.
Cream looks so sad that Blaze
had to leave. Sonic sees her and
whispers something in her ear,
we don't know what. Then Cream
looks happier and looks up while
rays of light shine down.

The End.


And now we know Sonic does see
Blaze again... the story will
continue with a new game... yay
and all...

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
18. Nostalgia, again!:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ Yeah,
Nostalgia Trip for Sonic Advance
3 was a huge section... and sure
enough there are things from
other, mostly newer games in
this game... but if Sonic
Advance 3 and Sonic Heroes are
the modern Knuckles Chaotix...
this game is newer Sonic 3 and
Knuckles... and here is why...
and as of Nov. 2006 even some
new insights...

Sonic 3 and Sonic & Knuckles are
technically two separate games
for the Genesis... but
originally they were suppose to
be just one game... but the game
was too big... so the game was
split in two... Sonic and
Knuckles has a unique game cart
design allowing for another game
to be attached to it. Attaching
Sonic 1 especially or other
games got you Blue Sphere which
is basically endless Special
Stages... but attaching Sonic
and Knuckles to Sonic 3 got you
one huge game... with some
unique qualities... basically
Sonic 3 and Knuckles continues
the Death Egg Saga started in
Sonic 2... the huge Death Egg
ship crashes on Angel Island,
causing the Island to fall.
Super Sonic comes into the
island to investigate... when a
mysterious Echidna steals his
Chaos Emeralds... So this game
introduced Knuckles as a
character... won't go into
detail, but there are two
distinct stories as Sonic and
Knuckles... and if you have the
two games attached to each other
then there are actually 14
Special Stages, the first 7 in
the Sonic 3 half of the game,
then later on the Super Emeralds
appear... are they powered up
Chaos Emeralds or new Emeralds?
Who knows... but these new
Emeralds bring about Hyper
Forms... Sonic and Knuckles was
also the first game with an
Extra Zone... the infamous
Doomsday... Yeah, I'm being
sketchy... I'm trying to keep
this brief, but here is how
Sonic Rush is similar to Sonic 3
and Knuckles:

New Emeralds... in Sonic 3 and
Knuckles these were the Master
Emerald and the Super Emeralds,
this game Sol Emeralds

Two main stories... The
Sonic/Tails story was quite
different than Knuckles, and the
same is true for Sonic Rush with
Blaze and Sonic.

Mysterious new rival to Sonic...
Just like Knuckles in Sonic and
Knuckles, it is not clear in
this game who Blaze is or even
what side she is on. A
misunderstanding leads to the
two fighting. Also Knuckles and
Blaze are both Guardians Loners
and Eggman stole what they were
guarding (Master Emerald/Sol
Emeralds respectively)

Some Acts and Zones are similar
to Acts and Zones in Sonic 3 and
Knuckles. Leaf Storm sort of
resembles Angel Island. Water
Palace resembles Hydro City
quite a bit. Mirage Road is the
first Egypt themed 2D Zone since
Sandopolis. Night Carnival's
name is just Carnival Night
reversed... Huge Crisis... ehhh,
I think it resembles more recent
Zones more... Altitude Limit in
a stretch could be Sky
Sanctuary... Dead Line resembles
Death Egg, Final Boss is a huge
robot that attacks with hands
and lasers... and Extra Zone
resembles Doomsday more than any
other recent Extra Zone that
resembles Doomsday does....
Yeah...

Zone X in Time Attack is quite
similar concept to Sonic 3's Two
Player Mode.


Sonic the Hedgehog 2006... a new
game coming in November that
will feature the return of
Blaze... from what I have heard
this game might also borrow
certain concepts from Sonic 3
and Knuckles... we'll just have
to wait and see... or read the
leaked scripts, which I BTW am
not doing...


Other more recent games and even
Sonic X stuff is from:


Sonic Adventure: Tails' Workshop
The Extra Ending before the Boss
Fight is similar to Extra Ending
before boss fight in this game.

Sonic Adventure 2: Robots in
Huge Crisis Zone are GUN
military robots from this game.

Sonic Advance 2: Gameplay most
similar to this game that
introduced R button Tricks,
Boost Mode and rails for all
characters. Most Small Animals
from Sonic Advance series in
General. Zone Map and symbols
for each Zone in Time Attack
quite similar to symbols for
Zones in this game. Extra Zone
is very similar to Sonic's part
of Extra Zone in Sonic Rush.
Just like this game introduced
Cream to the Sonic series before
she appeared in Sonic Heroes,
this game seems to have
introduced Blaze before she
appears in her first console
game, Sonic the Hedgehog, 2006.

Sonic Advance 3: Blaze's part of
Extra Zone and Extra Zone
background resembles Sonic
Rush's Extra Zone. One Enemy
from this game made it into
Altitude Limit.

Sonic Heroes: Most Enemies are
from this game or very similar
to Enemies from this
game.Checkpoints, Item Boxes and
even Rainbow Hoops are styled
the same.

Sonic X: Cream's House Cream not
calling all the male characters
Mister? Main Plot about two
dimensions coming together with
grave consequences. The voice
actors...

~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
19. My Current High Scores:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ A
section I put at the end because
I didn't want to renumber
everything... Basically I am
more of a person that likes to
get high-scores than time-
trialing things. Here are my
current high-scores for all of
Sonic and Blaze's Acts. As you
can see I have chronic trouble
with Leaf Storm... but anyway
can you beat my scores?

Sonic:
Zone 1 (Leaf Storm):
Act 1: 107,710
Act 2: 107,098

Zone 2 (Water Palace):
Act 1: 110,880
Act 2: 111,670

Zone 3 (Mirage Road):
Act 1: 112,740
Act 2: 115,230

Zone 4 (Night Carnival):
Act 1: 111,370
Act 2: 113,990

Zone 5 (Huge Crisis):
Act 1: 118,450
Act 2: 110,950

Zone 6 (Altitude Limit):
Act 1: 110,020
Act 2: 109,032

Zone 7 (Dead Line):
Act 1: 116,972
Act 2: 119,275

Blaze:
Sonic:
Zone 1 (Night Carnival):
Act 1: 111,800
Act 2: 114,770

Zone 2 (Leaf Storm):
Act 1: 106,240
Act 2: 109,026

Zone 3 (Mirage Road):
Act 1: 112,910
Act 2: 111,120

Zone 4 (Water Palace):
Act 1: 113,270
Act 2: 113,300

Zone 5 (Altitude Limit):
Act 1: 111,140
Act 2: 110,822

Zone 6 (Huge Crisis):
Act 1: 118,660
Act 2: 110,980

Zone 7 (Dead Line): Act 1:
116,538 Act 2: 119,881 (so close
to 120,000...)


~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~
20. Questions?:
~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~

Got Questions? E-mail me,
angnix@gmail.com I will answer
them if they are not stupid. I
will only answer questions
relating to the FAQS, do not
e-mail me and try to start a
personal relationship or
something, I will not respond to
such e-mails.


 ###                   +-X+X#,
   ##.  ###              ######-
   =#,=#######;          .###+, 
   ##.##.   .x###=       X##=   
  x# ##          #      =##  ;  
  # ##.      ######    .#  #####
  #- #.      ##   x#+  ## ##    
  ## ##   ##XX   , =##=####;    
 =######  ## -   . =#   #    =  
 ##     ##  # #+                
 #  ;,.  =###;x  ..             
 ##          #-                 
    #  .###+   =#               
    ## ##-  ###x#           -###
   .# ,#.,,-# -## +###     #X.xX
   =# ##   -#   #.#####,   ###x#
   -# #-#  =#  .## , #.   .#  # 
   x##+ #  .#=# - =#=  #;##+  ;#
    ##  #   #,   ##= -  #==     
    ##  ##  ##   # +#  +#+  +Xx 
 #  +#   #.  #  #++         #-,#
 #x  #+  =#  #   -######+=##### 
 ##  x##+ =#  # .#+ +x+x####  ##
##x  =#  X  +#X##x#+## ;xx=+=;##
#+++===-+#=## x= #=X##-#+ .#  #.
#####, #   ###    # ;#x=++=xX# +
##   # ## ##    xx##+#==++xX###=
  xxx   #  #+X##x#-  x=+++==-+x#

  ,#                            
 +###                   .. +X   
    #x  #    .#  ####     ###X##
 , ## .,#     # #x  #    #    ##
 ;#x.-= #     ##-   #  =#X  #X##
#x##-###  #+   ;#     #### #x###
 x;      #   .x     =x     ## # 
      ##    #
      =#=x#X




(c) Angnix (Angela Petersen)
2005-2006

