   ___________                  
  /         /__________   ______
 /     ____/ |        /   /     
 \     \     |_     _/   / /\   
  \     \      |   |    / /__\  
   \     \     |   |   /  ____  
 ___\     \    |   |  /  /   |  
/          \   |   | /  /    |  
\__________/  /____|/__/     |__
     _____________              
  _--------````             ````
  /_____  ______  __________ ___
 / | __/ /  _  / /  _   _  //  _
 /  | |_  | |_| | | | | | | || |
 /   |___| |_____| |_| |_| |_||_
    /_______------_____         
     '''''--------______________


Star Fox: Command Walkthrough
Written by: Black Turtle-
blackturtle2112@gmail.com

If you see any errors, even
spelling mistakes, please email
me to let me know. Any
additional questions will also
be answered through email.


================================

1. Version History
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. General Tips and Strategies
5. Character Guide
6. Enemy Guide
7. Boss Guide
8. Multiplayer Guide
9. Walkthrough
    9.i) Training Level 1
    9.ii) Training Level 2
    9.iii) Training Level 3
    9.iv) Training Level 4
    9.1) Ending #1: Emperor Angl
  8.11) Mission 1: The Adventure
  8.12) Mission 2: Reunion with 
  8.13) Mission 3: Fog of War
  9.14) Mission 4: Oikonny Strik
  9.15) Mission 5: Beneath the W
 9.16) Mission 6: We Meet Again
  9.17) Mission 7: The Anglar Em
9.2) Ending #2: Pigma's Revenge
  9.21) Mission 1: The Adventure
  9.22) Mission 2: Falco to the 
  9.23) Mission 3: Falco's Decis
9.24) Mission 4: Pigma's Revenge
9.3) Ending #3: Lucy and Krystal
  9.31) Mission 1: The Adventure
  9.32) Mission 2: Reunion with 
 9.33) Mission 3: Fog of War 2
  9.34) Mission 4: Oikonny Strik
  9.35) Mission 5: Father and Da
  9.36) Mission 6: Lucy and Krys
 9.4) Ending #4: Good-bye, Fox
  9.41) Mission 1: The Adventure
  9.42) Mission 2: Reunion with 
 9.43) Mission 3: Fog of War 2
  9.44) Mission 4: Oikonny Strik
  9.45) Mission 5: Father and Da
9.46) Mission 6: Andross' Legacy
 9.47) Mission 7: Good-bye, Fox
10. Endings
11. FAQs
12. Legal Information
14. Thank-yous


==============================1.

Version 0.1: Submitted August
31, 2006- First version of the
guide, Introduction, Controls,
General Tips and Strategies,
Training Missions and First
Playthrough finished. Character
section and Enemy section
started

Version 0.25: Submitted
September 1, 2006- Added some
enemies, bosses, FAQs, credits,
endings 2 and 3. Fixed the
bottom of my maps. Apparantly
GameFAQs doesn't use Unicode, so
my overscores came out as
question marks. Fixed a couple
of minor erors throughout the
guide. Added ASCII banner to the
top. Cleaned up enemy section by
arranging them in alphabetical
order. Added sites with
permission to host the guide

Version 0.4: Submitted September
6, 2006- Some more enemies,
bosses and pilots added. Ending
#4 also added. I realized that I
forgot to put the multiplayer
guide in the last version so I
added it here. More polishing.


================================

Years ago, a scientist named Dr.
Andross became obsessed with
controlling the Lylat system. He
launched wave after wave of
attack fighters from the remote
planet of Venom and ordered them
to strike Planet Corneria -- the
heart of the Lylat system.

However, four brave pilots who
made up a squadron known as Star
Fox finally put an end to the
doctor's mad ambitions. Andross
himself was defeated by the
leader of Star Fox, a brilliant
pilot named Fox McCloud.

In the time that followed, Venom
became known as a quarantine
planet. Due to that reputation
-- and the frequent patrols
carried out by members of the
Cornerian military -- it has
been years since anyone set foot
on the planet's surface.

But after a period of quiet,
Venom struck back with
devastating attacks on the Lylat
system. Any and all attempts at
resistance were brushed aside,
and soon all cities came under
the grip of this new, terrifying
enemy.

The occupiers were known as the
Anglars, and operated under the
control of the Anglar Emperor.
Their headquarters were located
in the toxic Venom Sea, a vast
ocean so inhospitable that it
was believed no living thing
could survive there.

The members of Star Fox, the
heroic and famous squadron that
had come to Lylat's aid in her
hour of need, had disbanded.
Each pilot was living a new
life, and it would prove a
difficult task to bring the
former team members back
together.

Fox McCloud, the team's leader
was wandering the galaxy with
his friend ROB, a navigation
robot that he inherited after
his father's passing. Fox used
this time to tie up a few loose
ends and also ponder the course
his life had taken.

The Cornerian military hero
General Pepper fell ill, and
could no longer lead as he once
did. He recommended that Peppy
Hare, Star Fox team member and
father figure to Fox, be
promoted and given command of
all Cornerian forces.

Brash pilot Falco Lombardi lived
as a loner. He drifted from job
to job, searching for the same
thrill he felt as a member of
Star Fox. But his existence was
mostly an empty one... something
that annoyed him more than he
would admit.

The technical brains behind the
team, and Fox's closest friend,
was the good natured Slippy
Toad. Slippy met and fell in
love with a girl named Amanda,
and decided to leave the world
of flying and start a new life
with his beloved fiancee.

Star Wolf, the true rivals of
Star Fox, continued to be
involved in dirty dealings.
Their work soon caught the
attention of the Cornerian
military, who put a massive
bounty on their heads.

And finally, Krystal. The lone
female of the group, she had
fought beside Fox and fell in
love with him -- much against
her better judgement and
professional concern. Her love
was returned, however, and the
two promised to remain together
always.

But Fox was quite wary of the
danger that haunted pilots in
the elite Star Fox squadron, and
he eventually forced Krystal to
leave the team. Heartbroken and
ashamed, she fled from Fox and
vanished soon after. No one
knows what became of her...

Now, the past has come to haunt
them all. Unwilling or unable to
face his former team, Fox has
chosen to take on the entire
Anglar armada by himself. Can he
do it? Will the team put aside
their differences and reunite?
All Lylat waits for the
answers...

================================

Menu Mode:

Touch Pad:

- Use your stylus to navigate th
on the touch pad



Map Mode:

L, R, A, B, X, Y and D-Pad:

- Used to bring up the end of tu
- Also used to cancel end of tur

Touch Pad:

- Used to bring up ship statisti
- Used to clear Fog of War at th
- Click on a friendly ship and d
- Click on the Great Fox and dra
missiles if any are in stock
- Double tap when all desired st

Start:

- Pauses the game and brings up 



Dog-fighting Mode:

L, R, A, B, X, Y and D-Pad:

- Fire lasers. Hold to charge la

Touch Pad:

- The stylus will control the ma
the stylus across the pad to
steer the ship.
- Double tap the top half of the
to boost, and double tap the
bottom half to brake.
- Quickly slide the stylus from 
the most important manouver in
the game.
- Tap the loop button on the tou
- Tap the u-turn button to perfo
- Drag the B onto the radar sect
location. Alternatively, you can
double tap the B to drop a bomb
in front of your ship

Start:

- Pauses the game and brings up 


=========================4. Gene

Basics:

Battles are divided into 2
parts, strategy on Map Mode, and
dogfighting in battle mode.
During each "turn", you are
given the ability to move each
of your fighters a certain
distance on the map, with the
object being to intercept enemy
fighters and missiles before
hitting Great Fox, and to
reclaim allied bases from enemy
Motherships. After moves have
been made by you and the
computer, any encounters will be
listed and you can choose the
order in which to fight them.

On the map, you can see bases
and enemy icons. Your squadron
is represented by small versions
of their ships and typically
start near the Great Fox. Enemy
ships are represented by small
red dots. Red boxed areas
represent impassable terrain
which can't be flown over, but
missiles may be shot over them.
You will see small arrows next
to enemy blips, representing
their speed. One < is a slower
enemy that won't move as far per
turn. Two << are faster enemies
that can move a fair distance in
one turn. Three <<< are very
fast enemies that you should
watch for.

Enemy missiles are represented
by large red missiles, which
have a dotted line in the path
of their trajectory. When
strategy choices are made and
entered, the missile will end up
at the end of that dotted line
unless you intercept it along
it's path. Missiles will be
launched occasionally from enemy
missile launchers.

Enemy Motherships have attacked
and occupied many allied bases.
They can either produce new
units, or launch missiles at
Great Fox. Taking these bases
gives you additional turns to
accomplish the mission with.
Enemy controlled bases are shown
with red pyramids, and friendly,
unoccupied bases are shown with
blue pyramids.

Powerups are littered across the
map. Circles made up of
triangles pointing inward are
Supply items. They recharge your
shields. Yellow missiles allow
you to stock Great Fox with
missiles which allow you to wipe
out a group of enemy fighters
without having to dogfight them.

The other part is battle mode,
which is the result of an
encounter. In this mode, you fly
your ship around a small area
which has enemy units all
around. There are also missile
encounters, which have you fly
through a series of beacons to
destroy an enemy missile before
it hits Great Fox.

You will have a timer which
represents the fuel used when
dogfighting. As you encounter
more enemies and spend more time
dogfighting, you lose fuel. If
you run out of fuel, you lose a
fighter. Killing 5 enemies or
flying through rings while in
battle help replenish your fuel
and there are often fuel
powerups on the map screen


Defeating Enemy Motherships:

First, you must clear the area
of core enemies. These are shown
on the screen before you enter
the engagement. Watch out for
the beam shot from the
Mothership, as it can cause
quite a bit of damage.

After defeating core enemies and
acquiring their cores, ROB will
message you saying that you must
fly through the beacons and
execute a roll to destroy the
Mothership. Make sure to fly
through each of the red boxes
and perform a barrel roll before
hitting the Mothership. I find
it easier to roll at the
beginning of the sequence,
because rolling here doesn't
deplete your boost gauge, and
the first few beacons are easier
to fly through.

Flying through the crosshairs of
the red squares gives you 1
extra second to your timer for
each beacon.


Destroying Enemy Missiles:

To catch the fast moving
missiles, you need to follow in
the missile's "slip stream", the
area of space where the missile
has passed through, in order to
catch it. Fly through the red
squares until you are within
range of the missile.

Once in range, either lock-on
until the bracket turns into a
diamond, or fire away if your
ship has no lock-on feature. Be
careful to continue flying
through the red boxes as you
shoot the missile down. Hurry up
though, because each red box
increases your speed, and soon
it will be nearly impossible to
hit each box.

If you fail to catch the
missile, it gets an extra boost
of distance to the Great Fox, so
be careful not to lose track of
it.



===============================5

This section is incomplete right
now

This game took a step away from
the previous Star Fox games by
letting you fly as many
different characters. Their
profiles can be viewed in-game
after you fly a mission using
that character and complete the
game with any ending after that
mission.


--------------------------------

"The leader of the Star Fox
squadron. His bravery and sense
of justice is strong, although
he can be too serious at times.

Ship: Arwing II
Laser: Single
Lock: Single
Bomb: 2
Shield: 6 squares
Boost: 4 squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

Fox McCloud is the main
character of the Star Fox
series. He made his debut on the
SNES in 1993 and has starred in
3 other Star Fox games (64,
Adventure and Assault) as well
as being a fighter in both Super
Smash Bros. games.

He was orphaned as a teenager
when his father, James McCloud
died fighting the forces of the
evil Andross with Pigma Dengar
and Peppy Hare as the original
Star Fox team. Pigma betrayed
James and Peppy, but Peppy
managed to escape and took care
of Fox. After that, Fox took the
reigns of the Star Fox team by
recruiting Slippy Toad and Falco
Lombardi. They took on and
defeated Andross' forces in the
original Star Fox.

Star Fox 64 was a remake of the
original game which helped
expand on the story and include
the rival squadron Star Wolf.

Fox's GameCube debut took place
8 years after the events of Star
Fox 64. After 4 years an
incident on Titania saw Andross
reincarnated and Falco left the
group. 4 years after that, the
events of Star Fox Adventure
took place, with Fox and company
saving the planet Sauria from
Andross' evil scheme. Krystal
joined the team, and Falco came
back during these events and the
group was once again a force to
be reckoned with

Shortly after, Andrew Oikonny
rounded up the remainder of
Andross' army in a last ditch
effort to conquer Lylat,
starting off the second GameCube
title Star Fox Assault. Fox
would soon discover that Oikonny
was the least of their troubles
after discovering a new alien
threat that had the potential to
destroy civilization entirely!
Star Fox eventually defeated the
Aparoid queen with the help of
Star Wolf, but payed the price
of losing their flagship, the
Great Fox.

In the years following the
Aparoid invasion, the Star Fox
team gradually started to break
up, with Falco heading off on
his own again, Peppy replacing
General Pepper as leader of the
Cornerian army, Slippy finding a
soul mate in Amanda and Krystal
being kicked out of the group by
Fox to keep her away from the
dangers of the job. This is
where we begin Command.

Fox's ship is a good choice as
it is versatile. It is a very
average ship, which means that
it can be used effectively for a
variety of tasks. His single
laser is pretty weak, so charged
shots are the way to go. He has
pretty decent shields and a
large boost gauge. He can also
hold 2 bombs. Fox is suited best
to fast enemies, and enemies
that shoot alot of lasers and
require alot of rolling.

--------------------------------

"A member of the Star Fox team,
and Fox's close friend. Known
for his brains rather than his
flying, he develops most of the
team's weapons."

Ship: Bullfrog
Laser: Dual Plasma
Lock: N/A
Bomb: 3
Shield: 8 squares
Boost: 2 squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

Slippy is a veteran of the Star
Fox team, and has been in it
since Fox took over. He isn't
the greatest pilot, but is good
in a scrap. His main
contribution to the team has
been his technical skills. He
functions as the team's mechanic
and weapons developer. He
designed the Landmaster tank and
the Blue Marine submarine.

He is a loyal friend to Fox, and
always willing to help out.
Sometimes his eagerness to
please gets him in trouble, but
his friends are always there to
bail him out. He recently fell
in love with Amanda, and is
planning to marry her.

Slippy's ship is a powerful, but
slow ship that can take a
beating, but can't get away from
one. His plasma guns more than
make up for his lack of laser as
they really pack a punch. He
also has a capacity for 3 bombs,
which makes him an ideal choice
against slow-moving enemies or
bosses. Be careful of his low
boost bar, as it means that you
only have a limited barrel roll.


--------------------------------

"A member of Star Fox. He's
brash and headstrong, but his
peerless piloting makes him
irreplaceable"

Ship: Sky Claw
Laser: Single
Lock: Multi
Bomb: 1
Shield: 4 squares
Boost: 4 squares
Time Bonus: 3 seconds

Falco has been in Star Fox since
Fox took over the group, and has
been a key asset to the group
since then. His piloting skills
are on par with Fox's, but his
brash, headstrong nature make
him a bit of a liability. He has
been in all of the Star Fox
games, and also made an
appearance in Super Smash Bros.
Melee.

Falco's ship is best suited to
taking out groups of enemies.
It's multi-lock makes up for the
lack of bombs and firepower, and
can make short work out of
swarming enemies. His boost also
makes him a good choice against
nimble enemies.


--------------------------------

"A former member of Star Fox.
She's strong and kind, but at
times too stubborn for her own
good."

Ship: Cloud Runner
Laser: Twin
Lock: Single
Bomb: 1
Shield: 6 squares
Boost: 3 squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

Krystal made her first
appearance in Star Fox
Adventures as a powerful yet
kind telepath who wanted to help
the dinosaurs living on Sauria.
She met Fox and soon fell in
love with him. She replaced
Peppy as the fourth pilot in
Star Fox Assault and worked with
the group for some time, before
Fox forced her to quit in order
to keep her out of harms way.
Krystal felt hurt and angry by
this and disappeared. She has a
friendship with Lucy, and has
Panther of Star Wolf vying for
her affections whenever they
meet.

Krystal's ship is a good multi-
purpose fighter, with average
stats. Her twin lasers and
single lock allow her to take
out a variety of enemy ships and
her above average shield can
help her get through these
encounters.


--------------------------------

"Only daughter of peppy Hare.
She doted on her father and
longed to be a pilot. Currently
teaches astrophysics on
Fichina."

Ship: Sky Bunny
Laser: Dual Plasma
Lock: Single
Bomb: 1
Shield: 4 squares
Boost: 3 squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

Lucy makes her Star Fox debut
here. She is the daughter of
original Star Fox member Peppy
Hare. Her mother died when she
was young, and she longed to
follow in her father's
footsteps. When she grew older,
she gave up that dream and began
teaching astrophysics on the
planet Fichina. She is friends
with Krystal.

The Sky Bunny is probably my
favourite ship. It has the
Bullfrog's strongest asset,
Plasma guns, but avoids the
Bullfrog's greatest weaknesses
by including a single lock and
better boosts. It only has 1
bomb though, so you need to use
bombs wisely with her.


--------------------------------

"Slippy's girlfriend. The met
two years ago, and she fell in
love with Slippy at first sight.
Or so the story goes..."

Ship: Tadpole
Laser: Single
Lock: Multi
Bomb: 1
Shield: 6 squares
Boost: 2 Squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

This is Amanda's first
appearance. She met Star Fox
member Slippy Toad and fell in
love with him shortly after.
Right now they are engaged and
planning to get married soon.

The Tadpole is similar to
Falco's ship, except trading low
shields and high boost for
higher shields and low boost. It
is best used against enemies
that attack in groups.


--------------------------------

"A former colleague of Falco,
she's still smitten with him.
Katt secretly wants to join Star
Fox so she can be near him."

Ship: Cat's Paw 2
Lock: Single
Bomb: 2
Shield: 4 squares
Boost: 3 squares
Time Bonus: 2 seconds

Katt made her debut in Star Fox
64, helping out the team in a
couple of crucial missions.
She's known Falco for a long
time and seems to follow him
around. Katt was responsible for
finding out about the project
designed to reincarnate Andross
and contacted Falco for
assistance 4 years after the
events of Star Fox
64. She's resourceful and
    playful with Falco,
    constantly toying with him
    and
teasing him.

The Cat's Paw 2 is nowhere near
as sleak as the original, but
still performs nicely. The stats
are for the most part, extremely
average, making it one of the
most balanced fighters in the
game. Having 2 bombs is nice.
Her curve shots are unique in
that they home slightly when
fired at an enemy. This makes
her a good choice against fast
moving enemies that like to
evade.


--------------------------------

"A general in the Cornerian
forces. He's a former member of
Star Fox and father figure to
Fox. He was great friends with
Fox's father."

Ship: Arwing
Laser: Twin
Lock: Single
Bomb: 2
Shield: 6 squares
Boost: 4 squares
Time bonus: 3 seconds

Peppy is one of the original
members of Star Fox. He and
James McCloud were best friends.
When Pigma betrayed them, Peppy
escaped Andross' wrath to return
to Corneria and take care of
James' son Fox. Peppy was a
mentor to Fox as he grew up, and
joined the new Star Fox in order
to continue teaching Fox how to
be a great pilot.

Peppy was an extremely skilled
and valuable member of the team
during the Lylat wars. He was
the experienced member of the
group and would always offer
advice to the other pilots.
After the Lylat wars, he retired
as a pilot in order to take a
tactical role aboard Great Fox
for the team. During the Aparoid
invasion, Peppy saved General
Pepper after his infested ship
was shot down by Fox and was
about to crash land. Peppy then
played a key role in the
destruction of the Aparoid queen
by crashing the Great Fox into
the force field protecting the
queen as it was about to close,
destroying the original Great
Fox. He survived the crash and
escaped with ROB in one of Great
Fox's escape pods.

Peppy's Arwing is very similar
to Fox's, but it features twin
lasers all the time and a 3
second time bonus instead of 2.
The twin lasers all Peppy to do
more damage against heavy
enemies than Fox.


--------------------------------

"A pilot who plays a vital role
in the Cornerian forces. A
childhood friendship with Fox
led Bill to also become a
pilot."

Ship: Cornerian Fighter
Laser: Twin
Lock: N/A
Bomb: 2
Shield: 6 squares
Boost: 3 squares
Time Bonus: 3 seconds

Bill also made his debut in Star
Fox 64 as the leader of the
Cornerian army group based on
the planet Katina. Fox and his
crew helped Bill fight off an
invasion from Venom and Bill
repayed the favour by helping
Fox in other missions against
Andross. Bill is an ace pilot
and natural leader who always
pays back his debts and is more
than willing to help out a
friend in need.

The Cornerian Fighter is
actually pretty crappy. Like the
Bullfrog, it can't lock on, but
unlike the Bullfrog, it doesn't
have enough firepower to be
really effective. His higher
shielding makes up for this
though. My advice would be to
try and get behind an enemy and
just plug away with the twin
lasers.


================================

The enemy list is incomplete
right now.

Below are the given stats, and a
quick synopsis on all of the
core enemies found through the
game


Ammonite I- Weapon [][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

These guys are like flying
shrimp of some kind. They fly
around aimlessly until you get
close, then they open up their
shells and shoot lasers at you.
Watch your boost meter as you're
barrel rolling, and be ready to
pull away when it's about to run
out.


Angel Fish- Weapon [][][][]
   Shield [][][]

These guys fly in groups of 3.
Try to get in behind them and
let loose with lasers.
Otherwise, they are easy prey
for bombs. They shoot lasers in
any direction.


Assault Laser- Weapon [][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

These guys can be a pain as
well. Their attacks consist of
throwing about 6 bombs in the
air that creat a pillar of fire,
much like the Bomber Birds.
Watch out for these pillars and
avoid as necessary


Balloonist- Weapon [][][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Basically a box being supported
by several balloons. Have
someone with multilock tear
through this enemy by targetting
all the balloons. Alternatively
just fire away at the ballons


Bee Fighter- Weapon[][][][]
     Shield[][][][][][][][]

This version of the Bee Fighter
launches a large ring of energy
towards you. Fly through the
middle of the ring to avoid
damage.


Bee Fighter II- Weapon [][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

This thing will fly backwards as
you approach it, and when it
lifts up its stinger, you know
it's going to attack. Attack the
stinger to kill it, and when the
stinger is pointed at you, do a
barrel roll.


Bomber Bird- Weapon [][][]
   Shield [][][][]

Bomber Birds will carry beneath
them, 2 orbs, which create large
towers of fire when dropped. If
you're behind a Bomber Bird,
expect them to drop these orbs
and avoid them when you see the
orbs dropped. After they drop
their payload, they will always
turn left. Use this to your
advantage and take them out.


Bozoid- Weapon [][][][]
  Shield [][][][][][][][]

Stronger version of the Assault
Laser, use the same tactics.


Commander- Weapon [][]
  Shield [][]

The Commanders are a little bit
more difficult than the Swarm
Fighters, mainly because they
are stronger, and aren't grouped
closely together. The best trick
is to get behind one and let
loose with charged shots while
avoiding fire from the rest of
them.


Devil Shark- Weapon [][][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Devil Worm- Weapon [][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Just blast away at the head
while avoiding it's shots and
being careful not to crash into
the tail.


Elite Fighter- Weapon [][]
   Shield [][][]
Elite Fighters can shoot in any
direction, but are pushovers.
Just lock on and fire when fully
charged.


Fire Wheel- Weapon [][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Fire Wheels will open up when
approached, then fly in front of
you while turning 3 lines of
fireballs and bouncing up and
down. Then they will close and
try to crash into you. They have
alot of health, so fully charged
shots are your best bet.


Flash Bomber- Weapon [][][][][]
     Shield [][][][][][][]

These guys are slow, and their
only attack is dropping 3 mines
as you're chasing them. Just
lock on to them from a distance
and you can destroy them before
they even have a chance to drop
the mines.


Flip Bots- Weapon [][][]
  Shield [][][]

Pretty basic enemy, beasically a
Commander that can perform
loops. If you're chasing one and
it pulls a loop, either brake or
loop to stay on its tail.


Giant Spindly Fish- Weapon
[][][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

These guys are a major pain, and
I suggest missiling them if you
can. They have 6 fins which
shoot lasers at you, 3 on top
and 3 on the bottom. It takes 2
bombs to kill 1 of them, and
charge shots don't work. If you
can, try to take Slippy against
these guys or someone else with
powerful single shots. Barrel
roll alot.


Invader III- Weapon [][][][]
   Shield [][][]

These guys fly around in groups
of 5. They shoot lasers in all
directions. Try to use charge
shots from a distance against
these guys, or use a bomb if
need be.


Jellyfish- Weapon [][][]
  Shield [][][][]

The Jellyfish are relatively
easy to beat. They come in large
groups of 5, and stay together
making them easy targets. They
shoot lasers at you from any
direction so don't forget to
barrel roll.


King Dodora- Weapon [][][][]
   Shield [][][][][]

Same as the regular Dodora,
except stronger. Will also cause
stone pillars to rise out of the
sand if you are chasing it.


Mega Spindly Fish- Weapon
[][][][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Similar to the Giant Spindly
Fish, but stronger. I recommend
you missile them whenever
humanly possible. If you are
forced to fight, I reccomend
attacking the fins on its top
and bottom from the side.


Moras- Weapon [][][][]
 Shield [][][][][]

Node- Weapon [][][]
 Shield [][][][][][][]

An orb that flies around with a
trail of tiny orbs behind it.
Drop a bomb on this sucker and
watch the screen fill up with
powerups from the little things.
Then just attack the head with
lasers while avoiding it's ring
lasers.


Puffer- Weapon [][]
  Shield [][][]

These guys are pretty weak. They
like to fly around in swarms and
shoot lasers at you. Blast away
with lasers, multi-lock or bombs
to dispatch them quickly.


Pylon- Weapon [][]
 Shield [][]

You may remember these guys from
the original Star Fox. The trick
here is to take out one of the
three parts at a time. This is
best done by using charged
shots.


Shuriken- Weapon []
  Shield [][][][][][][]

Don't let the lack of firepower
fool you, these guys can be a
pain. Watch out for their rear-
mounted lasers and barrel roll
when needed


Spin Devil- Weapon [][][][][][]
     Shield [][][][][][][]

Stationary enemy that shoots a
series of beams out of it's 8
parts. 2 bombs will take it out.
Otherwise, use someone with
multi-lock, or just pound away
at them.


Spinning Cores- Weapon [][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]


Starfish- Weapon [][]
  Shield []

The Starfish enemies are pretty
easy to take out. Lock on, and
wait for them to open up their
tentacles, then release your
charged shot to finish them off.


Swarm Fighter- Weapon [][]
   Shield []

These guys tend to fly in
groups, making them easy targets
for a barrage of lasers or
charged shots. They have one
laser cannon on the front and a
relatively slow speed.


Todora- Weapon [][][]
  Shield [][][][][][][][]


Web Ship- Weapon [][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Web Ships only have one attack,
and that is to create a trail of
plasma behind them as they move.
Just be careful to avoid flying
directly behind them and you
should be fine


Web Ship II- Weapon
[][][][][][][]
    Shield [][][][][][][][]

Just like the Web Ship 1, except
it can move up and down making
it a tougher target. Attack from
the side for best results.


================================

This section is currently
incomplete

Arrow Head (Asteroid Belt):

- Choose a pilot that has the mo
- Drop the bombs onto the Arrow 
- Now just pound the crap out of


Arrow Head (Venom):

- Little bit harder this time
- Will fly into the tubes on the
- Attack the pieces of the snake
- Destroyed pieces will fall to 
- Once all middle pieces are des
it. Just fire away at the head
while dodging the attacks
- For an easier time, use a bomb


Death Crab:

- Choose whoever has the most he
- In The first part of the battl
remaining bombs and shoot the
pincers
- Next, the crab starts flying. 
- Avoid his ring lasers by eithe
- He also has an attack similar 
bombs in the air that create
towers of fire that do heavy
damage
- After all the legs and pincers
massive damage until he goes
down


Emperor Anglar:

- Anglar is protected by a force
- His attack is a stream of shot
- Shoot the orbs until they turn
- Anglar will charge up a shot a
shot back to him
- After the reflected shot hits 
as many shots on it as you can
- When at half his life, he will
to be destroyed. During this
phase, large solid beams will
fly in from every direction
- After the 3 orbs are destroyed
uses some attacks he seems to
have learned from Andross
- First he will suck in air. Use
- After he sucks in, he will blo
your roll
- During this time, just pound a


Grunner:

- Pick whoever has the most heal
- Grunner itself has no attacks.
shoot rocks at you and create an
electrical barrier between them
- The best method is to have som
and above the range of the stone
towers' electrical barriers.
- You can only hurt him from beh


Pigma Dengar:

- He can be a confusing boss at 
- He is composed of 4 cubes and 
- Each time you shoot one of the
- The pattern goes Red-Yellow-Gr
- The object is to make all 4 sq
- The Red face launches multiple
- The Green face launches 3 voll
- The Yellow face shoots a barra
- When all 4 are Pigma's face, t
before a laser image of Pigma's
face is launched at you. Shoot
the orb while avoiding the
laser-face
- Lather, rinse, repeat


Splitter:

- Choose whoever has the most he
- This boss has 3 sections
- You need to kill the sections 
- It has a beam similar to that 
- It launches a barrage of slow 
- Get behind it and shoot the fl
rolling to deflect the shots
- Repeat for the other 2 parts
- Use charged shots unless you a

Star Wolf:

- Choose someone with alot of he
- Try to focus on one enemy at a
- If you see an oppurtunity to u
- Watch out for the mines they d
- Shoot the mines to get additio
- If you have one on your tail, 
- Keep one eye on the radar to p


===============================8


Here are some tips to help you
climb the ranks of Nintendo's
Wi-Fi ladder:

- Items are a good thing. In any
appear. Plasma guns should be
your first priority.
- Never go head to head with som
have them and a decent amount of
health, feel free to go head to
head.
- Cloaking is an excellent way t
other, then swoop in for the
star
- Bombs have a large number coun
when dropped, but can be an
excellent tool against
dogfighting enemies that may be
too occupied to notice
- Remember, in multiplayer games
range
- Keep track of the messages ROB
items, who gets kills, and who
is in the lead. Try to target
the person in the lead to
prevent them from scoring.
- Don't waste your boost meter b
your meter for rolling at all
times.
- Don't kill someone unless you 
- Only loop and u-turn when you 
more difficult target as you
perform the manouver.


================================

Each mission in my walkthrough
is broken into 3 parts. The
first part is a detailed map
which describes enemy locations,
powerup locations and natural
obstacles. Here is a legend for
the various symbols used in my
maps:

Great Fox- Represents the
starting location of the Great
Fox

(Character Name)- Represents the
starting location of the
specified character

E (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents a
group of enemy craft that are
detailed on the outside of the
map

EB (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents an
enemy controlled base that will
produce new enemy ships if left
in enemy hands. Reclaim these to
recieve additional turns. Every
time you finish a mission with
extra turns, they are added to a
counter. After 5 extra turns,
you recieve an extra ship
(1-up).

RL (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents an
enemy controlled base that will
launch rockets at the Great Fox.
They operate the same way as
enemy bases do.

C (1, 2, 3 etc.)- C represents
friendly bases. While moving on
the map, you can fly over these
cities, and gain a large
distance bonus to continue your
flight path. These can be
extremely important in some
missions

EM (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents
enemy missiles that are on the
map at mission start. Additional
missiles created during the
missions are unlabelled due to
the randomness of their
appearance

S (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Show the
location of Supply power-ups,
which replenishes the shields of
whoever picks them up

F (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents the
location of Fuel-Cell power-ups,
which add +25 to your timer when
picked up

M (1, 2, 3 etc.)- Represents the
location of Missile power-ups,
which add 1 missile to the Great
Fox's arsenal. A maximum of 3
missiles can be held at once

. - Areas covered in .'s
represent places on the map that
are shrouded by the fog of war.
You cannot see enemies or
powerups that are surrounded by
this fog unless you uncover them
using your Fog Dispersal Device
or have one of your characters
move through the fog.

+ - Areas with + signs represent
movement on the map by severly
decreasing your distance as you
pass through them. Try to avoid
getting stuck in an asteroid
field and leaving the Great Fox
open to enemy attacks

= - Areas covered by = signs are
ships cannot pass through.
Missiles can pass over these
zones, so watch out. You will
have to fly around these zones

The second part is a turn by
turn walkthrough of the mission,
which will give you a rough idea
of how to succeed. Keep in mind
that there are some variables,
such as enemy ship and missile
launches from occupied bases,
that may make your mission play
out differently than mine did.
This is just meant as a guide
and won't be 100% accurate every
time.

The third part is a brief
synopsis of how to successfully
complete the combat portions of
each mission.


=========================9.1) En

You start the game by reading
the Prologue, which gives you an
idea of the current state of the
Lylat system, and Team Star
Fox's former members.

Fox decides to help out the
citizens of Lylat by taking out
the Anglar threat by himself.
ROB sets course for Corneria,
but asks Fox if he wants to do
some training first. I recommend
you accept the training offer as
the controls can be quite
awkward at first.


=====================9.i) Level 

Just fly through the rings in
any order to complete this
mission. It helps give you a
feel for the stylus controls of
the game.


=======================9.ii) Lev

Thirty weak fighters occupy this
stage. They tend to group
together making them easy
targets. Take this oppurtunity
to get used to firing controls,
charge shots and bomb usage.
Don't forget the ever mighty
barrel roll.


=========================9.iii) 

Here you have 5 turret towers
scattered across the map. This
level teaches you how to attack
stationary targets, and the
importance of the barrel roll.
As you approach the enemy
turrets, barrel roll to deflect
their shots and attract their
cores. Just open up with your
lasers to destroy them. If you
want, you can use your 2 bombs
to destroy the turrets from a
very safe distance. It will help
you to learn bomb usage. I also
recommend that you play around
learning the advanced flight
manouvers such as boosting,
braking u-turning and looping.


========================9.iv) Le

This level teaches you the
basics of the time system by
pitting you against 15 weak
fighters with only a certain
time limit. Here you will learn
tricks to increase your fuel for
other encounters, such as flying
through loops for bonuses or
getting a bonus for every 5
enemies killed.

TRAINING COMPLETE!

After training, ROB states that
you have arrived at Corneria and
are ready to take the fight to
the Anglar forces


=====================9.11) Missi

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Fox

Your first combat mission is a
fairly simple one, designed to
give you a feel for the controls
and command system.

________________________________
|                               
| E1 |E2- 3 Swarm Fighter < |
|E3- 3 Swarm Fighter <<
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
|          Fox                  
|Great Fox                      
|                               
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Fly towards E3
- All 3 enemy groups will fly to

Turn 2:

- Fly Northwest
- E3 and E2 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Fly towards E1 and engage

Combat tips:

- This level is easy as there ar
- Against the Swarm Fighters, ju
off the remainder
- Against the Commanders, try to
Barrel roll if necessary.
- Remember to barrel roll after 

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back aboard the Great Fox, you
discover that the Anglar ships
are made of chrome and aluminum,
perfectly designed to function
in the acidic Sea of Venom. Fox
decides that he needs help, so
he contacts Slippy. After some
catching up, Slippy decides to
help Fox out.


=======================9.12) Mis

Planet: Corneria Characters:
Fox, Slippy (arrives during turn
3)

This mission has you starting
off with impassable terrain
between you and Great Fox. Enemy
ships will beat you to the Great
Fox, unless the Great Fox fights
back. This mission teaches you
how to use missile powerups to
your advantage.
________________________________
| |E1- 6 Swarm Fighters <<< | E2
|E2- 3 Commanders <<< | F1 M4 E4
|E3- 9 Swarm Fighters << | E1 E3
|E4- 2 Flash Bombers <<<
|                               
|                M3     ===     
|                      =====    
|                     ======    
|              M2    ====       
|                   =====       
|                   ====        
|            M1    ====         
|                  ====         
|                 ====          
|                ====           
|          Fox  ====       Great
|               ====            
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Have Fox move to M2 by going t
- All enemies will close in on G

Turn 2:

- Launch missiles at E4 and E5
- Move Fox to M4 going through M
- Remaining enemies will move to

Turn 3:

- Launch missiles at E3 and E2
- Slippy joins the fray. Have hi

Combat Tips:

- You should only have to fight 
Fighters
- Slippy's lasers can't charge, 

MISSION COMPLETE!

After clearing Mission 2, you
learn from Slippy that our old
pal Peppy Hare has been named as
General of the Cornerian army,
replacing General Pepper who is
confined to a sick bed. ROB
interrupts saying that an
emergency message has been sent
by someone named Lucy, who
Slippy explains is Peppy's
daughter. You set course for the
planet Fichina to help Lucy out.

When you arrive at Fachina, you
learn a little bit about Lucy,
including how she was a tomboy
as a child and is now teaching
astrophysics. You also learn
that she was good friends with
Krystal before Fox cuts the
conversation short.


=========================9.13) M

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy

In this mission, you are
introduced to the "Fog of War",
which is a cloud of fog that
obscures your radar and hides
enemies and powerups.
________________________________
|                               
| ........ ......|E3- 1 Assault
Laser <<< | Slippy ....M..... E3
... |E3- 4 Bomber Birds <<< |
........ |B1- Enemy base
defended by a | Great Fox
|Mothership and 2 Shurikens
|             ====              
|             =====             
|  Fox        ====              
|                               
|             ..........=====...
|            ...F........===== .
|               ..          E2  
|     .........                 
|    ..S...........            .
|    ................          .
|    ..E1.  .........        .S.
|    ...............         ...
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

Uncover the missile, E1 group
and Boss using your fog
dispersal device (drag the
stylus over the fog in the areas
I've shown).
- Send fox through the Fuel Cell
this group
- Send Slippy in the dirction of
- E1 can be left alone for now
- E2 will intercept Fox
- E3 will head in Slippy's direc
- Boss will create more Fog

Turn 2:

- Uncover anything you feel you 
- Have Slippy pick up the Missil
- Send Fox on a straight line in
- E1 will move towards the Great
- E3 will engage Slippy
- Boss will produce another grou

Turn 3:

- Launch your missile at E1
- Uncover the base
- Send Fox straight for the enem
- Fox will engage E4, then fight

Combat advice:

- This map features many differe
creating enemies, boats with a
laser mounted, laser turrets and
these weird bubble shooting
octopi
- As usual, focus mainly on elim
- Against the Shurikens, watch o
needed
- Against the Bomber Birds, just
their bombs. Try to keep a bit
of distance and use charged
lasers
- Against the Assault Laser, wat
their scatter bombs. Once again
try to keep a distance
- In the engagement with the Mot
get their cores, then follow the
red boxes to the Mothership and
execute a quick Barrel Roll as
you are about to hit it. That is
how to defeat the boss.


BOSS! Star Wolf:

After you clear the level, Star
Wolf and his gang will arrive.
They think you're after the
hefty bounty on their heads and
will engage you. Choose one
person to fight Star Wolf with.
Pick whoever has more shield.

Star Wolf advice:

- Try to focus on one enemy at a
- If you see an oppurtunity to u
- Watch out for the mines they d
- If you have one on your tail, 
- If you are running out of fuel
powerups

After battle, Lucy boards Great
Fox and asks whether Peppy got
her message or not. Fox explains
that they intercepted the
message and Slippy reassures her
that Peppy will not go down so
easily. Lucy then tells Fox that
she knows who's responsible for
the invasion of Fichina: Andrew
Oikonny, former member of Star
Wolf and nephew of the late
Andross. You then find out that
Oikonny is working on a
dangerous super weapon.

Slippy suggests that you visit
his father in the asteroid
field.

Choose option 1 to fight Oikonny
now. Option 2 is locked.


=====================9.14) Missi

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy and Lucy

Oikonny messages you saying that
he's ready to exact his revenge
for all the times you've foiled
him in the past. Fox taunts
Oikonny and Oikonny cuts the
transmission.

________________________________
|..................E2...........
.............|E1- 1 Assault
Laser< |.F1.....M2..............
................B2..|E2- 2 Web
Ships <
|.........============..........
|...B1..........................
.............|B1- Enemy base
defended by a |.................
......................E3...|Moth
ership and 2 Web Ships |........
................................
....|B2- Enemy base defended by
a |..............X..............
...............|Mothership and 3
Shurikens |.....................
.......................|B3-
Enemy base defended by a | =====
=======.................|Mothers
hip and 3 Bomber Birds
|               ................
| Lucy          ................
|               ..........F2....
|       Fox       ..............
|                   ..==========
|                      .........
| Great Fox Slippy
.M1.............S..E1.|
|                      .........
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover B1, M and E1 using you
- Move Slippy towards M1
- Move Fox up between the two im
- Move Lucy straight to B1 to de
- E1 will engage Slippy
- E2 will move towards Lucy

Turn 2:

- Uncover E3, F2 and B2
- Move Slippy to F2
- Move Fox closer to B2 where he
- Have Lucy pick up F1, M2 and h
and the top of the map
- E2 will engage Lucy
- E3 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Uncover E5, B3 and B2
- Send Fox to B2
- Fire a missile at any enemies 
- Send Slippy to B3

BOSS! Death Crab:

Oikonny decides to finally fight
his own battle, and comes out
with the Anglar superweapon, the
Death Crab. Don't be too scared
though, this boss isn't so
tough.

- Choose whoever has the most he
- the first part of the battle, 
remaining bombs and shoot the
pincers
- Next, the crab starts flying. 
- Avoid his ring lasers by eithe
- After all the legs and pincers
MASSIVE DAMAGE!

After Oikonny is defeated, you
return to Great Fox to celebrate
the liberation of Fachina.
Slippy compliments Lucy's flying
and Lucy chides Fox for "Really
screwing up" with Krystal. Lucy
then leaves to find her father
on Corneria.

Slippy asks Fox to visit the
ocean planet Aquas so he can
pick up his fiancee. ROB then
gets a message saying that the
sunken city on Aquas is under
attack. Fox sends out a message
to Falco Lombardi to meet them
at Aquas. You leave for Aquas.

When you arrive at Aquas, Slippy
tries to contact Amanda but
fails. He begins to worry until
Falco arrives and teases him.
Faclo says he has interesting
information but they decide to
clear the area first.


=======================9.15) Mis

Planet: Aquas Characters: Fox,
Slippy, Falco, Amanda (comes
during turn 2)

This mission introduces you to
enemy rockets. You have to
intercept them before they can
reach Great Fox.
________________________________
|...E2....F1.............=======
==...........|E1- 12 Jellyfish
<<< |...===.........RL1........=
====......RL3....|E2- 2 Giant
Spindly Fish << |...===.........
.......F2....==.............=|RL
1- Enemy base defended by a |...
..........===========...........
......===|Mothership and a Manta
Ray |...................=====.EM
1....E1.......===|RL2- Enemy
base defended by a |............
..........==.....C1........=====
|Mothership and 3 Puffers |.....
.....==.......M1..===...........
.......|RL3- Enemy base defended
by a |..........==..............
...======.........|Mothership
and 3 arm-thingies
|..........==.................==
|          ===.......==.......==
|          ==       ===......===
|          ==       ==      ==..
|          ==               ====
| Fox        Falco          ====
|                           ....
| Great Fox Slippy
........Amanda..|
|                            ...
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover RL1, RL2, E2 and M1
- Move Falco towards the missile
- Have Fox intercept E2
- Move Slippy towards the City
- EM1 will move closer to Great 
- E2 will engage Fox
- E1 will move towards Great Fox
- If you have a missile from las
Giant Spindly Fish can be a pain
to kill

Turn 2:

- Uncover what needs to be uncov
- Have Fox pick up F1 and move t
- Have Falco pick up M1 and inte
- Have Slippy intercept EM1
- Reclaim RL2 with Amanda
- E1 will engage Slippy

Turn 3:

- Uncover the important location
- Have fox take out RL1
- Move Amanda towards RL3
- Falco and Slippy are on anti-m

Turn 4:

- Pick up F2 with Fox
- Take out RL3 with Amanda
- Falco and Slippy will take car

Combat Tips:

- Giant Spindly fish are a royal
a good laser barrage. Avoid
fighting them by using missiles
from Great Fox if you can. If
not, try to do as much damage as
you can using bombs and attack
the fins where they connect to
the body
- Against the Jellyfish, just go
whole group if you're feeling
lazy
- The Puffers will fall easily t
one charged shot to avoid damage
entirely.
- The Manta Ray can be easily de
it's body
- When chasing missiles, remembe
enough. Don't miss any beacons
or else you'll lose track of the
missile. For chargers, just try
to get a full charge while
paying attention to the missile.
For Slippy, just let loose on
the missile and watch it go down
quickly.

MISSION COMPLETE!

After the battle, Slippy and
Amanda have an emotional
reunion. Falco decides to tell
Fox the important news he had
before the battle. Now here's a
bit of a shocker, Krystal has
joined up with Star Wolf! Not
only that, but they are planning
to take Venom by themselves!

Peppy then sends a transmission
stating that a large Anglar
armada is heading to Corneria
and is planning to cut through
the Asteroid Belt. You set a
course for Sector Z to intercept
this fleet.

When you arrive at Sector Z, ROB
informs you that there are
multiple Anglar fighters on the
scanners. Krystal then transmits
that she's safe. Fox asks her to
meet up and help take out the
Anglar fleet.


==========================9.16) 

Planet: Sector Z Characters:
Fox, Falco, Slippy and Krystal

In this level, you have to watch
out for the asteroid field (+ on
my map). If you pass through it,
it will slow you down and you
won't be able to cover as much
distance.
________________________________
| F2 |E1- 4 Ammonite 1s <<<
|                               
| E1 ========== |E3- 1 Spin
Devil <<<
|                       ========
| Krystal Slippy |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | M1
Great Fox Fox |by Mothership and
10 fighters | Falco |RL2- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | = |by
Mothership and 10 Invader IIIs |
== |RL3- Enemy rocketlauncher
defended | === E4 |by a
Mothership and Bee Fighter II
|      E2     ==========        
|                               
|                               
|                   E3   + + + +
|                       + + + + 
|   RL3                         
|                        F1     
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- No fog of war in this level!
- Send Krystal to E1 through M1
- Send Fox to E4
- Send Slippy towards RL1
- Send Falco towards E3
- E1 will engage Krystal
- E2 will move towards Krystal
- E3 will engage Falco
- E4 will engage Fox

Turn 2:

- Have Krystal move by E2 then c
- Keep Falco near Great Fox and 
- Send Fox towards RL2 through S
- Move Slippy towards Great Fox 
- Falco will engage EM1
- E2 will engage Krystal

Turn 3:

- Have Fox pick up F1
- Have Krystal hit RL3
- Falco and Slippy should take c

Combat Tips:

- Against Angel Fish, just try t
- Against the Spin Devil, just l
- Against the Ammonites, be very
away when your barrel roll runs
out. Krystal's ship is pretty
weak here.
- Against the Bozoid, use the sa
attack them from behind, but
watch out for the towers of fire
- Against the fighters at RL1, a
- Against the dancers at RL2, us
or use bombs if you're having
trouble
- Against the bee machine at RL3
stinger up, that means it is
going to attack with a barrage
of shots. Barrel roll to avoid
damage.

MISSION COMPLETE!

After the mission, Krystal and
Fox settle their differences and
agree that Krystal should help
with the fighting. Krystal tells
about how her and the Star Wolf
team attacked the Anglar HQ on
Venom and how the sea corroded
their ships. They agree that
they should end the conflict by
taking out the Anglar Emperor.
You set course for the Anglar
armada which is in the Asteroid
belt.

You are shown a scene where
Emperor Anglar and one of his
men are discussing the
destruction of their unit in
Sector Z and their future plans.
They decide to wait in the
Asteroid Belt for Star Fox
before advancing on Corneria.

Back on the Great Fox, the crew
prepares for battle


=============================9.1

Planet: Asteroid Belt
Characters: Fox, Slippy, Falco
and Krystal

This is the final level of the
first mission path. Not too
challenging either. If you have
any missiles going into this
level, feel free to use them at
your discretion.

________________________________
|                      ..+.+....
|RL1 S1
..+.+........RL2.......|E2- 1
Spin Devil <<<
|                    ..===......
|
...=====..................|EB1-
Enemy base defended by mother | 
.E1....===...................|sh
ip and 3 Flash Bombers | .....F1
........................|RL1-
Enemy rocketlauncher defended | 
............+.M1+.+.........F1..
|by Mothership and 3 Ammonite 1s
| .===........+.+.+.+........E3.
...|RL2- Enemy rocketlauncher
defended | .=====......+.+.+.+..
.............|by Mothership and
2 Pylons
|          ..===.......E2.......
|           ..................==
|            ................===
| Falco            ...........==
|     Fox                   EB1 
|         Slippy                
|            Krystal            
|Great Fox                      
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Defog the things show on my ma
- Send Falco to attack RL1
- Have Fox move up towards E1 an
- Send Slippy towards E2
- Get Krystal to wipe out EB1
- E1 will engage Fox
- E2 will engage Slippy
- E3 will move towards Slippy
- EM1 will move towards Great Fo

Turn 2:

- Defog what needs to be defogge
- Send Falco to pick up S1, then
- Send Slippy to EM1
- Send Krystal to help out Slipp
- Send Fox to pick up F1 and mov
- E3 should engage Krystal

Turn 3

- Send whoever's closest to take
- Have everyone else fly missile

Combat Tips:

- The Angel Fish can be easily d
a bomb
- Use lock-on shots against the 
- Just drop 2 bombs on the Spin 
- Against the enemies at EB1, ju
- The Devil Worm is actually pre
Wath out for its shots and
barrel roll accordingly.
- EB1's defenders can be easily 
- RL1's defenders can be destroy
- RL2's defenders can be destroy

BOSS! Arrow Head:

Anglar has decided to take
things into his own hands and
took his personal ship out to
fight you himself.

- He's actually pretty easy. Tak
the bombs in his path and most
of the tail parts will be
destroyed. Repeat if necessary
- Now just pound the crap out of

MISSION COMPLETE!

After defeating the final boss
of the first path, Star Wolf
contacts you expressing his
anger that you were the ones who
took out Emperor Anglar. Falco
assures Wolf that the bounty
will be removed from their
heads. They reassure Krystal
that they got away from Venom
safely, although Panther is
disappointed that she left. They
say goodbye and leave.

Peppy then sends a
congratulatory message to Fox,
telling him that he is a great
leader like his father.

THE END OF PATH 1

Now that you have beaten Path 1,
you can take any other path as
you choose.


================================

This path follows the choice
made after the first mission of
whether to hook up with Slippy,
or find Falco. Choose to find
Falco to follow this path.


====================9.21) Missio

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Fox

After beating the game the first
time, each subsequent
playthrough will result in this
mission being played first
________________________________
| F1 |E1- 9 Swarm Fighters << |
EB1 EB2 |EB1- Enemy base
defended by a | ==== |Mothership
and 2 Starfish | ==== E1 |EB2-
Enemy base defended by a |
====== |Mothership and 4
Commanders
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
| Great Fox  Fox                
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Send Fox north, along the west
- E1 will fly towards Great Fox
- EB1 and EB2 may create additio

Turn 2:

- Have Fox attack EB1
- Any enemy created at EB1 will 
- E1 and any enemy created at EB

Turn 3:

- Fly through EB1 and cut off E1
- E1 will engage Fox

Turn 4:

- Fly towards EB2, attracting an

Turn 5:

- Fly through S1 and attack EB2

Combat Tips:

- Nothing you haven't seen befor
- Watch out for the city buildin

MISSION COMPLETE!

ROB gives his explanation on the
enemy ships while Fox ponders
his next move. Choose option 3,
"Where is Falco?"

You arrive at Katina and Falco
talks with ROB. He decides that
he's going to help liberate
Katina, with or without Fox.


=======================9.22) Mis

Planet: Katina Characters:
Falco, Bill (arrives turn 3)

This mission isn't that bad. You
are given 3 missile powerups, so
either use or save them at your
discretion
________________________________
|                               
| E4 EB1 |E2- 4 Spinning Cores
<<< | M3 F1 |E3- 12 Swarm
Fighters <<
|            ======             
| RL1 ====== |EB1- Enemy base
defended by a | =====
|Mothership and 2 Web Ships
|Bill ===== |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | ====
|by a Mothership and 3
Commanders
|         ====                  
|    E3  ====                   
|        ====                   
|        ====   E1              
|E2 F2   ====                   
|        ====                   
|        ====                  M
|  F1    ====                   
|        ====                   
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Move Falco to M1, then down a 
- E1 will engage Falco
- Other enemies will move toward
- EB1 and RL1 may launch additio

Turn 2:

- Move Falco through C1 and M2 t
- All enemies/missiles move towa

Turn 3:

- Move Falco through the now fri
- Fire missiles if the enemies a
- Bill from Star Fox 64 will app
- Send Bill to pick up M3 and at
- E2, E3 and E4 may engage Falco

Turn 4:

- Mop up any enemies or missiles
- Pick up F1 and F2 with Bill by

Combat Tips:

- Not much new here
- Flip Bots like to pull loops w
or do a loop yourself
- Bill's ship doesn't have a loc

MISSION COMPLETE!

After battle you recieve a
transmission from Star Wolf. It
seems as though they are
determined to fly through Sector
X and attack Venom themselves.
Krystal is with them

You arrive at the Asteroid Belt
to find that Star Wolf has
already headed to Sector X. You
recieve word that Fox is headed
to Aquas, but before you leave,
Falco decides to wipe out the
enemies in the belt.


========================9.23) Mi

Planet: Asteroid Belt
Characters: Falco

________________________________
|                               
| Falco RL1 RL2 |E2- 2 Pylons
<<< | Great Fox |E3- 1 Spin
Devil << | M1 |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | |by a
Mothership and 3 Ammonites | M3
=== M2 F2 |RL2- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | ====
|by a Mothership and 6 dual
ships | ===== E2 |RL3- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | ======
|by a Mothership and 2 ???
|  + + + + + +     =====        
| + + + F1 + +        ===       
|  + + + + +            ===     
|                               
|                               
|  E1                           
|                               
|              RL3              
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Move Falco to RL1 through M1
- All enemies will move towards 
- One of the rocket launchers ma
- E2 should engage Falco

Turn 2:

- Send Falco through M1 to engag
- RL2 and RL3 may launch missile
- Shoot E1 with a missile

Turn 3:

- Katt will arrive to give Falco
- Have her intercept any missile
- Move Falco through M2 to attac

Turn 4:

- Have Falco pick up F2, then he
- Have Katt assault RL3 or inter

Turn 5:

- Finish off if needed

Combat Tips:

- Once again not much to say
- Katt's weapon is a single Plas

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back on the Great Fox, ROB
suggests you rendezvous with Fox
at Aquas, Here you must choose
whether to go on to ending 2, or
to meet back up with the
original path at Aquas. Choose
to Search for Krystal to
continue on to this ending.

You arrive at Sector X to find a
nasty surprise, Pigma Dengar,
member of the original Star Fox
team with James McCloud and
Peppy Hare. Apparantly he
survived his battle with Star
Fox during Star Fox Assault and
is looking for revenge.

=======================9.24) Mis

Planet: Sector X
Characters: Falco

There are alot of enemies on
this map. Don't venture too far
from the Great Fox witout making
sure that it is safe. This is
the last mission on this path,
so feel free to use missiles
liberally.
________________________________
|                 S1            
| EM2 E5 |E2- 1 Bozoid << | E2 +
+ |E3- 1 Bee Fighter II <<
|             + +               
| + + F2 |E5- 15 Invader IIIs
|        + + +                  
|       + + +                   
|      + M2 +                 E3
|       + + + E1                
|        + +                    
|                               
|                               
|       M1           F1         
|                              +
|  Falco               M3     + 
|                        + + + +
|    Great Fox                  
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Fly through M1, then across th
- E1 will engage Falco
- All enemies and missiles will 

Turn 2:

- Fire a missile at E3 and E2 if
- Collect M3 and intercept EM1 w
- E4 will engage Falco
- E2, E5 and EM2 will move towar

Turn 3:

- Laucn a missile at E2 if you h
- Katt arrives
- Have Katt intercept EM1 while 
- E5 will engage Falco

Combat Tips:

- Against the node, take advanta
- Use bombs against the Invader 

BOSS! Pigma Dengar:

- He can be a confusing boss at 
- He is composed of 4 cubes and 
- Each time you shoot one of the
- The pattern goes Red-Yellow-Gr
- The object is to make all 4 sq
- The Red face launches multiple
- The Green face launches 3 voll
- The Yellow face shoots a barra
- When all 4 are Pigma's face, t
before a laser image of Pigma's
face is launched at you. Shoot
the orb while avoiding the
laser-face
- Lather, rinse, repeat

END OF PATH 2!

Back on Great Fox, Falco
recieves word from Fox that the
Anglar forces were destroyed
without Falco's help. Fox then
invites Falco to Slippy and
Amanda's wedding on Aquas. Enjoy
ending #2


================================


This path will follow the
original game's path to after
you defeat Oikonny at Fichina,
then will split from the main
path there. This route follows
Lucy after the liberation of
Fichina.


====================9.31) Missio

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Fox

After beating the game the first
time, each subsequent
playthrough will start with this
mission
________________________________
| F1 |E1- 9 Swarm Fighters << |
EB1 EB2 |EB1- Enemy base
defended by a | ==== |Mothership
and 2 Starfish | ==== E1 |EB2-
Enemy base defended by a |
====== |Mothership and 4
Commanders
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
| Great Fox  Fox                
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Send Fox north, along the west
- E1 will fly towards Great Fox
- EB1 and EB2 may create additio

Turn 2:

- Have Fox attack EB1
- Any enemy created at EB1 will 
- E1 and any enemy created at EB

Turn 3:

- Fly through EB1 and cut off E1
- E1 will engage Fox

Turn 4:

- Fly towards EB2, attracting an

Turn 5:

- Fly through S1 and attack EB2

Combat Tips:

- Nothing you haven't seen befor
- Watch out for the city buildin

MISSION COMPLETE!

ROB gives his explanation on the
enemy ships while Fox ponders
his next move. Choose option 1,
"Contact Slippy"

You contact Slippy from the
Great Fox and get him to meet up
with you.


======================9.32) Miss

Planet: Corneria Characters:
Fox, Slippy (arrives during turn
3)

This mission is similar to the
first playthrough, except there
is a rocket base and some
changes to the enemies. Use
similar tactics.
________________________________
|                               
| E1 RL1 |E2- 12 Swarm Fighters
<<< | F1 M4 E3 |E3- 5 Commanders
<<<
|                   E2          
|                               
| M3 === S1 |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | =====
|by a Mothership and 4
Commanders
|                     ======    
|              M2    ====       
|                   =====       
|                   ====        
|            M1    ====         
|                  ====         
|  E5             ====          
|                ====           
|          Fox  ====       Great
|               ====            
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Have Fox move to M2 by going t
- All enemies will close in on G
- RL1 may launch a missile

Turn 2:

- Launch missiles at E3 and E4
- Move Fox to M4 going through M
- Remaining enemies will move to

Turn 3:

- Launch missiles at E1 and E2
- Slippy joins the fray. Have hi
Fox
- Send Fox to attack RL1
- E5 will head towards Great Fox

Turn 4:

- Engage E5 with Fox

Combat Tips:

- Take care to destroy any missi
- Flash Bombers are slow. Charge

MISSION COMPLETE!

Listen to Slippy's introduction
of Lucy and update on Peppy,
then choose option 1, "Set
Course for Fachina"

After arriving at Fichina,
listen to the conversation, then
prepare to enter battle.

=========================9.33) M

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy

Unlike last mission, Fog of War
on additional playthroughs is
totally different.
________________________________
| ===== ..................E3..S1
....==|E1- 1 Fire Wheel <<<
|       ===    .................
| ..E1...................EB1...|
E3- 2 Shurikens <<<
|       ====    ..............  
| =====================
======|EB1- Enemy base defended
by a | Fox
======================
======|Mothership and 2
Shurikens | ..............===...
........====|RL1- Enemy base
defended by a |Great Fox .......
M1.....===........RL1....|Mother
ship and 3 Bomber Birds
|            ..............===..
|       =========..........====.
|Slippy =========..........====.
|       =========..........====.
|             ..................
|             .......E2.........
|            ==.................
|          =======..............
|        ================.......
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover key locations with the
- Send Fox towards E1
- Send Slippy towards E2
- E1 will engage Fox and E2 will
- EB1 and RL1 may produce enemie

Turn 2:

- Send Slippy to M1 and have him
- Send Fox towards EB1
- E3 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Send Slippy to engage E4
- Send Fox to attack EB1

Turn 4:

- Have Slippy pick up F1 and F2
- Send Fox to attack RL1
- If there are any missiles, hav

Combat Tips:

- The only new enemy here is the
3 directions. Take it out using
charged shots.

BOSS! Star Wolf:

- Same as the last time
- If you're short on fuel, shoot

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back on the Great Fox, Lucy
mentions that Andrew Oikonny is
in charge of the Fichina
invasion. Choose option 1 to
continue on this path


=====================9.34) Missi

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy and Lucy

This time, the mission is
exactly as it was in the first
path
________________________________
|..................E2....S2.....
.............|E1- 1 Assault
Laser< |.F1.....M2..............
................B2..|E2- 2 Web
Ships <
|.........============..........
|...B1..........................
.............|B1- Enemy base
defended by a |.................
......................E3...|Moth
ership and 2 Web Ships |........
................................
....|B2- Enemy base defended by
a |..............X..............
...............|Mothership and 3
Shurikens |.....................
.......................|B3-
Enemy base defended by a | =====
=======.................|Mothers
hip and 3 Bomber Birds
|               ................
| Lucy          ................
|               ..........F2....
|       Fox       ..............
|                   ..==========
|                      .........
| Great Fox Slippy
.M1......E1.....S1....|
|                      .........
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover B1, M and E1 using you
- Move Slippy towards M1
- Move Fox up between the two im
- Move Lucy straight to B1 to de
- E1 will engage Slippy
- E2 will move towards Lucy

Turn 2:

- Uncover E3, F2 and B2
- Move Slippy to F2
- Move Fox closer to B2 where he
- Have Lucy pick up F1, M2 and h
and the top of the map
- E2 will engage Lucy
- E3 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Uncover E5, B3 and B2
- Send Fox to B2
- Fire a missile at any enemies 
- Send Slippy to B3

BOSS! Death Crab:

- Same as last time
- Fuel shouldn't be a problem si
a fuel cell

After battle, watch or skip the
dialogue, then choose to unlock
option 2, "Check out Corneria"
to continue the path with Lucy.

Lucy arrives at Corneria to
discover that the planet is
under Anglar control. She is
worried about her father, Peppy.


=====================9.35) Missi

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Lucy

Holy missiles Batman! This map
is covered with missile
powerups, and plenty of enemies
to use them on.
________________________________
| |E1- 12 Swarm Fighters < |E8
Great Fox |E2- 6 Swarm Fighters
< | ======= M1 |E3- 2 Elite
Fighters <
|             ========          
| ==== E7 ======== |E5- 10
Commanders <
|   ======     M10  ======      
| ====== F1 ===== |E7- 2 Flash
Bombers <
|      ====    C3     ======    
|       ====           ===      
|        ====     M7            
|          =====         M4     
|          =====     E3         
|           ==== M8             
|  E6              C2      M5   
|                               
|          E5    M9             
|    EM1                E4      
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- If you have any missiles, use 
- Move Lucy to M1, C1, M2 and st
- All enemies and rockets will m

Turn 2:

- Fire missiles at the three clo
- Move Lucy through M4, M5, C1 a
enemy missile will be
- E4 and E5 will engage Lucy

Turn 3:

- Fire missiles at the 3 remaini

Combat Tips:

- Against E4, just use a bomb wh
- Against E5, attack and kill th
when close and charged shots
when far

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back on the Great Fox, Peppy
decides to scold his daughter
for being reckless. He then
mentions his late wife Vivian.
He then says that he has
important news for Fox. He tells
ROB to send a message to Fox to
meet him at Titania. He tells
Lucy to stay and protect
Corneria. Choose Option 2 "Say
farewell to Peppy".

Peppy leaves, and ROB warns Lucy
that the Anglar are attacking
the area again. She calls for
reinforcements, but the
Cornerian army isn't prepared
for battle.

However, Krystal, Katt and
Amanda answer the call and all
join the battle.

=======================9.36) Mis

Planet: Corneria Characters:
Lucy, Katt, Krystal and Amanda

This mission lets you take
control of the 4 ladies in this
game and is fairly easy too.
________________________________
|E2.............. EM1 |E1- 10
Puffers << |............... F1
|E2- 12 Swarm Fighters <<
|........F1....                 
|............ M1 |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended
|......RL1.. |by a Mothership
and 2 Elite
|.........                      
|...... Krystal |RL2- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended |....
Lucy ===............|by a
Mothership and 2 Starfish
|..            Great Fox     ===
|         M2          Katt   ===
|               Amanda      ====
|                          ====.
|                        =====..
|      F2              ======...
|                     ======....
|                          .....
|  E1                     ......
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover everything under the f
- Move Krystal to intercept EM1
- Move Lucy through M2 and attac
- Move Amanda to F2
- Move Katt to the south of the 
- E1 will engage Amanda
- RL1 or RL2 may launch a missil

Turn 2:

- Launch a missile at E2
- Have Lucy pick up F1 and M1
- Have Amanda take out any missi
- Have Katt attack RL2
- Get Krystal to pick up F1 and 

Combat Tips:

- Another easy level
- Against the Puffers, use a bom

BOSS! Splitter:

After winning the battle, an
Anglar pilot arrives with a new
superweapon

- Choose whoever has the most he
- This boss has 3 sections
- You need to kill the sections 
- It has a beam similar to that 
- It launches a barrage of slow 
- Get behind it and shoot the fl
rolling to deflect the shots
- Repeat for the other 2 parts
- Use charged shots unless you a

MISSION COMPLETE!

PATH 3 COMPLETED!

After the battle, Lucy says her
thanks and Krystal introduces
her to Amanda and Katt. You then
recieve a message from Peppy
that him and Fox were successful
at Venom.


================================


This ending follows Peppy and
the rest of the crew as they
attack Venom after Peppy is
found by Lucy. Choose to "Head
for Titania" to acquire this
ending.


====================9.41) Missio

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Fox

After beating the game the first
time, each subsequent
playthrough will start with this
mission
________________________________
| F1 |E1- 9 Swarm Fighters << |
EB1 EB2 |EB1- Enemy base
defended by a | ==== |Mothership
and 2 Starfish | ==== E1 |EB2-
Enemy base defended by a |
====== |Mothership and 4
Commanders
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                  ====         
|                               
|                               
|                               
|                               
| Great Fox  Fox                
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Send Fox north, along the west
- E1 will fly towards Great Fox
- EB1 and EB2 may create additio

Turn 2:

- Have Fox attack EB1
- Any enemy created at EB1 will 
- E1 and any enemy created at EB

Turn 3:

- Fly through EB1 and cut off E1
- E1 will engage Fox

Turn 4:

- Fly towards EB2, attracting an

Turn 5:

- Fly through S1 and attack EB2

Combat Tips:

- Nothing you haven't seen befor
- Watch out for the city buildin

MISSION COMPLETE!

ROB gives his explanation on the
enemy ships while Fox ponders
his next move. Choose option 1,
"Contact Slippy"

You contact Slippy from the
Great Fox and get him to meet up
with you.


======================9.42) Miss

Planet: Corneria Characters:
Fox, Slippy (arrives during turn
3)

This mission is similar to the
first playthrough, except there
is a rocket base and some
changes to the enemies. Use
similar tactics.
________________________________
|                               
| E1 RL1 |E2- 12 Swarm Fighters
<<< | F1 M4 E3 |E3- 5 Commanders
<<<
|                   E2          
|                               
| M3 === S1 |RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended | =====
|by a Mothership and 4
Commanders
|                     ======    
|              M2    ====       
|                   =====       
|                   ====        
|            M1    ====         
|                  ====         
|  E5             ====          
|                ====           
|          Fox  ====       Great
|               ====            
|_______________________________


Turn 1:

- Have Fox move to M2 by going t
- All enemies will close in on G
- RL1 may launch a missile

Turn 2:

- Launch missiles at E3 and E4
- Move Fox to M4 going through M
- Remaining enemies will move to

Turn 3:

- Launch missiles at E1 and E2
- Slippy joins the fray. Have hi
Fox
- Send Fox to attack RL1
- E5 will head towards Great Fox

Turn 4:

- Engage E5 with Fox

Combat Tips:

- Take care to destroy any missi
- Flash Bombers are slow. Charge

MISSION COMPLETE!

Listen to Slippy's introduction
of Lucy and update on Peppy,
then choose option 1, "Set
Course for Fachina"

After arriving at Fichina,
listen to the conversation, then
prepare to enter battle.

=========================9.43) M

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy

Unlike last mission, Fog of War
on additional playthroughs is
totally different.
________________________________
| ===== ..................E3..S1
....==|E1- 1 Fire Wheel <<<
|       ===    .................
| ..E1...................EB1...|
E3- 2 Shurikens <<<
|       ====    ..............  
| =====================
======|EB1- Enemy base defended
by a | Fox
======================
======|Mothership and 2
Shurikens | ..............===...
........====|RL1- Enemy base
defended by a |Great Fox .......
M1.....===........RL1....|Mother
ship and 3 Bomber Birds
|            ..............===..
|       =========..........====.
|Slippy =========..........====.
|       =========..........====.
|             ..................
|             .......E2.........
|            ==.................
|          =======..............
|        ================.......
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover key locations with the
- Send Fox towards E1
- Send Slippy towards E2
- E1 will engage Fox and E2 will
- EB1 and RL1 may produce enemie

Turn 2:

- Send Slippy to M1 and have him
- Send Fox towards EB1
- E3 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Send Slippy to engage E4
- Send Fox to attack EB1

Turn 4:

- Have Slippy pick up F1 and F2
- Send Fox to attack RL1
- If there are any missiles, hav

Combat Tips:

- The only new enemy here is the
3 directions. Take it out using
charged shots.

BOSS! Star Wolf:

- Same as the last time
- If you're short on fuel, shoot

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back on the Great Fox, Lucy
mentions that Andrew Oikonny is
in charge of the Fichina
invasion. Choose option 1 to
continue on this path


=====================9.44) Missi

Planet: Fichina
Characters: Fox, Slippy and Lucy

This time, the mission is
exactly as it was in the first
path
________________________________
|..................E2....S2.....
.............|E1- 1 Assault
Laser< |.F1.....M2..............
................B2..|E2- 2 Web
Ships <
|.........============..........
|...B1..........................
.............|B1- Enemy base
defended by a |.................
......................E3...|Moth
ership and 2 Web Ships |........
................................
....|B2- Enemy base defended by
a |..............X..............
...............|Mothership and 3
Shurikens |.....................
.......................|B3-
Enemy base defended by a | =====
=======.................|Mothers
hip and 3 Bomber Birds
|               ................
| Lucy          ................
|               ..........F2....
|       Fox       ..............
|                   ..==========
|                      .........
| Great Fox Slippy
.M1......E1.....S1....|
|                      .........
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover B1, M and E1 using you
- Move Slippy towards M1
- Move Fox up between the two im
- Move Lucy straight to B1 to de
- E1 will engage Slippy
- E2 will move towards Lucy

Turn 2:

- Uncover E3, F2 and B2
- Move Slippy to F2
- Move Fox closer to B2 where he
- Have Lucy pick up F1, M2 and h
and the top of the map
- E2 will engage Lucy
- E3 will engage Fox

Turn 3:

- Uncover E5, B3 and B2
- Send Fox to B2
- Fire a missile at any enemies 
- Send Slippy to B3

BOSS! Death Crab:

- Same as last time
- Fuel shouldn't be a problem si
a fuel cell

After battle, watch or skip the
dialogue, then choose to unlock
option 2, "Check out Corneria"
to continue the path with Lucy.

Lucy arrives at Corneria to
discover that the planet is
under Anglar control. She is
worried about her father, Peppy.


=====================9.45) Missi

Planet: Corneria
Characters: Lucy

Holy missiles Batman! This map
is covered with missile
powerups, and plenty of enemies
to use them on.
________________________________
| |E1- 12 Swarm Fighters < |E8
Great Fox |E2- 6 Swarm Fighters
< | ======= M1 |E3- 2 Elite
Fighters <
|             ========          
| ==== E7 ======== |E5- 10
Commanders <
|   ======     M10  ======      
| ====== F1 ===== |E7- 2 Flash
Bombers <
|      ====    C3     ======    
|       ====           ===      
|        ====     M7            
|          =====         M4     
|          =====     E3         
|           ==== M8             
|  E6              C2      M5   
|                               
|          E5    M9             
|    EM1                E4      
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- If you have any missiles, use 
- Move Lucy to M1, C1, M2 and st
- All enemies and rockets will m

Turn 2:

- Fire missiles at the three clo
- Move Lucy through M4, M5, C1 a
enemy missile will be
- E4 and E5 will engage Lucy

Turn 3:

- Fire missiles at the 3 remaini

Combat Tips:

- Against E4, just use a bomb wh
- Against E5, attack and kill th
when close and charged shots
when far

MISSION COMPLETE!

Back on the Great Fox, Peppy
lectures Lucy and says that he
must find Fox to help him.
Choose "Head to Titania to
follow Peppy as he meets up with
Fox and the crew.

Peppy catches up to Fox to
inform him that Andross had
developed a device to terraform
Venom to make it a more
hospitable place, and hid the
device on Titania. Peppy points
out that this device would be
the only way to survive in the
currently acidic Venom sea.

========================9.46) Mi

Planet Titania Characters: Fox,
Falco, Slippy and Peppy

Fox's original crew reunites.
This mission relies heavily on
the use of the allied bases to
quickly reach the enemy bases.
________________________________
|.........................EM2...
.............|E1- 3 Balloonists
<< |.RL1......F2.........EB2.
............|E2- 1 King Dodora
<<< |..EM1.E2.....==========. E1
...........|EB1- Enemy base
defended by a
|............============ C2
..........|Mothership and 1 Fire
Wheel |... ..============
...........|EB2- Enemy base
defended by a |.. ..==========
............|Mothership and 1
stingray |. C4 ...======..M1....
...............|RL2- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended |..
F1............=====
.............|by a Mothership
and 2 wide ships |... ..........
....=======..........===|RL2-
Enemy rocketlauncher defended |.
RL2.======....EB1......=======..
...... ===|by a Mothership and 4
MiniGrunners
|....========...........  ===== 
|    ========                   
|     ======       ===      C1  
|                ========       
|=======         ============   
|=======    C3  =============   
|======= =============Peppy
Great Fox|
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Uncover the enemy bases
- Send Fox to RL2 through C1 and
- Send Peppy to EB1 through C1
- Send Falco North through C1 to
- Send Slippy through C1 and C2 
- E1 will engage Falco or Slippy
- All enemies and missiles will 

Turn 2:

- Defog anything on the map that
- Send Fox to RL1 through C4
- Send Peppy to intercept E2 and
- Send Falco to pick up M1 and i
- Send Slippy to RL1 through EB2

Combat Tips:

- Use bombs against the King Dod
- The mini Grunners go down easi
- The ships at RL1 shoot the gro
shots from the side work best on
them

After the map is cleared, you
recieve a message from the ghost
of Andross saying that you will
never retrieve the device from
his bio weapon. A boss fight
begins with his bio weapon.

BOSS! Grunner:

- Pick whoever has the most heal
- Grunner itself has no attacks.
shoot rocks at you and create an
electrical barrier between them
- The best method is to have som
and above the range of the stone
towers' electrical barriers.
- You can only hurt him from beh

MISSION COMPLETE!

After completing the mission,
your team taunts Andross as they
pick up the device.

Back on board Great Fox, the
team ponders how the device
works and decides that it is the
only way to complete their
mission. Fox then announces that
this will be his final mission,
so he can spend the rest of his
life with Krystal.

You arrive at Venom and watch a
short dialogue between Emperor
Anglar and his henchman Zazan
where they discuss how to fight
back the invasion mounted by
Star Fox. Fox then gives the
final order to launch and the
battle begins.


=======================9.47) Mis

Planet: Venom Characters: Fox,
Falco, Slippy and Peppy


This is a fairly straight
forward level with 4 characters.
________________________________
|.......====..E3................
.............|E1- 2 Bee Fighters
<<< |.RL2...====.....RL1....E1..
.............EB2.|E2- 1 Mega
Spindly Fish << |.......====....
.........................E2..|E3
- 2 Web Ship IIs <<< |........==
==.........=====................
..|EB1- Enemy base defended by a
|..........====.......=====.S1..
====.........|Mothership and 6
Dual Fighters |.......F1...==...
....=====.....====.........|EB2-
Enemy base defended by a |......
.........................====...
......|Mothership and an Anglar
ace |...====..................EB
1...====.........|RL1- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended |EM1====
=.......................====....
.....|by a Mothership and Anglar
ace |....=====..................
...=====.........|RL2- Enemy
rocketlauncher defended
|......====.......====......====
|......====.......====.....=====
|..M2..====.....  ====     =====
|....=====         M1      =====
|...=====                       
|.........Peppy           Slippy
|......... Fox Great Fox Falco
.........|
|_______________________________

Turn 1:

- Defog the enemy bases/rocket l
- Send Peppy to M1 and wait for 
- Have Fox move towards RL2
- Send Falco to attack EB1
- Send Slippy east then north to
- E1 will engage Falco
- E2 will engage Slippy unless d
- Enemy bases may produce enemie

Turn 2:

- Defog what's needed
- Send Fox to attack RL2
- Send Falco to RL1
- Have Slippy attack EB2
- Have Peppy intercept EM1
- Enemy bases may produce enemie

Turn 3:

- Finish off any enemies/missile

Combat Tips:

- Against the two Anglar aces, y
- They fight similarly to the St
- Shoot their mines for extra fu
to take them down

BOSS! Arrow Head:

- Little bit harder this time
- Will fly into the tubes on the
- Attack the pieces of the snake
- Destroyed pieces will fall to 
- Once all middle pieces are des
it. Just fire away at the head
while dodging the attacks
- For an easier time, use a bomb

After the Arrow Head is
destroyed, Emperor Anglar
himself will escape through one
of the tubes.

BOSS! Emperor Anglar:

- Anglar is protected by a force
- His attack is a stream of shot
- Shoot the orbs until they turn
- Anglar will charge up a shot a
shot back to him
- After the reflected shot hits 
as many shots on it as you can
- When at half his life, he will
to be destroyed. During this
phase, large solid beams will
fly in from every direction
- After the 3 orbs are destroyed
uses some attacks he seems to
have learned from Andross
- First he will suck in air. Use
- After he sucks in, he will blo
your roll
- During this time, just pound a

MISSION COMPLETE!

After the battle, the team
shares an emotional goodbye. ROB
locates Krystal on Sauria, and
Fox takes off to catch up with
her.

PATH 4 COMPLETE!


================================

Ending 1: Emperor Anglar

"The members of Star Fox had
reunited once more! Again they
put differences to one side and
took the fight to the enemy. And
when the dust cleared, peace had
once again returned to Lylat.
Yet Fox is still troubled by
complicated feelings...

Months pass. One dark day,
Krystal makes a startling
confession: "I'm sorry, Fox! I
can't do this anymore. I'm going
back to be with Panther and the
rest of Star Wolf." Fox was
overcome with grief and begged
Krystal to stay... but her mind
was set.

Once again, Fox McCloud was
forced to wander the world
alone... and unloved. But
Krystal has no such regrets. She
is perhaps the toughest of all
the pilots, and she proves it by
starting a new life in the elite
Star Wolf squadron..."

After viewing the ending, you
are presented with the Key of
Destiny, which allows you to
unlock other paths and endings.


Ending 2: Pigma's Revenge

"Falco is consumed with rage. If
all had gone to plan, he, Fox,
and all the rest would be
heroes, writ large upon a
galactic stage, reveling in
endless retellings of their
voctory. Instead, fate has seen
fit to ostracize Falco from the
Star Fox squadron.

And then, just when things were
bleakest, Falco got a message
from Katt Monroe. 'Forget those
losers! Grab a couple of friends
and form a new squad!' Falco was
usually too stubborn to heed
advice, but this message came at
the right time.

Falco took Katt up on her offer,
and they went hunting for a
third pilot, eventually finding
their man--an elite Cornerian
pilot named Dash! Together the
three of them formed Star Falco,
a unit that rivaled even Star
Fox."


Ending 3: Lucy and Krystal

"With the battle over and the
day won, the entire team chips
in to prepare a huge celebratory
feast. Everyone stays up eating
and drinking and telling stories
long into the night.

Peppy and Lucy slip away to
reminisce about Vivian Hare, the
wife and mother they lost to
illness many years ago. Bringing
up memories both joyful and
bittersweet, father and daughter
sit and talk until the morning
light.

And Krystal and Fox, reunited
after so long, are finally able
to speak of their true feelings
for each other. With new hope
for the future, and a pledge of
eternal love from Fox, Krystal
decides to rejoin team Star
Fox."


Ending 4: Good-bye, Fox

"The Star Fox members vote to
disband the squadron, and Fox
promises to spend his days
living a quiet life with
Krystal. But if a new threat
threatens the peace, will Fox
keep his promise? To never fight
again is a hard thing to ask of
a warrior...

Their son, Marcus, grows into a
fine young pup, and the Fox
family enjoys a happy life
together. Marcus enters the
Cornerian Academy and follows
his father's path. The apple
does not fall far from the tree,
as Marcus is gifted with
unbelievable flying skill.

Marcus soon forms an elite
squadron to defend peace
wherever it is threatened. He
teams up with Slippy's son and
Peppy's granddaughter, and
tracks down legendary pilot
Falco Lombardi. And with that, a
new Star Fox is born"



========================11. Freq

Q: Are other ships available in
Wi-Fi and Download play? A:
Right now it seems as though
only Fox's Arwing is available
in multiplayer games.

Q: I'm writing a FAQ. Can I use
_________ from your FAQ in mine?
A: No. Nothing in this FAQ took
very much work, so you have no
excuse not to do your own
___________.

Q: How do you stop
rolling/boosting/braking? A:
Just tap the screen to stop
whatever manouver you are in.


============================12. 

This guide is the copywrite of
Black Turtle. All Star Fox
characters and games are the
property of Nintendo.

If you wish to post this guide
on your website, please email me
at blackturtle2112@gmail.com. I
will more than likely give you
permission to post my guide, but
it will also give me a way to
contact you if/when I update it
so that your site will have the
most recent version.

A list of sites allowed to post
this guide is found here:

www.gamefaqs.com
www.neoseeker.com
www.cheatcc.com
www.1up.com
www.supercheats.com
www.gamerhelp.com

If you see any site not listed
here which has this guide
posted, please let me know.


================================

Nintendo- for releasing such a
great game and for providing me
with countless hours of
entertainment over the years

CJayC- for starting up and
maintaining such an awesome site
(what FAQ is complete without
this?)

My little brother- for begging
for the original Star Fox for
Christmas back in the SNES days
and getting me into such a great
series

Ben the bear- for being my
inspiration. OH BOY BEN THE
BEAR!