--------------------------------
www.lordyuanshu.com
Walkthroughs with pics
Suikoden Tierkreis DS

www.lordyuanshu.com/category/sui
koden-tierkreis-ds

1 www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-citro-characters-faq-
guide 2
www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-janam-empress-consort-
mission-requests 3
www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-walkthrough-porpos-
kin-chronicles 4
www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-faq-pharamond-mission-
recruits 5
www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-guide-cragbark-shams 6
www.lordyuanshu.com/suikoden-
tierkreis-walkthrough-recruit-
lugenik

--------------------------------
Index
a) Updates
b) Introduction
c) Walkthrough
d) Recruit 108 Starbearers
e) Ending

--------------------------------
a) Updates March 25 2009 - Guide
started April 07 2009 - Guide
about 99% completed.

--------------------------------
b) Introduction

This walkthrough FAQ is for
Suikoden Tierkreis DS. This FAQ
can be viewed with pictures at

www.lordyuanshu.com/category/sui
koden-tierkreis-ds

This walkthrough FAQ may not be
changed, redistributed,
plagiarized, and so on. If you
would like to host the FAQ give
me an email and we will talk,
but for the time being it will
only be on lordyuanshu.com and
Gamefaqs. Thanks again, enjoy.

Contact Lordyuanshu at http://ww
w.lordyuanshu.com/forums/

--------------------------------
c) Suikoden Tierkreis
Walkthrough Guide

This is the beginning of the
Suikoden Tierkreis Walkthrough
FAQ. Note that throughout the
guide, all optional / missable
recruits are recruited as early
as possible, so use the ctrl + F
search function to find any
character.

The game starts off with an
unnamed Hero from Citro Village,
who unfortunately talks so fast
you'd think he's on speed. Hero
is very different from past
Suikoden main characters, his
lone comparable would be Hugo
but even Hugo wasn't as immature
as our mysterious Citro Village
warrior. He has some close
companions with Jale and Marica,
and a kid named Liu who came
around mysteriously.

Citro Village

Hero wakes up to some
shenanigans with Liu and Marica.
Marica joins you while Liu
follows along (meaning Liu
cannot be used in battle and is
in your entourage). Press Y to
check out Marica and Hero if you
like, then save with the blue
thing nearby at the Gathering
Place. Where is Jale? Elder
Rajim is Marica's father and you
will need to talk to him too,
but first Dirk calls you from
the Town Square.

Talk to the villagers to learn
about your already-capable
allies, and of the strange Liu.
Dirk is the blue-clad guy you
first see, he's an ordinary guy
but he's older and experienced.
After some deliberating, Hero
and friends decide to take on
Mission 1 at the Eastern Hills,
which is to quell the laggarts
rebellion. Tell Dirk you are
ready to go.

Leave the square and go to the
Elder's House. You meet Sisuca,
Marica's sister and Hero's new
mother. Rajim speaks with you,
and they don't want you to go,
but exit out and head to the
General Store to get Jale. He is
a smart, quiet young man, and
hands you Medicine x4 which he
said he bought for you (though
he received it for free). Jale
is a monk-type fighter with bare
fists for now.

Talk to the people in this area
before you head out, and get
used to the shop set-up. There
is a trade shop where you can
trade in hide from monsters or
other items you come across in
your adventures. This is really
one of the only reasonable ways
to get Potch in Suikoden
Tierkreis. Different prices at
different places (seasons might
change things too, not sure), so
try to keep a general idea so
you can buy low / sell high.
There is a weapon / armor /
accessory shop here, but you
won't have the Potch to do much
here until after Mission 1.

Speaking of, go to the town
square to get the details from
the elder. Some more goofiness
from the kiddies, then you can
head out of town with your party
of four. The Laggart's Lair
seems to be on the Eastern Hill.
Outside of the village, you can
fight around for a few levels if
you want, trying out the Defense
Corps unite attack (though it
doesn't seem that powerful to
me). Normal attacks should
suffice most of the time, make
use of the auto-normal fight
tactic to speed up an already
quick system. Note that your HP
is restored upon gaining a new
level. Dirk likely won't gain
any but getting the rest up to 2
or 3 helps.

Farmer's Village

Southeast of Citro is Farmer's
Village, where a man named
Yadima greets you. Liu happens
to know him. Not much you can do
here but he also complains about
the Laggarts. Northeast of here
to reach the Eastern Hills - as
you get close, Dirk gives you
the run-down on how physical
attacks work. There are three
types
- slash attacks, pierce attacks,
  and strike attacks. Slash
  attacks would be a
one-handed sword, pierce attacks
being bow / arrow and spears,
while strike attacks would be
fists or the Hero's Cudgel.

Citro Plains - Eastern Hills

As you enter, two Laggarts come
out and attack. Not to hard to
mop them up, but some members
sense something eerie ahead.
Don't go back, just head east in
and the path will start to go
northwest for a Mega Medicine.
At the next intersection go west
again for Cherry Incense, which
is useful in that it heals all
party members. Northeast to
exit, but make use of the save
point before you go.

In the new area, check out the
nice scenery and follow the path
until your party camps for the
night. Time to go back, but as
you reach the cliff some strange
energy flows and you see a
Guardian off in the forest. Hero
begins to see things that the
others don't. The party decides
to check out the Forest Ruins,
and the party will then
magically appear at Flesaria
Forest East, and the Hero's
funny imagination rears it's
head again.

Save and then make your way into
the west ruins. New enemies like
Thorn Mushrooms are in here, and
monsters like this are doing
20-25 damage now instead of the
5-10 you were dealing with
earlier. Remember, all the
Cotton Threads and other
tradable items you are earning,
you will be able to turn this
into Potch (makes up for not
earning any fighting enemies).
Continue west in the ruins until
you reach Skull Guts. Strange
but powerful enemy here, doing
25 or so damage with regular
attacks. Use Medicine if you
need to, and just regular
attack. It probably will take
off more than using all 4
characters for Defense Corps
unite. Iron Ore obtained.

More Skull Guts come your way.
You can choose to plow through
them, or run to the other end.
Turns out it is a dead end, but
something is shining in the
light. It's a strange book that
provides a sensation for Hero,
Marica and Jale. The three then
have a renewed confidence from
this, because they can now use
the Mark of the Stars. This is
essentially Rune Magic from past
Suikoden's, except of course you
have a standard MP count instead
of 6 level 1 spells, 3 level 2
spells, etc. Anyway, Hero can
use fire magic - Fire Breath.
Jale can use a Bind Flash
ability for 100 points and
Prlyss (low probability).
Finally, Marica has Water Rune
type magic, able to heal 1 ally
with Healing Gleam. Use the two
attack spells for 100-110 damage
on these Skull Guts, and you
should have no problem (use
Healing Gleam if you have to).
Iron Ore x3 obtained and
probably will level up to around
6.

Afterwards, Liu and Dirk attempt
to touch this mysterious book,
but they don't acquire the same
powers the other three did. The
party leaves with this Shining
Legacy book, and this time the
Hero and Jale seem to think the
forest was a valley. The group
agrees they shouldn't talk about
this in public. Mission 1 is
completed.

Citro Village

Return all the way back to Citro
Village. The village is a ruckus
as a Marica lookalike stormed
through asking about a Renegade.
She was swinging a battle axe
around though, something Marica
would not do. Seems this clone
has went off to the northern
forest, which is Mission 2 for
you now.

Before leaving though, save, and
hit up the Trading Post. Sell
off all that loot you can across
from enemies, for 3000-4000
worth of Potch hopefully. Buy a
bunch of Leather Armor for your
main three combatants, and then
some accessories too if you
like. This should get their
defense up to speed. As you
leave the village, Dirk stays
back. You don't need his help
anymore, he claims.

Flesaria Forest

Jale says that the Flesaria
Forest just appeared out of no
where. Jale also tells about the
three seasons, each lasting 30
days; Sprout, Bud and Flower. It
only takes two days to reach
Flesaria Forest, so choose it on
the main map and go there.

Just as you enter, you see a
Wanderer Caravan. Talk to these
merchant types, Hotupa the guy
and Moana the lady. They seem to
have an idea as to who this
Marica clone is. Hotupa joins
your entourage (not your active
battle party).

The enemies within Flesaria
Forest are nothing to write home
about, though having that new
armor from Citro Village
certainly can't hurt. The
enemies only do 15-25 damage,
but monsters like Fanged Baboons
have a bit of HP. Googly Tree
Buds, Geldi Monkeys and Saw
Kingfishers are everywhere.
Southeast in this initial area
is a dead end, but you can talk
to one of the Wanderer's in the
center to rest (this guy senses
something amiss as well).
Northeast to exit to a new area.

As you walk around here, strange
men come about. A middle aged
man and a young man are looking
for something, but they stop you
and mess with you for a bit, but
eventually leave. Take the
southeast route now until you
reach a Black Monster. It is a
Saw Kingfisher, but this one is
different - magic takes off
little on it. Physical attacks
are probably best, and stay
healed, though a mysterious
woman dispatches the enemy
eventually.

Uh, her name is Marica too.
Marica? They are the same person
but this Marica alludes that
there is 'another world' out
there. Hotupa knows about this
multiple worlds. This Marica
came from the northern Fortress
Ruins. Probably worth checking
out. This new 'Marica?' is
skilled, with a strong attack
and some neat abilities -
Autoshield (sometimes raises
physical defense at battle
start), Heavy Tremor (200%
physical damage but unbalanced),
and Vengeance (raises counter
rate). Also Healing Gleam. Put
her on the front lines.

Southeast from here is an exit
to the world map, but go north
and west a ways to reach a
sideways blue square, meaning a
new area in the forest. Follow
the path but when you get a
chance, go north and wrap west
for a Mint. East for another
fork and southeast for a Mega
Medicine. Northeast now for a
Save Point and a strange ruins.

Forest Ruins

Go north for the Weathered
Forest Ruins. Hotupa checks
things out, and then you can go
west to enter these ruins. West
some more through the
passageway, and southwest out
towards the light. South at the
next upside down T leads you to
where Marica? came. It is a
gateway. Hotupa knows a great
deal about these as evidently
all Wanderer's seem to.
Different gateways lead to
different worlds.

Just as you are chatting about
this, a Renegade enemy comes out
of the portal and right by you.
You have to follow it and kill
it - the second Marica tells you
that only someone from the
Renegade monsters original world
can kill it. Which is why she
went through the portal to come
here in the first place. Go to
the entrance of these ruins to
catch up to the Renegade Saw
Kingfisher. Powerful attacks at
about 40-50 to front line
characters, but you can dodge
this somewhat frequently. Heal
if you must, Heavy Tremor is
nice though you become
unbalanced. Regular attacks
would be fine too. Mega Medicine
is your reward and your level
probably reaches 10.

It is now time for Marica? to
return to her original world. Go
to that gateway warp, and Hero
gets the idea to go with her!
Everyone else kind of then goes
along with it. You at first
reach a Corridor. This is like a
purgatory of sorts on your way
to a new world. Everyone then
takes the path to the other
Marica's world...but Hero can't
seem to go there. He keeps
ending up at the Corridor.
Everyone returns to the Corridor
to talk about it. Hotupa says
that some unlucky individuals
cannot go through gateways to
different worlds, Hero must be
one of these people (though it
is not said exactly why).

The party then leaves as Marica
2 finally goes to her initial
world. Mission 2 accomplished.
Back out at your world at the
Forest Ruins, Hotupa asks to
touch the book. Sure enough, he
sees the same vision of people
fighting that Jale, Hero and
Marica did. Hotupa tells you of
a huge library at Cynas, north
of here. Wanderers like Hotupa
can also 'seal' these gateways
so monsters and anyone else
cannot enter (though they can be
unsealed by other Wanderers).
Hotupa joins you - he is an axe
wielder who can use Earth Rune-
type magic with Defense Shield
(ups physical defense for 5
turns).

Leave the gateway area and
Hotupa talks about the town
before Cynas, Grayridge Village.
Further west now but the party
is reminded that they need to go
report back to Marica's dad at
Citro Village. Liu tells them to
go on, and that he'll go back
and tell them. Liu is no longer
a companion.

After this, Moana comes by and
tells you about making Potch.
She sets up side quest missions
to defeat monsters, fetch
quests, etc. So before you
leave, head back east into the
Ruins area. It seems to have
been cleaned up, and you can
talk to Moana or save your game.
Report on the two missions you
have completed so far. For
reporting on 'Get Rid of Eastern
Laggarts', you acquire 500
potch, then reporting on 'Track
Down Marica's Double' nets you a
Bone Axe. No new quests to take
on, so head out west to the
front entrance (west from the
gateway). Choose Flesaria Forest
North.

Flesaria Forest Nth

Watch out for the Mossball's
around here, they have a slime-
type magic attack for 40-45
damage, and it may cause Poison.
Travel northwest as you enter,
ignoring the northeast path (it
leads to a beautiful dead end
but a dead end nonetheless).
Once you get to the middle area
with a few paths, go southwest
until you reach the next area.

Take the north route right away,
which leads to a sign. Gineh
Valley to the west, Grayridge
Village to the eastern path
going north, the one towards
Grayridge. Exit out and you can
now make your way to Grayridge.

Grayridge Village

Once a bustling mining town,
Grayridge is now suffering with
the mines being closed. Mining
has been closed for 20 years. Go
to the Inn to speak to a lady
clerk, who talks about the Order
of the One True Way. The people
here are followers of The Order.
Rest and save here if you want,
then go to the Vendor Trade
Shop. It is indeed robbery here,
but do make use of the trade
market for cashing in your
Herbal Medicine / Wool Varn and
anything else you have in
quantity. Interesting people at
the Alley, namely the kid on the
far right.

Finally, head to Outside Ch
Hall. You will see Logan and
Gilliam arguing, as Logan wants
to see his daughter. Go up to
talk to Gilliam to ask for a
Pass, but evidently you have to
wait 5 days for it! The party is
in outrage and Secretary Macoute
hears it. What a guy he is. You
are also introduced to the
Innkeeper's daughter Erin. After
this talk, your mission is
accomplished.

Time to return to the Inn to
rest. Logan is the Innkeeper and
after some talking, you'll be in
your room. Erin comes in and it
turns out she's just pretending
to follow Secretary Macoute. Her
father is happy to hear this as
he thought she really went to
the dark side. Anyway, Logan
joins you (in place of Hotupa).
Erin tells of an abandoned mine
near town. Go there once you are
ready.

As you enter, Logan and Erin try
to touch the book. Turns out
Erin and Logan see the same
images of people fighting
fiercely. They both learn Mark
of the Stars abilities, but
since Erin is not in the party
you cannot see her stats yet.
Logan though learns Melt Attack,
60% physical damage + no element
during turn. Up ahead you see a
lift, which Logan explains. But
you cannot use it until you are
on your way up.

Gray Turtles lurk. They do about
30 damage with physical attacks,
but also have a hide function
that doubles their defense, so
you'll take off a meager 15
damage. But often times all
three will use the hide function
so they essentially waste a
turn, even if their defense is
higher. Spiked Lizards do about
the same damage, maybe more like
35-40 damage. Shell Baboons
aren't much to speak of either.

Take the eastern route since you
cannot use the lift, and it will
wrap north and west. At the
upside-down T, the south path
leads to a ladder going down
that you saw by the lift in the
south. Silkworm Cocoons are down
here, and if you attack them
physically (at least hand-to-
hand), you will get poisoned (or
cursed?) Use magic of course.
Follow this path all the way
southeast until you reach an
Iron Shield, which would be nice
if you have a character who used
a shield.

Back up the ladder and to that
upside-down T. This time go
west. This leads to another
upside-down T. West is a dead
end. Or so it looks to be.
Travel west through the wall,
then south, and east through
another wall for a Revival
Statue. You can assume what this
item does - revives a member,
but only in battle since the
dead are restored after battle
at 1 HP (not that you know
though, I doubt you've died...)
Return to the path and continue
north to a T, with a ladder to
the west. Take the east route
though, and go east through the
wall for an Iron Sword. Not
really sure what to do with this
since Hero should probably stay
with the Cudgel, and if you got
the Bone Axe for the second
Mission, you might have that on
Jale already (and it's stronger
than the Iron Sword). Actually
though Hero can equip the Iron
Shield with it (which is +20
defense) and that makes up for
the lost attack from the Cudgel.
Might want to put Hero on the
middle part of the front line
after this. Back to the T and go
west down the ladder to B1.

Seems there is a gateway down a
few floors according to Hotupa.
He explains that with this
gateway, we could simply use it
and return to the one in the
Forest Ruins. You cannot use it
here though, even if you try
Marica makes the decision for
you. Take the southwest route
into a glowing yellow room.
Follow the path south until you
reach an upside down T; north is
a quick dead end, so continue
east for another fork. The south
route is a dead end, so go all
the way east and then south for
a long ways until you reach a
west / south fork. Head south to
grab an Iron Ore, then take that
west path. Another west / south
fork, but just go west for a
ladder going down to B2.

Save and rest up. Since a save
point is here, something
important is probably coming up.
It's a big, red, Six-Eyed Worm.
Don't bother with Bind Fist,
Fire Breath, and Melt Attack -
physical attacks are 2 to 3
times more powerful in this
fight. Six-Eyed Worm has a
weaker attack for 20+ on each
member that it likes to use. It
will also use a physical attack
but that can be dodged close to
50% of the time with the Hero,
and it's only slightly stronger
(30-35 damage). Eventually you
might get stunned, so be sure to
have people ready to use
Medicine to keep your HP up in
case you cannot act when you
need to heal later. Close to
1500 HP will do this monster in,
and you will likely get near
level 15, along with a Bone Club
and Gold Ore as rewards.

Give the Bone Club to Logan
(Hero still has the Iron Sword /
Shield combo), then return back
to save at the save point.
Further east to reach the lift,
but you aren't taking it yet
without going further in. Sure
enough, east some more and you
are in a room with a ton of
treasure. This seems to be where
they are hiding it. Macoute has
been embezzling all the jewelry
and such.

Check out the book for a vision.
Grab the Noble Steel book. All
of your members will gain a
powerful new Mark of the Stars
ability, so check it out. Hero
has Masterpiece for an automatic
critical hit, while Marica has
the valuable Rain of Spears for
water damage on all enemies.
Jale's Two-Way Strike is nice at
200% damage but does damage to
himself. You've seen
Logan'sTremor before, it leaves
you unbalanced.

Ride the elevator up, then go
south to exit the mine. But
Macoute is here waiting with
Gilliam. Gilliam doubts Macoute,
but you must fight Gilliam with
two Cynas Conscripts. The Cynas
Conscripts use physical attacks,
but take off just 15-20 HP.
Gilliam is not much better,
though he has a powerful attack
of his own for about 50-90
damage but he becomes unbalanced
from using it. Rain of Spears by
Marica is nice to wear everyone
down - Gilliam has a high
defense, so you might want to
purge the Conscripts and then
work on him. He has a bit over
1000 HP I believe, but once he
is alone it will go quick
especially with the Bone Club
carving him up. Two Revival
Statues, a Broadsword and an
Iron Mail are your rewards. Give
the Broad Sword to Hero to go
with his still awesome Iron
Shield. Iron Mail is very nice,
give it to Jale to improve his
defense.

Macoute then has his world fall
down on him. Gilliam goes to
report on him, but you tell him
not to. Back at Grayridge, save
your game then head to the shop
to sell off your tradeable items
you scavenged. The stuff here is
still very expensive so it's
debatable as to whether you
should buy it. Go to the alley
and talk to the first girl at
the top that you see. This is
Anya, someone who complains
about Macoute.

Outside Ch Hall, you will be
escorted to see Logan and Erin.
Macoute finally gives you your
pass to go to Cynas. Hero
mentions that strange Noble
Steel book, but Macoute knows
nothing about it. On your way
out, 'Filthy Rich' the Shady
Man, stops you. He thanks you
for going further as he won some
money. Don't worry about
recruiting him yet, you'll see
him again.

Head back to the Inn to talk to
Erin and Logan once more. You
have a new mission - to take
Erin along with you to Cynas to
see exactly what this order is
about. Logan wants to come with
but he has to stay back and
support Grayridge Village. It
seems Fort Arc is before Cynas,
according to Hotupa. Return to
the Inn - Erin is a support
member who restores HP of one
ally per turn, so put her in as
support. Hotupa can re-join the
party, though he is underleveled
compared to your other members
(probably at level 9 or so).

Fort Arc

North of Grayridge is the Order
military base, Fort Arc.Not much
to do here besides talk to the
guards and go through. However
you see that strange duo you saw
at the forest earlier, and the
yellow armor clad Captain rushes
in to make sure they are allowed
to go through.

Cynas

Finally, you reach Cynas after
this. Automatically you explore
around, meeting a flirtatious
man who runs off. Unfortunately
though, since a dissident is
running around they close The
Tower of the Way which is what
you wanted to enter. Check out
the rest of town - not much to
sell at the trade shop, but the
Weapon Shop has much more
reasonable prices than the
Grayridge Shop you visited
previously. Load up on new
accessories for your mage types
and front line fighters. The
Order Bow is nice for Hotupa and
/ or Marica. Iron Talons can go
to Jale and the Broad Sword is
good on Hero. Buy some body
armor (Thundergod Garb's are
fine).

Go to the Inn when you want to
advance the story. In the middle
of the night, an old man gets
sick. Evidently, you can't get a
doctor, as the clerk stops you.
It is predetermined whether the
man will recover or not, and you
will all get arrested if you get
a doctor. Thankfully, the old
man is well by the next day.
However, he is upset you helped
him as he doesn't want to get
labeled a dissident himself!
These people are even crazier
than the Grayridge folk. Anyway,
the next day the party is able
to get into the Tower of the
Way.

Hero asks the Archivist about
the strange Citro Forest Ruins
book he came across, but the
Archivist needs to have it for
some time to know. But the
strange Young Man and middled
aged man are right there, so it
might not be a good idea to
leave it there. The Young Man
mentions something about Diadora
(the archivist) and then the
middle aged guy says the book is
a False Chronicle. The young man
seems to be named Conon and the
middle aged man Fergus. Fergus
then knows the Mark of the Stars
is in your power.

Meanwhile, the party discusses
the situation. Not much else
they could have done but ran
with the books, as those other
two guys surely know about them.
Your mission is accomplished,
but you have to get out of here
as a new Mission is accepted.

However, as you leave the Tower,
an Order Soldier tells you that
Lord Chancellor Valfred is about
to share some words of wisdom.
Valfred addresses the followers
of the Order of the One True
Way. He speaks well, and
lightning strikes just as he
prophesizes. After the speech,
you see those Archivists running
after you. Neither side will
budge, so these two fight you.
You only do 5-10 damage on these
guys no matter what you use, but
their attacks are not that
powerful either. Just stay
rested. Note that they seem to
have a Mark of the Stars
themselves. After three turns,
the battle is over.

General Vaslof shows up after
this. He is one of the 'Auster
Folk'. They are a tribe of
giants in the northeast
mountains, that look similar to
the FFX Ronso. He actually
sympathizes with your side and
allows you to run off. Not much
else to do here, so bail on the
town of Order and go to Fort
Arc.

Fort Arc

Just as you get by the guards,
it turns out there is an
emergency order from
headquarters to arrest two boys,
two girls, and a Wanderer. Uh
oh. Just run south out of Fort
Arc.

Grayridge

Seems Grayridge is safe, but
something is amiss Outside Ch
Hall. Strange indeed, the
Captain says that they order
troops are headed south...to
subjugate Citro Village! Erin
runs off to the Inn to talk to
her dad, and the party follows.
Afterwards, you can go talk to
people down the alley. Talk to
Anya with Erin in your party for
some added dialogue. Back to the
Inn to talk to Logan.

He doesn't know anything since
the Order Army doesn't tell him.
Gilliam might but it would be
too hard to see him. Instead,
the party decides to hurry to
Citro Village, with use of the
Gateway at the Grayridge Mine.
Logan has a rope to use. Your
Mission is accomplished, and you
now have a new one - head back
to Citro through the Forest
Ruins and the mine.

At the Grayridge Mine, you bump
into Semias. He bets you 100
potch that you will run into him
again, as he has to leave the
area because of The Order. Go up
to that lift when you regain
control, and take it to the
cellar. From there, you have to
retrace your footsteps back up
to the area with the glowing
gateway below (or ignore the
mine elevator and just go down
the northwestern stairs on the
1st floor to get there).

The party uses the rope as a
ladder. The gateway indeed leads
to the Forest Ruins in Flesaria
Forest. When you return, ask
your friends (Logan, Erin,
Hotupa for help). Marica and
Jale run off to Citro Village to
gather warriors to fight.

Your remaining members go out of
the gateway area and bump into
Moana. Hotupa tells her what is
going on, and then tell her to
touch the book - she indeed sees
the visions as well. Back in
enemy camp, you see the Order
soldiers with the Captain. They
are told to look for strange
kids using strange powers.
Obviously they are talking about
you, and those strange
Archivists are here too to get
you.

Back in the Forest Ruins, you
are with Logan and Erin. Some of
the wanderers standing cannot
use Mark of the Stars. Marica
and Jale have returned and
everyone is at the grand hall.
Save your game in the center,
then head to the hall. In the
room where Moana is, go north
and then west a bit to reach the
hall. Dirk, Liu and Rajim are
here. The plan is to use your
surrounding forest to your
advantage, fighting this much
larger force one unit at a time.
Rajim reluctantly agrees to have
you guys fight them first at the
fortress. Talk to Liu when you
are ready to get going.

You have 6 members so three
groups of two is the best you
can do. The Hero makes a
confident speech and your new
Mission is accepted and under
way. Looks like Jale and Hotupa
are about to be ganged up on,
but Hero and Marica show up. You
fight two Cynas Conscripts, one
being an archer in the back who
does terrible damage and a
soldier in the front that likes
to defend. Just plow through
with regular attacks. A Revival
Statue is your reward.

Unfortunately, Hero and Marica
then come across an injured
Dirk. Logan runs in too, and the
Archivists are here. Dirk
couldn't handle their Mark of
the Stars. Logan and Dirk flee,
with Marica and Hero preparing
to duel with the Archivists.
This is another pointless battle
where you can only do 5-10
damage on these guys. Again
though, Conon and Fergus don't
do anything scary either. Three
more turns of sparing, and the
battle ends automatically. A
flashing light allows Hero and
Marica to escape. The party
talks some more back at the
castle, but decides to go back
out there to deal with the
Archivists after they learn that
they're right in front of the
castle. Liu actually joins the
party at level 10.

Rest, save, do whatever, then go
out by the Gateway. Keep going
west to the next area to meet
the enemy. Fortunately, an
unidentified allied force comes
from the other side in a pincer
attack! Another set of allies
comes and uses earth magic on
the Order Army. These allies
show up afterwards. Asad,
Captain of the Second Mage
Company of the Magedom of Janam,
and Chrodechild, a female from
the Magedom of Janam who
represents the Blades of Night's
Veil. The Archivists run off
afterwards, and Hafin comes in.
Mission Completed, as you meet
your new friends in the Greeting
Hall.

For some reason, your party is
unsure about the alliance even
though they are humbled. Talk to
Asad to learn that there are
researchers in Janam that study
those mysterious books you own.
Also Chrodechild will talk about
the Kingdom of Astrasia, her
hometown. It was taken over by
The Order Army a few years back
and they've since joined the
coalition against The Order. Go
out and talk to your friends -
you may want to use this time to
report your quests to Moana. The
World's Largest Library Mission
nets you 500 potch. Expose
Macoute's Evil gives you 5000
potch! That is a little nicer.
To The Library at Last! is the
next Mission but it gives you
just 50 potch. Escape from the
Order gives you 5000 potch. Warn
Citro Village nets you 5000
potch and Defend Citro Village
provides 10000 potch. Talk to
everyone in the castle and it is
suggested you go to Citro
Village to talk to Marica's
father.

As you leave the Forest Ruins,
Dirk is all depressed because he
let the party down. Strangely,
Diadora shows up and tries to
convince Dirk to switch sides.
Dirk seems reluctant but
interested at the same time. Now
that you have visited everyone
in the Forest Ruins, just go to
the meeting room and accept
Asad's offer of alliance. Asad
and Chrodechild join Marica and
Hero as they begin their journey
to Janam. Before you leave, Liu
suggests naming your group -
your company name. Choose
whatever you like.

--------------------------------

Now that you have a Company
name, it is time to meet this
Magedom of Janam. Time for us to
head to Janam's Imperial Capital
- the Mage City El-Qaral, by
following the Mislato River
eastward. On the way, Meruvis
comes to alert the Magedom ahead
of time, so that getting an
audience with the Magelord is
easier.

Mislato River

Mislato River is a scenic
pleasure. Luvais greets you as
you enter - you have seen him
before, at Fort Arc. Luvais
helped you by telling the
Magedom about the Order attack,
allowing them to come as
reinforcements. Luvais runs off
but remember him, he'll show up
later on.

Raparo Birds, Stealth Birds and
the like are no match for you
and your new magedom friends.
Travel east on the Mislato
River, through a screen and east
more for a north / east fork.
North leads to a magedom guard
stopping you from going further.
You will run into a few of
these. Continue east to a save
point. Another guard to the
north telling you to go east.
Continue going eastward and you
will see yet another guard to
the south telling you that you
cannot use that path. Further
east, look for a south path that
nets you a Mislato Salmon. Back
north and east to exit out of
Mislato River.

Magedom of Janam - El-Qaral

El Qaral is a lively place. It
is very red. The large building
is where his Lordship Danash
VIII is. Chrodechild leaves the
party as she doesn't want an
audience with the lordship, and
she knows Lady Shairah wouldn't
like it if she showed up either.
Danash VIII greets the Citro
Village Heroes while Hero acts
all immature in front of him.
But he praises you nonetheless,
and Shams is awestruck.

Danish wants you to check out
the Arcane Academy, a place that
knows almost as much about the
Chronicles as Cynas. The Magedom
Chronicle is there as well.
Looks like we will need Rizwan's
help, the Second Empress
Consort. Asad leaves for reasons
unknown. First of all, check out
the weapon shop - there will be
plenty of good weapons here but
it depends which weapons you
like to use for which
characters. Magedom Sword is
nice for Hero to go with the
Iron Shield, while the Silver
Spear, Iron Fists and Iron
GreatSword are nice too (though
the GreatSword doesn't allow you
to have a shield unfortunately).
Fill up your party at the Inn,
giving them the new weapons /
armor.

At the Plaza, you hear of a lady
with a husband in the City of
Salsabil. We will go there
later. Now go towards the Arcana
Academy, where you will meet a
beautiful woman named Rizwan,
who is in charge of the academy.
Further inside you meet the
Chronicle Researcher Mubal. A
new chronicle is shown to you,
and you get yet another vision
about the Mark of the Stars, and
more new powers. You acquire the
Fierce Regalia Chronicle, and
Mubal joins you to see how these
abilities work.

As everyone leaves you and you
prepare to go to your village,
Chrodechild comes by. She gives
you some words of wisdom about
the Magedom and their potential
motives. On your way back to the
Forest Ruins, you will talk to
Mubal a bit about the forest
that 'just appeared'.

Forest Ruins

At HQ, Moana gathers everyone at
the hall. So head there. Hero
tells everyone about the deal
with Janam. Time to officially
designate Forest Ruins as your
headquarters, and you get to
name the Castle. Mission
Accomplished.

Meanwhile, you see a scene with
Lord Chancellor Valfred talking
with Diadora, that archivist
lady. They are looking to regain
the Eighth Chronicle, something
you probably will run across.

After that sequence, Hotupa
senses a strange visitor from
the Gateway and summons Hero.
Atrie has come to this world
from another gate. He says in a
different world there were
different people living in these
Forest Ruins, evidently a much
older, sky-blue armor clad
Warrior. Afterwards, Hotupa and
Hero remember that the character
in the visions they have is the
character the kid described.
Hmm.

Back in the Castle, Moana tells
you of three new requests
already in from the Magedom of
Janam! First of all, report on
To The Magedom of Janam - 10000
potch for this. You also have
these three new requests. Take
1st Empress Consort Shairah's
Mission.

El-Qaral

At El-Qaral, go ahead and meet
up with Shairah. She is actually
General Commander-in-Chief
Shairah, but is more laid back
in public. She has a recon
mission for you, to go to Ladzaa
Fortress. You can get here by
following the Mislato River
north, a previously inaccessible
area with the Magedom Guards
guarding it. Just as you accept
the quest and prepare to go on,
Danash VIII stops you to chat.He
asks that Chrodechild stay back
with him, and then you are
allowed to form a party around
Hero and Asad.

Mislato River

Enter Mislato River, and go west
past the save point. North when
you can, then look for a
northwest bridge that leads to a
Sapphire Rod, very powerful for
someone like Liu. West a bit
more for a Magedom Sword, which
you may have already bought. Now
check the northeast part of this
area for the exit.

A wonderful looking sluice gate
is up ahead - this is Ladzaa
Fortress, in The Order's
control. Head east until you can
go north. From this point, you
should be able to wind back west
and northwest eventually until
you see Meruvis and a jerk named
Roberto, who does not like Hero
at all. Everyone stops the
chatter though to see a
commotion - a strange robed
beast is trying to flee the
order. Despite the fact that you
are not supposed to be involved,
Hero jumps right in and decides
to intercept the Cynas enemies.

These Cynas Conscripts do about
30 damage, but you should maul
them in 3 turns or less. With
the pursuers repelled, the party
stops to meet this Beast-Man
named Cougar. Cougar joins your
active party - put him in the
front line so he can show his
beastly ways. Asad can be thrown
in the back row. Time to make
your way to the Magedom of Janam
so that Cougar can find a doctor
and recover.

Magedom of Janam

As you return with Cougar, Asad
leaves to report what happened.
Meanwhile, head to the Inn but
as you do some people notice
there is a non-human with you.
Eunice and an older guy. Now at
the Inn, the beast-man tells you
more of his past - he is from a
different world, from the Tribe
of the Furious Roar.

In the middle of the story, that
strange guy who saw you comes
in. He is the doctor Zahra and
he wants to treat you! The best
doctor in the Magedom. Eunice
acts as his nurse. Cougar
recovers thanks to this nutty
doctor.

Forest Ruins

Time to head back to the Gateway
in the Forest Ruins, where
Hotupa directs the beast back to
the Furious Roar world.
Unfortunately, Cougar cannot
make his way back and freaks out
over this. At this point, an
aged Wanderer named Wahie comes
out and tells you some good
advice. Cougar cannot use this
gateway, because he needs to use
the one that got him in this
world (which is the gateway at
Ladzaa Fortress). With the
Fortress being under Order
control, Cougar has no where to
go. So Cougar decides to join
your cause in the meantime.
Wahie is also recruited, and you
can meet with him at any time in
the Corridor.

As you exit out and head back
towards the HQ, Zahra and Eunice
are here! They followed you, as
Zahra wants to work on your
allies. And you do need a
doctor, so Zahra and Eunice are
recruited to your company.

Again as you get closer to the
main part of your castle, you
hear that you are under attack
from strange enemies to the
north! They snuck up on the
castle in no time. Head to the
front entrance past the gateway
to find Porpos-Kin? An odd
aquatic tribe from the western
sea. The head porpos demands the
Chronicles, and a battle ensues
with whoever you chose to go
with Hero and Liu. Just gang up
on the Porpos Soldiers up front
to get to the stronger one in
the back, who likes to use skill
that stuns on occasion and does
50 damage. The soldiers have
around 500 HP, with the main
Porpos having a bit more.
Nothing too hard though. 2 Mega
Medicines and a Trident are your
rewards for this victory. The
main Porpos seems to want to
explain things, but then thinks
better of it saying that they
don't trust humans. The porpos
army flees.

More stuff going on back at HQ.
This time it is Dirk paying us a
visit. He walks right in past
the wanderer. Hmm. Act like you
are heading towards the audience
hall / chronicle area, and you
then see a scene. Bad things
happen.

Flesaria Forest North

You then find yourself in
Flesaria Forest. Continue
westward, then north quite a
bit. Eventually you catch up to
the group of Dirk, Nova and the
mysterious woman. Nova is a
strange looking Order officer,
and he challenges you to a
fight. Like the Archivists
fight, you cannot win this, and
will do 10 damage max on him.
Meanwhile, Nova is more powerful
than any other foe so far, doing
80+ damage per regular attack.
Three turns and it's over,
typical Tierkreis un-winnable
battle. Nova and the rest leave
after this.

Forest Ruins

Fortunately, the Chronicles seem
ok. Even though they were
'burned', it seems they were not
harmed at all? Clearly these are
more than just books. This also
explains why you were still able
to use the Mark of the Stars
after the books were 'burned'.

Time to report on the last few
quests you have done. Scout Out
Ladzaa Fortress nets you 20000
potch. Get Cougar Back Home
rewards you with a Wtr Dragn
Claws and Argent Fists. Great
weapons. 1st Empress Consort
Shairah is a small 5000 potch
reward.

Leave and exit the Forest Ruins
- Sisuca randomly shows up and
mentions that you have 10 allies
now! Strange. Go back to the
Forest Ruins, and a man will say
that Jale ran off somewhere! At
the front entrance, Jale will
likely get smacked around by
Selen. Selen is Jale's mom. She
comes around every blooming
flower season if you enter / re-
enter via the north end. You
likely will not have a chance to
fight her early on, it is only
when you come back during a
blooming flower season and Jale
is +20 in the level department.
So we'll come back and try this
later.

Accept the Gateway to Infinity
Mission Request. Send Hotupa
since he's a Wanderer and some
others. The Mission will last 10
days so they will be back after
that.

Grayridge

Head to Grayridge with Erin as
your support. You will see a
mysterious boy and an older guy
at the Mine. It's actually not a
boy after further investigation,
it is a synthetic android with
this aged inventor. The inventor
wants you to leave and give him
space to work on this elevator
lift. Okay. Just go east to see
Anya. Remember her from before
on the streets? She is taking a
break in the Mine since the
Order has pressed hard on the
villagers to follow The One True
Way. Just tell Anya to come with
your company, and she gladly
will. Not sure if you need an
extra space in your party since
she doesn't fight, but I had an
extra spot anyway. Forget about
the elevator inventor for now,
we'll get him later when HQ
grows.

Try to go to the Ch Hall in
Grayridge. You will be stopped
by that Luvais guy. He tells you
not to get close to these Order
soldiers in case they recognize
you. Luvais leaves abrubtly
again, but we'll come across him
later.

Forest Ruins

Back at the Forest Ruins HQ,
check out the Gateway. Talk to
the Wanderer to go to the
Corridor area. You can do your
Nintendo Wi-Fi junk with Wahie
here. For now though, go west a
few screens until you find a
strange wanderer mumbling about
Windows. Every Suikoden fan
knows about Windows. Anyway,
this Wanderer won't say much
besides that.

Fortunately, talking to him
opens up a new request. Talk to
Moana, and she has that optional
mission for you. Bring whoever
you want as this mission is
bound to fail. It takes just 5
days. This wanderer's name is
Tongatihi.

As far as the main storyline is
concerned, might as well tackle
3rd Empress Consort Kureyah's
Mission. She is Shams' mother.

Citro Village

Go to the Elder's House to talk
to Sisuca. She gets ready to
move in at the HQ. Everyone else
in town just talks about Dirk.

Forest Ruins

Back from the ruins, and your
group should be finished with
Window Information and maybe
Gateway to the Infinity.
Tongatihi is disappointed that
he didn't find out more about
Window's, but this isn't the
last we'll hear from him. You
get just 100 potch. 10000 potch
however for the Gateway to the
Infinity, as you are now ready
to accept quests from other
worlds.

As you finish this, that window
guy Tongatihi may have another
quest for you - Windows Beyond
The Gateway. He needs more
information or else his head is
going to hurt. This one lasts 10
days.

El-Qaral

Now it's time to go to the
Magedom for 3rd Empress Consort
Kureyah. At El-Qaral, just head
to the Prince's Palace. You meet
the vivacious Kureyah here. She
would like to head to her
homeland of Salsabil, which
might be a good idea for you to
get to see a new region. Kureyah
then gossips about the other
empresses and about the
Lordship's interest in
Chrodechild. Hero keeps trying
to discredit his forces but
eventually you can head out to
bring her to Salsabil.

Salsabil

Go through the Mislato River.
Take the southwest path, and
this time you are actually let
through. Grab the Silver Spear
as the first thing you see, then
go south to a new area. You
might fight some new enemies
around here like Inpu. These
guys only do 40 damage or so,
but they are a welcome relief in
terms of yielding experience.
Anyway, in the new area, go
straight south until you can go
east or north through a
different route. Go north for a
Bronze Axe, then head southeast
then northeast. After a long
walk, you reach an Iron
GreatSword. West a bit, north,
and east to exit to a new area.

Just go south here, east a bit,
then south more. Eventually you
are stopped. A few guys run in
and label a female in your party
a ruffian. These guys prepare to
fight you. They are a joke
though - their front line
crumbles in a matter of attacks,
and the back guy can't move
round 1 because he has a front
line weapon :) Just pummel the
Ruffian Head in round 2 and
he'll go down. 2 Mega Medicine
and 1 Revival Statue are your
rewards. This ruffian head tells
you about the Salsabil
Liberation Army. They seem to
work for them.

When you regain control, go
southwest for 5000 potch, then
take the eastern path south.
Exit out and you are but 5 days
from Salsabil.

Salsabil

Enter Salsabil. Kureyah wants to
go straight to the Viceroy's
Mansion so go there. You meet
Kureyah's parents; Masrur the
Viceroy of Salsabil and his wife
Furat. They are nice people and
take care of the Inn for you
tonight. You are to head back
the next day for Kureyah.

This place reminds me of Kirov
in Suikoden I. Especially the
music. Check out the Armor Shop.
Buy a few Silver Mail for some
nice armor on your front line
fighters. Especially if you took
the Iron Shield off of Hero to
put a second Magedom Sword on
him (not a bad idea, considering
how easy battle has been so
far). Time to go to the Trade
Harbor. Across the sea to the
east is the United Kingdom of
Ritterschild.

When you are done exploring, go
to the Inn. Talk to the guy a
bit about Salsabil's history,
and of the hoodlums that run the
Salsabil Liberation Army. Looks
like Kureyah is pushing her
father to provide more funds to
the Magelord to improve her
position! We have got to head
all the way back to El Qaral now
to bring the 3rd Empress Consort
Kureyah back to the Prince's
Palace.

El-Qaral

As you get back to the Palace,
Shams is home. Shams and his
mommy go off and talk about what
happened while they were away.
Mission Accomplished.

After this, you meet Captain
Asad's subordinate Nakil. Nakil
joins you as the Order from
Grayridge is planning another
attack on your castle. Save and
quickly make your way back.

Forest Ruins HQ

As you get in, Moana says that
The Order just left Grayridge!
Asad, Chrodechild and everyone
else is at the Grand Hall. Time
to think of a strategy as there
are twice as many troops as last
time with the Fort Arc
reinforcements. The strategy is
to have the mage group and the
blades fight the back while Hero
and friends take the forefront.
This is a way to test the
strength of your team members at
HQ and to not show the enemy
your own reinforcements
initially in the blades and
mages.

Form your party. Jale, Hero and
Logan lead the groups. You
should have 3 members for each
one now, with at least three
support members.

On the enemy side, it is that
same Order Officer you saw at
Fort Arc back a long time ago.
Still talking trash about your
army. The enemy then begins it's
assault! Jale's group is up
first, fighting three Cynas
Conscripts. These battles can
actually be hard if you have
under-leveled or under-equipped
characters. The Conscripts are a
bit stronger, taking off 40-50
on your tougher guys and close
to 100 on your weaker
characters. I had Sisuca and
Zahra in this battle and they
gained 7 levels after victory,
close to level 20 for everyone.
Next battle against the
Conscripts will be with Logan
and his group. You are fighting
two Conscripts and a Cynas
Archer in this pack. This was
actually hard, with Logan and
Marica my front liners only able
to do 50-60 damage each attack,
and Hotupa being worthless at
level 10 in the back row (20
damage attacks but his healing
and defense shield helped).

Finally, it is time for the
Hero's battle against three
Cynas Conscripts. Another
somewhat tough battle for your
group, but after this, the Order
attack is squashed.

At the Forest Ruins Grand Hall,
everyone is glad that the
reinforcements weren't even
needed. Preparations for further
attacks will be discussed later.

Talk to Moana now to report on
some old quests. Escort Me To
Salsabil gives you 10000 potch,
Defend The Castle! gives you
Argent Grt Swrd / Sapphire Rod,
and 3rd Empress Consort Kureyah
gives you 5000 potch. For the
Windows Beyond the Gateway
Mission, it seems like even
other worlds don't know about
Windows. You get 100 potch for
this, and then Hero talks about
that mission in particular. Go
to the Corridor now, and go west
a few screens to Tongatihi. Hero
makes a point to him. Then ask
him to make windows for you.
After some thinking, Tongatihi
is now your ally. You can talk
to him in the area east of the
Grand Hall, and he can change
the color scheme of your
Windows.

There should be two more quests,
1 being the other Empress
Consort Mission that you haven't
completed, and the other should
have just popped up - Find
Somebody. You are to meet some
woman out east at Salsabil about
a manhunt.

Salsabil

Head to the Inn, unless you need
to buy new weapons / armor for
new allies you brought over. In
the room at the Inn, the stern
woman is waiting. You meet
Morrin from the east, and her
bodyguard Yovel. These two are
looking for Icas. Remember him?
He was looking for ladies back
in Cynas. Agree to look for this
guy, though it may be hard.

Forest Ruins

You automatically return to
Forest Ruins. Talk to Moana to
get your reward for that
mission, 1000 potch. We must
fill up new members Mark of the
Stars and it is now time to take
on 2nd Empress Consort. After
taking this on, Moana goes and
gets Mubal since you need him to
go with to the Arcane Academy.
Bring decent allies.

El-Qaral

As you enter and go to the
Arcane Academy, you are stopped
by Taj, Prince Shams' attendant.
Offer to go see what Shams has
to say, since Mubal will need
some time at the Arcane Academy
anyway.

At the Prince's Palace, Shams
tells you of his younger sister,
daughter of Lady Rizwan. Her
name is Manaril. Shams implies
that Third Empress Consort
Kureyah and Lady Rizwan do not
get along. Taj gives you a key
that leads to the cellar of the
Arcane Academy. Take the Academy
Key and go there.

Rizwan greets you. They have
created 'dreambeasts' for you to
fight and show off your Mark of
the Stars. The first summoned
enemy is the Rock Dragon. Use
your best Mark of the Stars
abilities - this thing has a ton
of hit points, and does decent
damage. Having a defensive
shield up wouldn't hurt, or just
stay on top of healing. A Gold
Ore and Revival Statue are your
rewards. Rizwan and Mubal thank
you for your work, and go off to
talk more about researching.

Now use that Academy Key on the
cellar door east of you. It
opens, so go in. Go down 5+
flights of stairs until you
reach a Mage Soldier. Talk to
her a few times, then continue
further to see Manaril, Rizwan
and Mubal. Rizwan treats Manaril
like dirt in the midst of her
power lust regarding these Mark
of the Stars. Hero of course
gets in his I'm going to do
whatever I want mode, but Taj is
here to remind you that it would
be a disaster if you attacked on
behalf of Prince Shams. Run the
hell out of there now and go to
Prince's Palace.

Shams explains that Manaril can
see the content of the
Chronicles, like Hero and his
friends. Manaril can also act as
a reader, which is how the mage
arts are created. Really though,
the point is to show that while
the Order is scum, the Magedom
is shady as well. Talk with
Mubal a bit, and then the
Mission is complete.

Go to the residence and leave,
then a Shady Old Woman comes up
and talks some junk about
Rizwan.

Forest Ruins

As you get back, Moana tells you
of a special request from the
Magelord to aid him in the
assault on Ladzaa Fortress.
First, report on Help Research
Chronicles (10000 potch) and 2nd
Empress Consort Rizwan (5000
potch).

Notice that you have a new
quest, Arcane Academy Tour. Some
Mage Art students would like you
to hook them up at the Arcane
Academy in El-Qaral. They are at
the west part of the Mislato
River. You automatically meet
them after accepting the
Mission. The leader is Geschutz,
with Buchse and Minen at his
side. These three are actually
from the United Kingdom of
Ritterschild. They want to see
the Fierce Regalia chronicle,
but of course Hero doesn't let
these guys see it.

Back at the Forest Ruins, the
storm is here again. It's Selen
again, this time though Jale is
at level 20. Even then, this
battle is damn tough. Selen gets
critical hits at astounding
rates, which take off about half
of Jale's defense. If she does
her body slam tactic, it's over.
You'll either die that turn or
get stunned, lose a turn, and
watch her pummel you some more.
It's possible you could win,
Selen has a good deal of hit
points, but you pretty much have
to save / load and pray she
doesn't use her body slam
technique. You may get lucky and
she will waste turns guarding.

Inside HQ, talk to Moana about
Arcane Academy Tour. You get 100
potch for your troubles.

Just go to the Grand Hall to
advance the storyline. It seems
the Magedom is finally ready to
assault Ladzaa Fortress. You can
tell Liu you need some more
time, but you might as well go
ahead and prepare for the
assault. Save if you have to,
but then choose your party by
talking to Liu. It will be Hero,
Cougar and two characters of
your choosing. Make sure they
are equipped properly.

Mislato River

The scene then shifts to
Mislato, with Shairah getting
the Blades of Night's Veil and
your company ready for the
opening onslaught. Asad doesn't
like that you are being used as
bait. Hafin and Nakil stop him
from complaining to Shairah.

Cougar and Hero talk about how
there is an Order of the True
Way in Cougar's World as well,
and Cougar is fighting against
them. After talking for a bit
the battle horn sounds and you
can walk east. You will fight
some very easy random battles,
but eventually will come across
the Cynas Captain. The archers
in the back attack quick for
about 40-50 damage. The Captain
has a Mark of the Stars type
ability for about 60-100 damage
on a front line fighter. A
Revival Statue and two Mega
Medicine are your rewards.

Further east and north for
another Cynas battle. It's tough
and there is a mage involved,
but afterwards the party senses
something amiss. The mages
haven't made their attack, while
Roberto comes running in
wondering where your party was.
Agree to aid them, and go all
the way west.

Ladzaa Fortress

Just as you get there, you see
the Magedom of Janam get
slaughtered by those beasts you
saw earlier at Cynas. Oh that's
right, I forgot Cynas employed
them. Vaslof in particular was
the one to let you leave back at
Cynas. You have a friendly talk
with them, but soon battle
looms. This is the hardest
battle yet, with these two doing
90-120 damage on your front line
fighters. Again, you can't
damage them. Just staying alive
against these two is a chore.
Vaslof lets you go, so Hero and
Cougar run back discouraged at
the failed attack of Ladzaa.
These Auster Folk are just too
difficult to get through,
regardless of who is sent at
them.

Forest Ruins

The party talks more about the
failed attempt, and how to get
past these Austers. Mission
Accomplished. Return to Moana to
talk about the Ladzaa Fortress
Siege some more, and gain 30000
potch for your effort.

Go towards the Gateway. That
Wanderer Man tells you that
Atrie is back. Atrie talks about
the other owner of this place.
It seems there is an Order of
the True Way in every world!
Scary thought. Atrie then leaves
saying he'll come back when he
gets more information.

Liu then comes to you and tells
you of this great idea. Everyone
goes over it at the Grand Hall.
Basically, attack from water,
but you cannot do this through
ships. So? Get the aid of the
Porpos-Kin. The new mission is
accepted, and Cougar goes with
Liu and Hero so that there is a
non-human along. Put a fourth
member in and a support, and
it's time to go off. We have a
long way to go - through Giney
Valley, to Tehah Village, then
through the Ch'olui Mountains.
It would be easier to go through
the Kingdom of Astrasia, but
that is not an option.

--------------------------------

Flesaria Forest Nth

Time for the long trek to the
land of Porpos-kin. Start off by
entering Flesaria Forest North,
and instead of taking the route
towards Grayridge, you want to
go west towards Giney Valley.
Just as you get outside though
you are stopped by Meruvis. He
comes with a friend, Gadburg,
who is a blacksmith from
Astrasia responsible for forging
the Blades' weapons. Chrodechild
wants him stationed at your
Forest Ruins HQ for your support
and also so that he can
privately do work for the Blades
without the Mage Lord watching
(so that Mage Lord doesn't steal
his services for himself).

Anyway, at Flesaria Forest
North, just go west to the
second screen. Then west some
more and north for a sign.
Northwest towards Giney Valley
and you will be on the world
map.

Giney Valley

Travel west until you get to a
west / east split. Take the east
route as it wraps north and west
for a Peach Juice. There are big
Sledge Mantis' around here, with
1500+ hp but only take off 50 to
one ally or 25 to all. Not too
tough. There are two paths to a
new screen west - the lower one
should be taken first for Mixed
Herbs, then take the upper one
going west to advance. This
northwestern path leads to
another northwest /southwest
fork. Take the southwest route
until you reach a new area.

From the entrance of this new
area, go straight west for a
Healing Incense. Go all the way
northeast now to a new screen
(underneath those big rock
mushrooms). This nets you a
Truffle Stew. Go back to the
last area and go all the way
northwest out of Giney Valley.

Tehah Village

Tehah is just up ahead. Very icy
village. Something seems to be
going on just as you enter
(common Tierkreis theme), but
first go to the residence. Talk
to the strange old man in the
west part of the house - this
Sotah is like a Tierkreis
encyclopedia for you. If you
keep talking to him and reading
about stuff, eventually you can
ask him to come with. He won't
yet but later on when your HQ is
bigger, check back.

Look at the vendor in town.
Nothing too special in terms of
Weapons / Armor / Accessories
but it's probably worth checking
out incase there is something
that is a fit for your party.
Rest, save, and go to the Plaza.
Guess who is here? That
wonderful guy Macoute has been
stationed here to recruit for
The Order of the One True Way.
These mountain folk don't buy
his garbage though. Some little
kid comes in and denounces
Macoute at the end, then Hero
comes forth and taunts Macoute
too. Macoute can't handle the
humiliation and leaves.

Just as your business at Tehah
has finished, Luvais shows up.
You've seen this guy all over.
He assures you that the Order
will not be sending military
force this far, and then he runs
off. You'll see him again, but
it's time to go to the Ch'olui
Mountains.

Ch'olui Mountains

A neat snowy mountain. Take the
north route looking for west
paths (second one leads to a Fur
Cape). Northeast from this point
until the path begins to wrap
northwest. The party makes a
stop in the new area, where that
kid is. He tells you that the
snowslides are a deathtrap for
you, but maybe old Dogha could
help you. This kid is Nhazu by
the way, Dogha's Apprentice. The
top of the mountain is to the
west, but go northeast when you
gain control to Dogha's hut.
Northeast in this new area, but
look for a southern path when
you can for a Ch'olui Cabbage.
Northwest has a Janam Potato.
Time to check out that
northeastern hut.

Dogha is inside, as Nhazu calls
him out. Dogha does not seem
confident in you, but assure him
you will do as he says. Now with
Dogha at your side, go back
southwest to that sign. Then go
west from there like it says and
look for a route to the next
screen. North and east for a
Wool Hat, then head a long ways
west to the next screen.

This is the snowslide area. You
are advised by Dogha to go north
despite Liu's reservations.
Follow Dogha and you will dodge
a snowslide. Follow that route
he suggested west and to a new
screen. South when you can, then
go east back to that previous
area through this new path. Grab
the Wool Robe, then go back west
and southwest in the next area.
Nhazu and Dogha leave you, with
their work done. Actually
though, go back north and
northwest for a pair of Fur
Shoes. Now go southwest to exit
out to the world map.

Naineneis

This is the place you are
looking for. Home of the Porpos-
kin, it is 6 days away. But when
you get there it is truly
amazing. Attempt to enter this
huge Conch Shell of a town. As
you do so, you meet a few human
wanderers. They tell you that
these Porpos-kin are stingy
towards humans. Fortunately you
have Cougar.

Cougar introduces himself as a
member of the Furious Roar
Tribe. They are actually willing
to hear your party out now.
Cougar shows you to Nimni, the
lead warrior of the Porpos-kin
(who you fought earlier). Nimni
apologizes for the previous
fight and wants to show you to
priestess Neira. Evidently this
priestess is waiting for you at
thet Temple of the Sea God
Ninulneda; the guardian diety of
all Porpos-kin. So, choose to go
to this temple.

Neira is an interesting looking
Porpos. She all of a sudden
turns against you and says that
the Order of the One True Way
stole the Beads of the Maiden
from them. Clearly, that is
where the hatred stems. The
spirit of the Sea God Ninulneda
then leaves Neira after this
talk. Hero is willing to
retrieve it though.

Nimni joins you, as Nimni knows
the Coastal Cave area well. He
replaces the one optional
character you brought along
(which was Jale hopefully so you
can level him up around 25 or so
and beat Selen, if you still
haven't). Before venturing
onward, you may check out the
weapon shop and get a Trident
for Nimni. A Shell Backplate is
nice too. And the Silver Boots
are arguably the best accessory
you can buy to this point.

Coastal Cave Near Naineneis

This cave is rather massive at
first glance. Don't be
overwhelmed though, just follow.
As you enter and go north, the
first set of Bds of Priestss are
recovered. There are several
sets of them evidently.

North more and look for an
eastern route. A northeast /
southeast split after this, but
the latter is a dead end. So go
northeast for a Seashell Shield.
Next, go back to the beginning
area where you initially took an
east path, and this time go
north a tad more and west. Then
southwest, all the way for a
Trident.

To the north, we have an
interesting phenomenon - hot
springs, five different ones.
Took the second one from the
right first. Northeast up here
for a Shell Backplate. Second
spring from the left is a dead
end, and the eastmost hot spring
is a dead end for us too. The
first spring from the left
though leads to 30000 potch (on
the left as you are going
north). Then take the middle
spring of the five.

Go a long ways north, then east
when you can for Adept's Shoes.
Back west to the path, and all
the way north for Mystic
Medicine. West from here and
eventually north to a new area.
East across this misty room, and
rest up before entering the next
area. It's a huge crab and it
has prevented the Porpos-kin
from gathering their treasures.
Liu surmises that this is
probably a renegade, which makes
sense considering the Porpos-kin
cannot defeat it. Not that tough
of a battle though. Use
Masterpiece by the Hero and Two-
Way Spear with Cougar. This will
take off massive damage though
Cougar can only do this once.
Stay healed as this boss has
2000-2500 HP so it may take a
bit. The crab has a fire
breathing attack for 50-70
damage on everyone, so heal from
that. A Rainbow Thread and Giant
Crab Meat are your rewards for
this monstrosity.

Afterwards, the last beads seem
to be the equivalent to a book
for humans! It provides a new
vision for everyone, including
Nimni. Just as you are leaving,
Conon seems to have been onto
you. It is just Conon the
Archivist here, And you can
actually win this battle. Your
magic points may be limited from
the last battle, unless you
gained some levels and in turn
restored your status. Either
way, you should have plenty of
Masterpiece's left for the Hero
to use. Use Two-Way Spear by
Cougar if you have it, and Liu
can cast attack magic or set up
barriers. Though with Hero's
Masterpiece, Conon's 2000 HP or
so will evaporate real quick.
Little EXP for you, but you
obtain Ninja Garb and a Revival
Statue.

Has Conon lost his powers, or
are you just getting stronger?
At any rate, it's time to return
to Naineneis. Go to the Temple
of the Sea God Ninulneda, as the
sea God once again takes control
of the Priestess and orders the
Porpos-kin to fight alongside
you against the Order of the One
True Way. The support of the
Porpos-kin is now yours.

As you leave the area, Liu asks
the priestess her opinion about
the beads and books. Go to the
entryway to speak with Numnu, a
little pink Porpos-kin. She runs
off and won't join yet.

Tehah Village

On your way back to the Forest
Ruins, stop by the Village of
Tehah. Check out the Weapon Shop
/ Inn and talk to everyone - one
of the villagers (innkeeper)
offers soup (assuming you are in
the 'sprout' season. Hero loves
the soup, then a huge man comes
in. It is his concoction. He
doesn't tell his name or join,
but this event sets up a Mission
Request later that will allow
you to recruit him. Note that if
you try to taste soup later on,
do so during the 'blooming
flower' season instead of
'sprout'.

Forest Ruins

The Porpos-kin beat you back
here. Nimni brought Nemne and
Nomno. Nomno just sleeps. A
messenger has come about the
Magedom. Just exit out and re-
enter the Forest Ruins. Luvais
comes and greets you again! He
says the Grayridge Chapter is
planning to attack you once
again. He also tells you the
Order may send in spies to act
like they are allies but are
actually members of the Order.
The party decides to just attack
them head on without Magedom
help.

Now a scene in Flesaria Forest.
Your wanderer look-out member
fortunately does not fall for
this ruse. However they have
advanced quite far already, and
Hero taunts the lead 'refugee'.
You then begin a battle against
three Cynas Men. These three
like to guard, and their attacks
only take off 40 or so anyway.
Meanwhile, 600 damage or so
should do them in. Repel this
weak effort by The Order, and
you will be back in the Strategy
Room with Luvais. Luvais joins
you after this, he has provided
so much help and is eager to
join. He likes your prospects
more than the Magedom.

In the main hall, Nakil tells
you about the Auster who
disappeared from Ladzaa Fortress
that led the mages to try to
attack again, but fail. Nakil
then says it is time for another
attack, but Hero and Liu are mad
that they have to clean up the
Magedom's problem. Anyway, tell
him to wait for a bit so you can
report on your Missions. For
Make Allies of the Porpos, you
obtain 10000 potch.

Lots of new requests actually.
Sign up for Demon Hunting in
Gineh. The Peddling Wanderer
wishes for you to get rid of
this demon with a horn at Giney
Valley. Before you go over there
to do that, equip your new Mark
of the Stars abilities that you
gained. And outfit your new
character's with Mark of the
Stars (Luvais and the Porpos-kin
in particular).

Giney Valley

Bring a decent party here. If
you explored Giney Valley well,
you may have already came across
this dead end where the Demon
is. It is the waterfall is the
west-most section of Giney
Valley. The exit to the World
Map is in the northwest, but if
you work your way all the way
south, you can go to the
southwest for a waterfall area.
It is empty, but when you get
out and move on two wanderer's
run out saying there is a beast.
It doesn't seem to be attacking
anyone though, so head back over
to the waterfall.

This Auster man is actually
nice, and just glad to meet
someone understanding like Hero.
After you find Muro, just talk a
bit about his journey and then
you can recruit Muro. Just ask
him to join and he'll do all the
heavy lifting. Report on Demon
Hunting in Gineh for 10000
potch.

Next, sign up for Order
Approaches Naineneis. We must
repel the Order for our newest
allies. Nimni and Hero join up
and automatically go to
Naineneis.

Naineneis

A porpos greets you and tells
the two of you the situation.
Then you go off to the Coastal
Cave.

Coastal Cave

Some Order Soldiers are here but
so are Dromon and his fellow
pirates from the Lonomakua
waters. He has Felecca and Xebec
at his side. The three of them
get in a battle with these Cynas
Conscripts and use a unite that
wipes one of them out. Looks
like they won't be needing your
help, but it's nice to meet
them. Nimni tells you that they
are from the northwest chain of
islands called the Lonomakua
Islands governed by the
Lonomakua Chiefdom. These three
go off for a Hot Spring bath.
But actually they stop back so
that Felecca can pet the Porpos.
We'll see more of them later.

Naineneis

Back here, go to the trade post
to see that pair you saw when
you first visited. The kid is
Tuhululu and the mom is
Rekareka. She thinks she'll run
across you again, which is true.

Go to the Inn / Shop. It's that
gambler Semias. Looks like you
lose the bet, but he doesn't
force you to pay. Semias then
says he's off, looking to make
the biggest bet ever. Nothing
else to do here, so return to
the Forest Ruins HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the area of HQ where
Logan, Sisuca and Erin reside.
You should see that gambler.
Semias has not been recruited.

Report on your last quest, Order
Approaches Naineneis. We still
get 30000 potch for this,
despite doing nothing. Next,
sign up for Find the Chef. You
have to go to El-Qaral to make
this Mission happen, but stop by
Mislato River along the way.

Take the path like you are going
to Salsabil, and you will get
ambushed again by those
ruffians. The weaker ones take
off 25-30 with their attacks,
though they are quick. The
Ruffian Head has a more powerful
Mark of the Stars attack for 70+
damage. Nothing you shouldn't be
able to handle in a few turns
though. These guys fall back
once again, though Hero tries to
explain to him the true nature
of your alliance with the
Magedom.

El-Qaral

Go to the Imperial Palace to
talk to Asad. He says your
request is to find the cook
Wustum, who you ran into at
Tehah Village. He tells you the
back story of how Wustum got mad
at the Mage Lord and Shairah,
and then left. Hero decides he
might ignore this quest. But
head to Tehah Village to at
least see what Wustum is up to.

Tehah Village

Talk to the Innkeeper. Turns out
the chef Wustum left as the
Magedom soldiers were after him.
Maybe they headed up into the
mountains?

Ch'olui Mountains

Time to traverse these mountains
once more. As you get north to
the second screen, go west
towards the top of the mountain.
Quickly you will see three
Magedom Soldiers and Wustum. The
soldiers are going to tie him
up. Actually though, this level
10 guy can hold his own and wins
the fight with regular attacks.
Tell him to just come to your
place and ignore the magedom.
You might get in trouble with
the Magedom for having him
there, but who cares really.
They are starting to look more
shady by the minute.

Back to the Forest Ruins HQ to
report that Find The Chief quest
and gain 100 potch. Besides the
Icas quest that you cannot do
yet (not enough young females),
you should see the Sorry to Keep
Bugging You! Mission from the
other-world Marica?. Marica? is
now a companion.

Grayridge Mine

The scene then fades to
Grayridge. Marica? suddenly just
asks Hero to fight it by
himself! After one Hero attack,
the battle ends. Marica? was
trying to see if Hero really was
from another world - if so, he
should have been able to defeat
that Renegade. This is an easy
request to fulfill, and when you
return, you get a haul. Report
on Sorry to Keep Bugging You!
for 50000 potch.

Forest Ruins HQ

About this time, it was
'blooming flower' season. From
my experience, Selen seems to
show up every other blooming
flower season, but I only fought
her twice (meaning I fought her
on the first blooming flower
season, lost, then tried to
fight her the next one but she
didn't show up. The third
blooming flower season though
she showed up right away (coming
from the front entrance of
course)).

Selen beat me before with Jale
at level 18 or so, but Jale is
now level 25 and has the Argent
Fists. This battle should be
more feasible now assuming you
don't get unlucky with Selen's
'Mark of the Stars' attack.
Looks like Kasumi's Shrike Rune
from Suikoden I. There is
potential knockdown for both you
and Selen so it can really swing
the fight. You will need to use
some Mega Medicines, and Two-Way
Strike when your HP is full.
Selen only has 1000 HP but if
you fought this earlier, you
know it is a tough fight. Jale
should level up to about 28
after this fight, making him
even more of a monster in
battle. And you will recruit
Selen afterwards. Selen as an
Ally can be used in battle with
the Shrike Strike Mark of the
Stars attack.

This should be it as far as side
quests for now. Return to the
Strategy Room and talk to Nakil.
Agree to help them get started
at Ladzaa Fortress one more
time.A new mission is accepted,
as Hero and Cougar join with two
members of your choosing to
storm Ladzaa. You also have the
Porpos-kin in one group, with
Nimni, Nemne and Nomno. I put
Muro in there to be a beast in
the front-center. Hero (Argent
Grt Swrd, Warrior Armor, Adept's
Shoes) and Cougar are so
overpowered, so I just put some
under-leveled characters with
them in Marica and Logan. Choose
your party and then it's time to
go off.

El-Qaral

El Qaral is your first stop.
Unless you need to save or go to
the Weapon Shop, just go
straight to the Imperial Palace
to meet up with Danash VIII.
Danash praises your party but
talks down to Chrodechild and
the blades. It seems Danash is
pitting the Blades between your
company. Just go straight to the
Blades area after this. Some of
the blades and Roberto are
falling for the Mage Lord's
trap. Hero explains everything
and Chrodechild is happy. After
this, go to the Imperial Palace
and talk to Asad. Tell him you
are ready for Ladzaa Fortress.

Ladzaa Fortress

The key to Liu's plan is Nimni
and the Porpos-kin. Hero and
friends are to lure out the
Austers, and then Nimni and his
friends will rush through the
river and open the gates. As you
run north, Roberto comes up to
tell you that the way to the
bridge is secure.

You're ran this route plenty of
times. Go north, then east all
the way, then north. The path
then wraps northwest. The bridge
is open this time as you run
across the first area of it. The
second area though, you see
those Austers. But Vaslof is not
with them this time. You can
take these three. They have
about 600-700 HP, with decent
defense and they take off 50.
Heal if you need to Three Mega
Medicines for the win.

Hero talks some trash, and sure
enough Vaslof and Resno come
back out. You still cannot do
much damage to these two, and
they still take off anywhere
from 80-120 damage on you. Stay
healed, the battle ends in 3
turns like all of these types of
battles. Hero can't get through
these great beasts, but this is
when the Porpos-kin make their
strike.

Nimni and friends sneak up on
the Order Soldiers inside. The
porpos-kin have to defeat a
Cynas Captain, Cynas Conscript
and Cynas Archer. Nothing too
hard, though your party isn't
exactly stacked. Lots of raining
spears on everyone with Nimni
and Nemne, and stay healed. All
will go up to level 22-23 if
they are not there already.

Hero rushes in after this, with
the gate open. More magedom
soldiers come along with the
blades, Asad and Roberto. Ladzaa
Fortress is back in the hands of
the magedom, thanks to you.
After the battle, the party
finds there are no hostages! The
hostages must have been taken up
north. Next order of business is
getting Cougar home with
Hotupa's help. Just head
straight left to an open room
and Hotupa find's the Gateway.

The party reaches the corridor
through this new gateway. Hero
tries to go to Cougar's world,
but he cannot. Cougar would have
liked him to see Chief Diulf.
Cougar leaves this time, and it
works. When you get back from
the corridor, Hafin and Liu come
in to congratulate you. There is
a next step according to Asad.
We must secure the northern
Order base where the hostages
are being held. Might as well
tell Asad you are ready for
that.

Hero is to stay on standby at
Ladzaa until Lady Shairah
arrives. Shouting is heard as
Liu and Hero talk, so run left
to see what it's about. Everyone
is celebrating, with the
prisoners released. But it's
likely a trap, just as Jowy did
in Greenhill back in S2. The
magedom soldiers don't listen to
you, so just run back to
Chrodechild and tell her. She
says something like this
happened at Pharamond. Sure
enough as you leave, Liu and
Hero turn back to watch
something very bad happen.

Asad runs in to tell you that
the Blades of Night's Veil have
been detained, and taken back to
the Mage City. Mission
Accomplished, but you have a new
one. Put someone in your party
to go with Liu, Hero and Asad.
Time to head out.

El-Qaral

Make your way back to El-Qaral
through Mislato River. When you
get there, just go to the Inn
and talk to the Innkeeper. You
will be in a room talking to
Asad. He tells you what you
probably figured - the Mage Lord
is using the Blade's of Night's
Veil as the scapegoat for the
losses at Ladzaa Fortress, even
though they have no reason to
think they would be in collusion
with the Order.

Taj comes in as you are about to
leave. It looks like Princess
Chrodechild is being forced into
the inner chamber with Lord
Danash. At this point, Hero and
Liu decide they've had it with
the Magedom. Asad joins your
cause, and after you recruit
Asad, Taj will leave to tell
Prince Shams. Taj asks you to
take Princess Manaril before you
leave. There may not be another
chance to take her if you don't
this time. Agree to split up and
take the two princesses. Asad
will go to get Chrodechild and
the Blades of Night's Veil. Hero
will go get Princess Manaril
from the Arcane Academy. Form
two full parties, and go off to
the Academy.

After the first floor, you will
have some Janam Soldiers to
fight through. They do about
40-60 damage and have around
600. Winning this battle will
get your supporting characters
up to around level 24. Keep
going down the stairs until you
see that strange Mage Soldier at
the bottom. Just run through the
west to see Manaril passed out
on a bed. Hero forces her to
come with. Head back out - I
guess the Mage Soldier doesn't
care you're taking a princess?

As you attempt to exit at the
top, you come across the Rock
Dragon again. I had Liu with so
I spammed Silence Sand for 400
damage. Masterpiece did close to
500 each time. He has close to
3000 HP so this battle will take
you a few turns. You gain a
Revival Statue and should have
your supporting characters at
level 25 now.

Rizwan comes in after this. She
is cruel, caring more about the
Chronicle downstairs (that you
didn't take) than her daughter,
who she says will die soon
anyway. Time to bail, just as
you do Asad sees you. Before you
leave, stop by the Prince's
Palace. Shams sees Manaril.
Shams however cannot go with -
he needs to stay, in hopes of
becoming ruler of the Magedom so
he can act more reasonably than
Mage Lord.

Mislato River

As you leave, Mage Lord comes
here with Lady Shairah. Danash
VIII had anticipated this would
happen. Tell him you don't need
control of the Magedom - you
have your own forces. Shairah
brands you a traitor, and sends
the guards at you.

First you fight a battle with
the Blades of Night's Veil. Use
Medicine if you have to heal,
which you may as these enemies
do 50 damage and attack before
you often. Next is Asad's battle
against the Janam Soldiers.
Finally, a battle with Hero and
friends against three Janam's.
You get 3 Mega Medicines for
each of these battles, so a
total of 9. The Mage Lord
continues to try to sell his
land to Hero. As you leave,
Danash VIII tells his troops not
to pursue. Hafin and Nakil make
some comments about Asad.
Mission Accomplished.

After you exit out Mislato
River, the scene shifts to Cynas
with Diadora. Valfred wonders
about the Chronicle in El-Qaral.

As you exit, a strange light
emits around the Forest Ruins
HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

The castle has become huge! Plus
there is a lake out back.
Strange. Lots of talking with
Roberto, Manaril, Moana and
friends. Hero brings in the
first Chronicle for Asad and the
Blades to touch. Sure enough
they feel it.

Manaril explains that they
didn't see the lake or the
castle grow, because they are
Starbearers. Manaril knows a lot
about the Mark of the Stars.
Before you go off checking the
new HQ, Chrodechild asks you if
you would help them unify
Astrasia later. Chrodechild,
Meruvis, Asad and Roberto are
allies. You may want to sort out
their Mark of the Stars
abilities right away, then go
around exploring.

--------------------------------

This is the fourth part of the
Suikoden Tierkreis Walkthrough,
resuming the guide directly
after the Blades of Night's Veil
join and the HQ upgrades.

Forest Ruins HQ

Check out the new place. Several
more floors to look at, and
people who were initially at one
place have moved around. On the
second floor on the right is
Mubal's area where he works with
the Chronicles. Bring Manaril
there. She wants to help Mubal
(who still wants to stay - the
Chronicles are more important
than the Magedom to him). Mubal
actually touches the Chronicle
and responds to it! It seems
being a Starbearer can happen at
any time even though Mubal had
been touching the Chronicle
before. After this talk, Mubal
and Manaril are recruited. Go to
the nearby Mark of the Stars red
orb and issue out abilities to
your new friends, then continue
exploring.

Wall all the way up to the top.
Hero will make a comment about
that guy at the Grayridge Mine
who works on lifts. Maybe he'd
work on ours now that we have
like 5 floors? Go back down to
the first floor with Moana, and
save. Enter the west room and go
up the stairs and through that
upper-west exit to see Jale and
Marica. They found some neat
clothes, and Hero decides to try
them on. Afterwards, a cut
scene. It seems like Hero has
the clothes from the Hero in the
visions they have. These will be
Hero's new clothes.

Further left from this part, and
soon you'll be outside by the
lake! Anya is out here, and if
you go further west, you'll find
Yadima of all people in the
fields. He seems a little
discouraged about the state of
the field. Go back to the center
area to talk to Moana. She is
startled by your armor, but then
you hear from her that someone
showed up at the Gateway. Head
there.

Atrie is here, surprised to see
that sky-blue armor. You talk
for a bit but it's interrupted
by Hotupa running in. Atrie
leaves for now and you can head
back to the HQ. Specifically the
strategy room. Turns out, half
of the Ch'olui Mountains have
disappeared. Everyone wants to
see if the surrounding villages
like Astrasia and Naineneis.
Also it seems the Tribe of the
Furious Roar have appeared.
Roberto wants to go along with
this mission to meet the Furious
Roar. Fill up your party, and
finally you can go talk to Moana
about quests.

Report on your old ones first.
Ladzaa Portress Siege Again
gives you 30000 potch. Rescue
the Prisoners gives you 20000
potch and Goodbye, Magedom! was
5000 potch but much more value
than that in terms of recruited
characters.

There are a ton of new quests
for you to take on, and you can
now do the Icas quest. Actually
not quite yet, as Chrodechild
cannot be put into the party
right now. So sign up for
Plowin' the Field, which appears
once you talk to Yadima in the
western fields past the lake at
HQ (and you had to have talked
to him at his ranch southeast of
Citro Village earlier in the
game - you can still go there if
you haven't). Anyway, Yadima
needs some strong-types to plow
the field for 1 day. Asad, Muro,
Jale and Selen are good to send
if they aren't in your party
already. Maybe old Gadburg in
support.

Meanwhile, sign up for Make My
Son a Man. You met the mother
Rekareka and her son back at
Naineneis, Porpos-land. If you
talked to them again after
liberating Naineneis, then this
quest should show up right away
after HQ expands. Her son is
Tuhululu. Head to the Inn, where
Anya would stand back when the
HQ was smaller. You will find
Rekareka and Tuhululu here. Just
go talk to Rekareka about the
details - she wants someone
strong to accompany her son to a
new world to buy some things.
She'll send another request when
the time is right to do that.
So, go report on Make My Son a
Man. You only get 100 potch, but
then I Need Laggart Pelts shows
up. This is from Rekareka. You
need to form another 5 person
party. They'll be gone for 5
days.

Make a short trip to the
Grayridge Mine. If Hero went to
the top floor of the new HQ, he
should have said something about
a lift. Sure enough, go to the
mine and tell the Inventor that
it will be interesting. The
inventor and his android Yod go
with. The inventor is named
Balsam. Balsam says that your
castle looks promising with an
area already designed for an
elevator, but that with his
special 'units' it will take 5
years or so to complete. Well,
you can bypass this by ripping
out Yod's unit, but that's too
not nice. However there is a
'pump'. You remember seeing it
in the treasure chest at
Naineneis. However you cannot
get there yet.

Put Mubal in your party, for a
reason to be discussed shortly.
Next, sign up for Salsabil
Liberation Army. Hero
automatically appears in south
Mislato River to talk to the
Liberation Army. The ruffians
talk to you a bit about their
motives and you learn the leader
is named Misrach. Misrach seems
to understand you - he says they
need some time for self-
reflection.

Salsabil

Since you're in the area, just
go to Salsabil. Enter the
residence to see that shady old
woman Nuzhat. She would be glad
to join but she needs a place to
be. To make this happen, you
need to get the lift / elevator
working.

Forest Ruins HQ

As you return to HQ, Marica
tells you the basement is
haunted! Hero goes down there
himself and some strange lady
appears. She's not too happy to
see a kid running the show, but
it will have to do. The Tablet
of the Promise aka the 108 Stars
of Destiny Tablet. Ingraved are
the names of the Starbearers.
This is Zenoa, as Hero
recognizes this name he hasn't
seen before. Zenoa is recruited.

Go back up to talk to Moana to
get results on your jobs.
Salsabil Liberation Army nets
you a measly Mislato Salmon as a
reward. I Need Laggart Pelts
turns out to be a success at
30000 potch, Rainbow Thread,
Rainbow Cloth and Silk Cloth.
Tuhululu does a good job.
Rekareka commends Tuhululu for
his good work. After this,
Rekareka and Tuhululu are
recruited to your company.Then
report on Yadima's quest,
Plowin' The Field. If you
brought a strong group you'll
succeed and gain 5000 potch,
Citro Tomato, and a Janam
Potato. Now to officially
recruit Yadima, go talk to him
at his field.

Sign up for Taking Care of the
Tablet. There is only one person
you need to send on this mission
- Sisuca, Hero's 'mom'.

Now agree to the Special
Proposal from Geschutz, those
strange guys from before. They
are at the entrance to Mislato
River once again. Turns out
Geschutz has received an order
from his country to aid your
company. They belong to a
special part of the
Ritterchild's Army, the Belfar
Agency. Janam evidently took
that chronicle away from their
country during a bitter war.
Geschutz, Buchse and Minen are
then recruited to your army.

Return and report on some
quests. Special Proposal nets
you a Rifle, while Taking Care
of the Tablet with Sisuca
rewards you with a Broom and
10000 potch. You really want to
do the Taking Care of the Tablet
request because the Broom is one
of the elite Rod-type weapons in
the entire game.

Just a few requests left to
finish up. Sign up for Sisuca
and Nemne, a quest led by Anya.
Not sure who to bring with this
quest really.

Also sign up for Get Rid of
Citro Monster. There is an
unidentified black monster in
the Citro Plains. It could be a
Renegade, right? Well, Marica?
shows up. This other Marica
joins you as you end up in the
Ruins area near Citro Plain.
This thing is downright
powerful, and fast to boot.
80-120 damage with physical
attacks and lots of HP. After
about 2000 damage, the battle
ends and instead Marica? is
alone in battle against it to
finish it off. She cannot do it
though.

After the battle, some strange
character runs up and chases the
monster off. Turns out this
monster is a Formless Demon. The
strange man and Marica? run off,
so hopefully the man takes out
that demon.

Back to Forest Ruins HQ to
report on Sisuca and Nemne?
Turns out that Sisuca was just
teaching her how to sing. You
gain 1000 potch for this. But
Get Rid of Citro Monster nets
you 30000 potch.

Not much else you can do, so
fill up your party to go to
Tehah Village to continue the
main storyline.

Tehah Village

Go to the residence as you
enter. Ask Sotah for knowledge,
and when you're done ask him to
join. Before HQ expanded he
would reject, but now he says
very well. Sotah is recruited.
Check out the rest of town. It's
definitely strange here, people
are hateful towards Dogha and
are bothered by the weather.
Speak with Nhazu at the plaza.
He has a sense something is
going on but is not sure. Leave
the village now.

Marsinah Plains

This is a new area, and the
second world-map-style plains.
Go straight west. A bull-like
enemy appears here, the Pekklar.
Use your best skills to take out
the 2000 or so HP, especially
since there is a good chance
you'll gain a level and restore
your HP / MP afterwards.

After this tough Pekklar fight,
two more of them appear! But two
beast-men come to take them out.
Actually three of them use a
unite attack. Afterwards,
Roberto and Hero know they are
in the presence of the Furious
Roar Tribe. This is Diulf, the
leader Cougar was telling you
about. Servillah is the female.
For some reason Diulf does not
know Cougar, only Servillah and
Lycia. The three of them leave
to their stronghold of Cragbark.

West more to reach Cragbark.

Cragbark

You meet a bunch of the
tribesman, including old Tigre.
Talk to everyone when you get a
chance, there is a strange
Furious Roar member named Autar
here. There are some really nice
accessories for you to spend
your money on, and Tai Chi Garb
is good too. Gold Spear would be
nice if it wasn't 140,000 potch.

Go to the Inn. Guess who it is?
Our favorite human Macoute.
Diulf wastes no time berating
him. To the Hse of the King
next. Inform him of Macoute and
the Order's evil ways, and the
tribe will agree; they need to
prepare for a potential attack.
Diulf takes pride in not needing
help so they reject your
alliance. However there is
lodging at the Inn for you, so
go there for the night.

Cynas

In Cynas, Valfred and Diadora
talk about the 9th world. Turns
out Sophia is going to get a
Chronicle.

Tribe of the Furious Roar

Meanwhile, during the evening,
Roberto wakes up Hero. Nova and
that strange girl from before
with Dirk are here. Evidently
they knew of the Royal Pavilion
where the False Chronicle was.

Time for a battle with Nova and
the girl. The female likes to
use Defense Shield and Nova will
guard often. I had Zenoa with,
so Defense Canopy is a nice way
to start the battle. Use
Masterpiece with Hero and Two-
Way Strike with Roberto. Even
with defense up, Nova does
80-100 damage. The mysterious
female will use that sand spell
that Liu uses for decent damage
(unless it's on a magician like
Zenoa then it's only 50-60).
It's a tough battle with Nova
having nearly 2500-3000 HP. Once
he is done, the battle ends.

Afterwards, Dirk comes forth.
Dirk tells Sophia to flee. Dirk
somehow gets the Furious Roar
Tribe to think that you are in
alliance with him, since Hero
can't speak against Dirk. This
is not good, as Diulf orders you
out of the village.

Just as you do, Chrodechild
comes in. Astrasia is still in
command of The Order troops,
however they are sending an army
to subdue the Furious Roar
Tribe. Despite being told not to
help, it would probably be in
your best interest to aid them
so that the Order doesn't take
control of their land (and
Chronicle).

Naineneis

Before going back to Forest
Ruins HQ, head here. Since you
can finally go here, enter the
Trading area and search the
treasure. Hero asks for the pump
once more. The trader doesn't
hassle you since he knows you
know the inventor.

Forest Ruins HQ

As you get back, Moana greets
you. Everyone is to gather at
the Grand Hall, but let's do
some things first. Report on
Journey to the West for 20000
potch.

Now that you have access to
Naineneis, a request has came
from there under Porpos
Abducted. It seems to be those
Lonomakua Pirates! You met them
if you did the earlier quest
regarding the Order attacking
Naineneis.

Naineneis

As you get there, the porpos-kin
deny anything happening. But
when you stop talking to them,
they talk to themselves,
worrying about the situation.

Coastal Cave

The party appears at the Coastal
Cave. Dromon was actually
protecting this porpos from the
humans who sell the porpos-kin.
They then suspect you of the
wrongdoing. Time for battle
against Dromon, Felecca and
Xebec. This battle is quite
hard, they have Mark of the
Stars abilities and they pack
quite a punch. Not to mention
the knife-throwing can hit your
back row. Defense Canopy is
essential for reducing the
attack damage, especially the
powerful Dromon. Even with your
defense raised, he takes off
close to 100. I ganged up on
Felecca with Masterpiece and
other high-powered attacks. She
has close to 1500 HP. Xebec has
about this much too. Like most
enemies, Dromon is not too hard
by himself. This is a tough
battle though - your surviving
members will raise their levels
all the way to 32-33!

Nimni and friends run in to
explain the situation. Turns out
Numnu is playing tricks on the
Pirates.

Forest Ruins HQ

The scene shifts back to the HQ.
Priestess Neira is here. The sea
God gives Numnu a tongue
lashing, and orders Numnu to
join your company. Numnu is
recruited.

Search around HQ dining hall
(floor 1 - go west) to see the
sleeping Nomno. Hero tries to
wake him, but no good. Return to
where the Porpos-kin are (two
floors up - Asad's floor). As
you get in the Porpos-kin room,
Namna is here asking about
Priestess Neira (assuming it is
'bud' season). Namna leaves but
you will see her again. Then
talk to Nemne. She says that
Nomno worked so hard at Ladzaa
Fortress that he doesn't have
any more energy. Hmm, what to
do. Go back to where Nomno is
near, on floor 1. Talk to
Wustum, and a flash of light.
Looks like Nomno just needed
food. Nomno officially is
recruited.

Go a floor above this to talk to
the Elevator guy. Give Balsam
and Yod the pump, and the
elevator can be finished. And
Yod is spared. 10 years for the
elevator to be created now. Err,
10 days Balsam means.

Report on Porpos Abducted for a
Trident (not very powerful at
this point). Sign up for
'Chancellor's Age'. Anya is the
support for this quest. Not sure
who to bring for this either,
probably just high-level
characters. It likely does not
matter.

Also sign up for Find Icas. This
is finally do-able, since you
can use Chrodechild now. Put
Chrodechild, Marica, Sisuca,
Manaril and Erin in the group
(Minen might work too).

Citro Village

This is not a mission or
anything, but put Minen, Buchse
and Geschutz in your party. Then
go to the town square and talk
to Khemia. Turns out Khemia has
created quite the gun, though it
is not perfect it has great
potential. This goofy guy Khemia
is now recruited to work on
guns.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back at HQ, check out the weapon
shop / blacksmith. There are now
upgraded weapons for these
gunners, much stronger weapons
than before. Burst Rifle and
Altered Pistols cost a bit, but
it's worth it for them.

Report on Find Icas. You get 500
potch, but another quest
relating to Icas pops up. You
have to bring him to Morrin
(though the quest says Moana).
Then report on Chancellor's Age
to find out that for 1000 potch.

Go up to floor three. The lift
is now complete says Balsam!
Balsam tells you that while
spending time here, he touched
the Chronicle and saw the
vision. It seems Yod is even a
starbearer. Balsam and Yod are
now recruited.

Travel to the cellar via the
elevator. A strange, empty room.
Remember at Salsabil Kingdom,
that old lady who wants to join
but didn't have a room? Now that
you have the elevator working,
get ready to travel to Salsabil.
Before you go, send some strong
members out on Yadima's next
request (Plantin' the Field part
2). Also might want to sign up
for Mass Production of Guns?!,
from Khemia. He wants to know
about the mass gun production
theory over by the Ritterschild
islands. Might as well send
Geschutz, Buchse and Minen along
for this. Last, sign up for
Bring Icas to Me. The Hero has
to do this personally. Tell Icas
he can join, and Icas will be
recruited. After you recruit
Icas, you still have to take him
to Salsabil.

As you go to leave, Morrin is
already at your HQ! Yovel is
with her. To make matters
crazier, some random guy appears
saying he'll kill Icas. Time to
fight this assassin. This guy
only has 1000 HP or so. The
assassin flees, and Hero
impressed the young ones here.
Yovel and Morrin are now
recruited. Might as well report
on Bring Icas to Me, for 1000
potch.

Now, to Salsabil with Mubal. You
finally have a room for Nuzhat,
who is still at the Residence
(assuming you have the elevator
/ lift working). Nuzhat gladly
joins, and the party then
appears at the cellar. Nuzhat
creates that same room she had
at the Arcane Academy, where
Dreambeasts are summoned. Why
not test it out? A battle looms
against a Blaze Dragon. Lots of
HP, but not a lot of attack
power (blaze-all takes off only
20-25 on everyone, regular
attack about 50-60). Not too
hard but not too rewarding
either (minimum EXP for anyone
over 23). However you can talk
to her and train against
different Dreambeasts any time
you would like.

Since you are back at HQ, report
on your quests. Mass Production
of Guns?! nets you Prototype
Guns, Prototype Rifle and 50000
potch. Quite a haul I'd say.
Report on Plantin' the Field 2
for a Sugar Cane. This quest
doesn't disappear, as it seems
to be a way to earn money /
items.

A new quest appears - Something
For You, from Atrie. This
appears once you get Nuzhat
recreated with her dreambeasts.
Atrie just gives you the God-
Beast Sword, and you guys go to
the cellar to try it out. Talk
to Nuzhat and the Dreambeast
battle begins against a Razor
Dragon. This beast has a
powerful wave attack for 70-90
damage on everyone, and a tail
swipe for 100 damage to the
front line. Having Defense
Canopy would be smart -
fortunately we have Atrie for
that and his powerful Healing
Wave tactic (200 hp restoration
for each member). This battle
will take a long while, as the
beast has close to 3000 HP it
seems. Lizard Skin is your
reward. Atrie then leaves, so go
report on Something For You -
You also get a Crescent Axe for
your trouble.

Put together a formidable party,
and go off to the Coastal Cave.

Coastal Cave

You have to go to the back of
this cave. If you don't
remember, head straight north to
the 5 hot springs, and take the
middle one. Things actually seem
to be configured different this
time, because you are sent to a
third floor. So explore this
third floor. If you go left and
north as you get out, this
passage leads to a Godspeed
Talisman. Back to the main path
and go north, skipping the east
path which is a dead end. North
more through a big room,
skipping the next west path you
see which is another dead end.
straight north once you get out,
you'll reach a dead end that
leads east to a Lazuli Spear, a
very powerful weapon. Return to
the far south.

When you drop down a hole, you
are on the second floor. This is
where you go straight north
until you reach a dead end /
empty treasure. Take the west
route just south of here until
you get to the steamy area.
Those pirates are still hanging
out here. Talk to them, and they
wonder why they haven't built a
hideout in all this time. Hero
thinks that maybe they just up
and forgot about it. The Porpos-
kin will go search Lonomakua to
see if anything changed.

After a search, Nimni says a
chunk of the Lonomakua chain
islands disappeared. The party
then appears back at the Coastal
Cave thankfully. All three
pirates then touch the
Chronicle, and they have the
vision. The hideout was on
Kealohilani Island and the
pirates finally remember. Dromon
is set to go, but he wants to
fight your party first. These
three haven't changed from the
earlier fight. Use Defense
Canopy or Defense Barrier to
prevent those physical attacks
from mowing you down. Work on
Xebec first, as with Masterpiece
and a little more damage, he can
be down in turn 1. Felecca has
about 1500 HP instead of Xebec's
1000, but she'll go down quick
too. It's Dromon with his high
attack and 2000 HP that is the
worry, but he should be left for
last so they cannot gang up on
you in the early turns. Again,
your allies will level up to
31-33 or so.

Dromon, Xebec and Felecca get
ready to board the ship and join
your company. Finally, Dromon,
Xebec and Felecca are recruited.

Forest Ruins HQ

Return back to HQ. The Assassin
will greet you again. He asks
about Icas, then leaves. Hmm.

Naineneis

As you get here, the Assassin is
here too. What's he up to? Oh,
nothing.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back here, the assassin is back.
He wants you to go show him that
Icas really is here. Then
leaves.

It was 'bud' season, so Namna
was back to check on the Sea God
aka Neira. Again Namna leaves,
but will be back later.

Ch'olui Mountains

Travel up these mountains to see
what really happened. Go towards
'the peak', and when you go west
a bit you'll reach the cliff
where the mountains disappear.
Hero makes a comment, and you
can get the Wtr Dragon
Claws.Exit out to the west down
this rope, to put you in the
western plains where the Furious
Roar Tribe appeared. Head south
to a temple where a purple Roar
tells you to turn back. You
should head back, but you can
enter this temple here. It is a
GREAT place for leveling up to
the low 30's, one of the best
options right now.

Tehah Village

After examing Ch'olui Mountains,
return back to Tehah Village. Go
to the Plaza to see Nhazu. He
too seems to be all negative
about Dogha. Agree to go take
him up to Dogha's hut. The party
will then appear there, on
Ch'olui Mountains. Even Dogha
believes himself to be a senile
old man. Strange how people's
opinions on people and things
change as things disappear / re-
appear. Return back to HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

Talk to Moana to see Search for
Nhazu! Nhazu has been gone since
yesterday, and the townspeople
are worried. Sign up for it, and
you'll be at Tehah Village. Talk
to the villagers and they assume
he's at the mountain. You then
appear at Dogha's hut, who
claims he can't help in the
search. He does some thinking
though and remembers something.

Just east of his hut is a ledge
with a rope that Nhazu probably
went down. Follow the path to
see Nhazu bundled up in a
corner. Talk to him, and the two
of them begin to remember some
more things.

You'll appear back at Tehah
Village after this. Some
talking, and a few of the
villagers change their opinion
on Dogha. Not much to be said
after this, besides Nhazu
wanting to come to your company
but is planning to rest for a
bit.

As you return back to Forest
Ruins HQ, Dogha and Nhazu beat
you to it. Dogha leaves us, not
believing the visions from the
Chronicle. Nhazu is recruited
however. After you recruit
Nhazu, exit and re-enter Forest
Ruins HQ from the back entrance.
Dogha and Nhazu will both be
here. Speak with Dogha to
recruit him. He seems to want to
stay and protect Nhazu.

Report on the Search for Nhazu!
Mission. You get 10000 Potch.
Now, Get Rid of the Snow Fairy
appears. Prepare your party for
the Ch'olui Mountains, I'm
bringing the Ch'olui classics
Dogha and Nhazu (actually
nevermind - after going through,
the snow fairy will not appear
if you bring Dogha).

Ch'olui Mountains

Head for the peak, then taking a
north route in the west area
towards that statue. But someone
else is there. This girl seems
educated about a fight 1000
years earlier. This is Maybelle,
reborn from the Warrior of Light
Raphelancia. She thinks you to
be the sky-blue armor clad hero
Ru'ukahthis. Hero runs far away
from this girl.

Go back towards Dogha's house.
Travel northwest from here to
see the Snow Fairy (again, if
you brought Dogha, you will not
see her). The Snow Fairy gets in
battle with you and tosses a 200
damage snow magic attack on you.
Time to retreat back to your
base to talk to Dogha.

Forest Ruins HQ

I returned with Asad in my
party, and he heard back news
about Nakil. Asad leaves your
party for now. Not sure how long
it takes for him to come back,
maybe a season or two it seemed.

It just turned bud season, so I
went to see the Porpos-kin. Sure
enough, Namna was there seeing
Neira. Hero mentions that Namna
comes around an awful lot, but
Namna then leaves.

Talk to Dogha by the back
entrance. He seems to know this
Snow Fairy, and he tells you to
tell her that you are full.
Return to Ch'olui Mountains.

Ch'olui Mountains

Go back to where you met the
Snow Fairy. This time, tell her
that you are full (third
choice). Just ask her to join
you, and Sphiel willing does.
Aftering recruiting Snow Fairy
Sphiel, leave this mountain.

Forest Ruins HQ

Report on Get Rid of the Snow
Fairy. You acquire Ch'olui
Cabbage. Great. Sign up for Find
My Fated Lover next. As soon as
you sign up, Maybelle finds you
and professes her love once
again. Hero is mean to her and
she leaves. Report on the quest
right away for 10000 potch.

Get on the elevator and go to
the fourth floor, and then east
all the way into Hero's room.
Marica and Jale run in,
wondering what is going on. Jale
takes Maybelle outside.

Now put a female in your party,
and leave the HQ via one of the
exits. Maybelle seems to be
watching you. Say 'that's it, I
can't take it anymore', and the
scene will fade to Hero and
Maybelle in Hero's room. "You
want me to touch it, like
this?", she says. After she
touches it she has a vision, but
makes Hero mad and he leaves.
Re-enter the room and talk to
her to recruit Maybelle finally.

Went outside and walked around
for 15 days or so to pass the
season, and Nakil comes back
with Asad. Asad saved Nakil, and
now Nakil is recruited.
Recruiting Nakil has been a
problem for some, along with
Hafin.Wasn't too hard for me
though.

Mislato River

After the above scene with Asad
and Nakil (may be switched
around to Hafin instead there),
head to Mislato River with Asad
in your party. Just as you
enter, you will run into Hafin.
He has deserted the Magedom as
well, and that's all you have to
do to recruit Hafin.

Finally, it's time to advance
the story. After about 15
recruits and hours of side
quests.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the 4th floor strategy
room. Tell them that you're
ready to set out, unless you
aren't. You then have to form
two party's, one led by Hero and
the other by Chrodechild.
Chrodechild has her Blades with
her, Meruvis and Roberto. Hero
has Liu with him. Bring decent
enough allies with you.

Next, you see Order troops
rallying, including a Lieutenant
you haven't seen before. Hero's
troops attack just as Diulf's
do, but Hero fights the first
battle. You have a Cynas
Conscript, Cynas Archer and
Cynas Captain. They have tight
defenses, but only take off
50-70 at most. 2 Mega Medicines
and a Revival Statue are your
rewards.

Some shouting goes on between
Hero and the Roars. Run north a
bit until you engage in another
battle against that Cynas group.

Next, a scene at the enemy camp
with some strange lady warrior
named Fredegund offering to go
out. Turns out the Lieutenant's
name is Beardsley. Liu and Hero
can sense something is amiss
near the Blades of Night's Veil.
The Blades recognize her as
Fredegund, Chrodechild's sister.
Fredegund has the Divine Edge
Sword. She wipes everyone out
with that sword. Fredegund wipes
out Hero's entire team too. But
Fredegund's mind starts to get
warped, and combined with the
advancing troops from the rear,
the enemy has to retreat.

Furious Roar Tribe

You appear at the Roar Tribe's
place. Rest, then leave the area
and Lycia comes up to chat.
Afterwards, go to the House of
the King. King Diulf is here. He
has an object he wishes you to
see, and actually when Diulf
touches it, he has the vision.
Hero has it too. It is of
Cougar, in battle.

Hero ends up back at the Inn. Go
out, and to the town square. You
talk about Cougar with
Servillah, Diulf and Lycia. They
seem to think that they were
destined to be Starbearers in
this world for some reason, and
agree to join forces with Hero.
Plus, you get Furious Roar
Chronicle. Time to head back to
Forest Ruins HQ, says Liu.

Forest Ruins HQ

As you get back, Atrie is here.
Hero wants to chat with him in
his room. Before that, report on
Help the Furious Roar! You gain
30000 potch and Argent Fists.
Probably should distribute
abilities to you new Furious
Roar friends. Plus, now that you
have a fifth chronicle you have
a fifth ability to choose from.
You can still only equip 4, but
now you can eliminate some of
the weaker ones that you don't
use anymore.

Sign up for Playacting
Priestess. Not sure if it
matters who you send on this,
just pick a full party of high-
level characters. However the
other two quests on the board
you cannot complete. Plowin' the
Fields 2 has been hard for me to
complete even with characters
who average 150 attack power.
Furious Roar Goods is a quest
where you need all characters to
have 100 luck (except the leader
of team two, which has to be
Hotupa). This will take a while
for you, since it's hard getting
many characters over 100 luck.
The key is buying items at a
later city.

For now though, you can't exit
the castle. You have to go to
your room to talk to Atrie.
Atrie, Hero, and Liu have a good
talk about the worlds, Cougar,
the island that appeared in
Atrie's world, and more.

After Atrie leaves, go to the
2nd floor and west to see the
Blades of Night's Veil.
Chrodechild apologizes for
Fredegund's behavior. Fredegund
is the second princess of
Astrasia. Some dialogue about
Astrasia, and then Hero declares
that it is time to invade - Liu
agrees. Liu goes to round
everyone up and talk.

Take this time to go out, move
around for a few days, and come
back. Report on Playacting
Princess for 1000 potch.

Cragbark

Head here and go to the General
Store. If you've done the Icas
quest, and have seen the
assassin as your HQ, Naineneis,
and your HQ again, then the
assassin should be in here
asking about tribe customs. He
talks to you a bit more about
why he's after Icas, and really
doesn't seem to care much about
it anymore. He runs off after
asking about Pekklar meat.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the fourth floor strategy
room. Servillah offers to
infiltrate the place, with how
agile Furious Roar members are.
After this, go out and travel
around for a bit, then come
back.

Moana has a note from Prince
Shams. Go to the third floor,
and all the way to the right to
see Asad, Mubal and Manaril. Go
outside, walk around for a bit,
then come back. The Roar ladies
will be back, in the strategy
room. They bring in someone who
knows about the conditions
there, someone that Chrodechild
knows
- Guntram. It seems the Order's
  control over Astrasia Kingdom
  is not as strong
as one would think. The order's
defeats to your company have
proved that they can't really
predict the future. With
Chrodechild on the front line,
the citizens should switch over
soon. Give the signal to attack.

You have two parties, one led by
Hero and one led by Diulf. Hero
also has Chrodechild. Be sure to
equip Diulf with some new armor
and maybe a pair of Argent
Fists. You have a new mission
accepted.

Pharamond

The scene shifts to Astrasia,
with Beardsley and Fredegund.
'We must prepare for a sortie!'
says Fredegund. Chaos reigns in
Pharamond as the people of
Astrasia are taking up arms.

As Hero and Chrodechild run in,
Diulf offers to take out the
fodder for Hero. Unless you
picked a weak party or didn't
equip Diulf, this should be very
easy. You see a few swordsmen
after this, one of which calls
Fredegund a traitor. This young
one is named Quillard.

Run further east after this,
until you are in the castle and
see a strange monster. Take out
General Guts, then run east for
a battle against Fredegund.
During the duel, Chrodechild
acquires the Divine Edge Blade.
Then you fight her in battle one
on one. Just use Basic Falcon,
hopefully you score some nice
500+ hp hits. Fredegund uses it
too though, so stay healed.
Fredegund generally goes before
Chrodechild, unless Chrodechild
is healing. After the battle,
Fredegund regains her senses and
the Lieutenant runs off.
Astrasia has been restored,
Pharamond is yours.

Walk out of the room with Hero
to come to the swordsman. This
young guy is Amaralicht, the guy
with the little bro named
Quillard. Talk to your friends
in this room (Meruvis, Roberto,
Diulf) and then go east to see
Chrodechild. Fredegund
apologizes for wreaking havoc
with her blade.

Speaking of, Hero touches the
blade to get a vision of some
sword-wielding warrior from an
old vision. Talk to them and
decide it would probably be
safer to shore up defenses here
at Pharamond in case of an Order
attack by the One King. Guntram
and Fredegund are recruited. You
also get Twin: Blades, Twin:
Flash and Twin: Flame.

Cynas

Back in Cynas, we see Valfred
talking to Diadora about
Princess Fredegund.

Forest Ruins HQ

Everyone is back at HQ, to
gather their forces and move to
Pharamond temporarily. Report on
Pharamond Siege for 50000 potch.
Sign up for Secret of the Black
Blades, and send some strong
characters (mine were all
160-180 attack power). Go out
and walk around for a bit. In
fact, go to Pharamond. Check out
their weapon / armor / accessory
shop - very nice. Buy something
like 7 Noble's Boots, for the
luck upgrade. And Treasure
Swords for massive luck upgrade,
and anything else you have money
for because there are some
powerful weapons here.

When you return after 10 days or
so, the assassin will be back!
His name is Ouragan. You then
recruit Ouragan, as he decides
to watch over Icas and help out
the company. Report no Secret of
the Black Blades to get a Black
Blade.

Head to the Strategy Room. Your
forces have packed up their
things for the move to
Pharamond.

Pharamond

Just as you get there, Hero
takes a nap. Roberto then wakes
him up, saying Bandits have
invaded the castle. Go up the
east stairs onto the rooftop to
see Fergus. Just use Defense
Barrier, and then Masterpiece
him to death. At 500 HP per
Masterpiece, it should take
about three of them to down
Fergus.

Liu comes running from the other
side now. Follow the path that
Fergus took past the ramparts.
Sure enough, the Archivists are
inside already.

Diadora shows you that there is
a Gateway, right to this room!
That is how they snuck in. From
the Gateway, Diadora summons a
Cyclops. Use Defense Canopy with
Liu, and then Silence Sand for
700-800 damage. Hero's
Masterpiece does about 600-700.
At this rate, the battle
shouldn't take much more than a
few turns, even with just Hero
and Liu. You gain a Moonlight
Stone.

Chrodechild runs in. Time to
battle these three Archivists.
Chrodechild unfortunately was
planted in the back row, so I
had to use Basic Falcon (not a
bad option anyway). Liu can use
Defense Canopy again and Magic
Canopy to deal with Diadora's
powerful magic spear attack
(normally 80 on Liu / Hero, 120
on Chrodechild). Sophia can
blast you with that Sand magic
too. Nova is actually one of the
easier targets in terms of
attacking you, but his defense
is hard to penetrate after they
put a shield up on him. After
about 5-6 turns, the battle
ends.

You lose Noble Steel, Fierce
Regalia, Cerulean Flux, Furious
Roar, and your mission is
accomplished.

Infinity

Liu, Hero and Chrodechild are
sent into a bright yellow place.
Move around, and things become
clear. This is Atrie's World.
Then you see Marica in her
world. And then some other
strange world. Finally, you get
teleported to a Woods area.
Further east, and you see a
settlement. Liu seems to
recognize this place.

You are greeted by Luo-Tao of
the Scribes. Luo-Tao talks about
the Ravine of Infinity. He says
if you have further questions,
speak with your companion Liu-
Shen. Figures, Liu was hiding
some things. Check out the
place, though most won't talk
much. The weapon / armor /
accessory shop is absolutely
loaded with goodies, but you are
still probably broke from
Pharamond. Go along the path and
talk to the scribes, especially
the far-west one. He seems to be
a friend of Liu.

Go to the vacant home to chat
with Liu about his past, of
scribes, and tells you why he
didn't tell Hero earlier.

Cynas

The scene shifts to Cynas once
more, with Valfred thanking the
Archivists.

Scribe Woodland Village

Back in Scribe-land, save and
leave the house. Luo-Tao greets
you, to bring you to the
venerable one. Enter the Pth to
Grt Tree after this talk.

Noslaw Woods

You are now in the thick Noslaw
Woods. Go straight north and you
will quickly see a huge tree
castle. Lao-Kwan seems to be the
honored one inside. Liu freaks
out once he sees Len-Lien.

Lao Kwan is an old lady, but she
has some sage information for
us. Valfred of the Order has
acquired the True Chronicle.
After a long talk, it still is
not entirely clear to the Hero.
But something is going on
outside - time to check it out.

Diadora is outside. She realizes
the Elder Scribe drew your party
here. Diadora tries to trick you
to giving her the Chronicles,
but don't fall for it. She
summons some monsters, and it's
time to fight two Mage Art
Gadgets. Use your Defense and
Magic Canopy to set up a
defense, though you might not
necessarily need it. They just
shake each turn, not doing much.

Diadora tries some stuff after
this, but fails. Then she
leaves. But you hear a scream
north of you, so go check on
Lao-Kwan. Liu gets a special
title after this, and you gain
the Tatau Council after another
vision. Time to find a way back
to your world to continue your
fight against the Order.

Save your game, then leave that
area. The other scribes come
here and denounce you, until
Luo-Tao stands up for you. He
agrees to join you in your fight
against the Order. After you
recruit Luo-Tao, check out the
rest of the village if you'd
like. As you leave, Len-Lien
agrees to join you too.

Noslaw Woods

As you exit out of the village,
you find yourself in the Noslaw
Woods. Ignore the south path
that leads to the grassy area
(dead end). Instead, go west and
look for the next south path
which has a Sky-Rend Bow. Now go
further west, ignoring the
northwest dead end and go
southwest to a new screen.

In this area, just weave your
way west to a new area. West in
the third area to see a dead
end, but a treasure past this.
Go south, west, and work your
way north to that treasure - it
is a powerful Master Robe (high
end Suikoden mage armor since
Suiko I). Southwest and you are
out of the woods.

Turns out you are just north of
Naineneis. Head back to
Pharamond, but you are stopped
at Naineneis, where a Porpos-kin
tells you to hurry back. So do
that.

--------------------------------

The walkthrough resumes after
returning from the Scribes
Woodland Village.

Pharamond

As you get there, you get one
good piece of news at least.
Hotupa has linked the Gateway
here with the one at Forest
Ruins HQ, so there is no reason
to keep the army stationed at
Pharamond. That said, the enemy
is planning an attack so hurry
to Forest Ruins HQ and then back
to Pharamond.

Forest Ruins HQ

Your friends are happy to see
you. Everyone is gathered in the
strategy room, and you can't
leave Forest Ruins HQ. So go up
to the 4th floor room to chat.
Four of the 7 Chronicles have
been stolen from the company.

Word comes in that Vaslof and
his beasts are facing off at
Fort Arc with the Magedom of
Janam. You have two parties to
fill out here - one starting
with Hero and Liu, the other
with Chrodechild and Fredegund.
Might want to get a magician or
two with the latter pair. Then,
the groups head off through the
gateway to Pharamond.

Pharamond - Wilds of Veile

Hero goes off to the northeast
to meet the enemy, which has
amassed near Pharamond.

In this new Wilds of Veile area,
going east all the way initially
leads to a dead end. If you take
the last north route, you meet
three auster soldiers. Use
Defense Canopy right away,
because these guys are powerful
front line fighters. They have
stiff physical defenses, but I
had the Ice Queen using Spear
Torrent and the austers just
couldn't handle it (900 damage
to all each time). After this
battle, the scene shifts to
Fredegund and Chrodechild.

The two ladies run into
Beardsley. Unless you have a
weak party, this should be easy.
Beardsley uses magic in the
back, fire and poison-like magic
for about 100 damage. The
Conscripts take off
insignificant damage so long as
you can use Fredegund's barrier.
They do have a stingy D, along
with Beardsley. So the battle
will last a while. Fortunately,
our friend Beardsley drops an
Old Tree Spear, and two Revival
Statues.

Once this battle is over, you
take control of Hero's party. Go
northeast to go to a new area.
East all the way to meet Vaslof.
Time for yet another battle
against him and two Austers.
This time though, you can take
him. It was very easy for me
since I had Sphiel, and he Spear
Torrent makes short work of all
of them. Vaslof didn't even get
a chance to attack, stuck in the
back row. With Liu's Defense
Canopy, you should be safe from
physical attacks. As stated, any
kind of magic will rip these
three apart. You'll level up to
34 or so, and acquire the Beetle
Axe and two Mega Medicine.

Vaslof and Hero chat for a bit,
wondering why his Austers have
joined the order. After a bit,
Resno runs in and tells him to
get back. Mission accomplished,
as Resno and Vaslof leave.

Cynas

Meanwhile in Cynas, Valfred sees
that Hero is doing a lot since
he has returned. It seems
Valfred has plans for Dirk.
Report on Nab the Intruders for
1000 potch and Defend Pharamond!
for 30000 potch.

To advance the story, we are to
go to the meeting room. But
there are things to do that we
haven't had a chance to do, so
let's do them. Bring Chrodechild
and Fredegund with.

Pharamond

Walk towards the castle, to see
Yula. Talk to her twice, and
she'll go into the castle with
Chrodechild. Use Basic Falcon,
and you should be alright
(though she takes off a ton
herself). Chrodechild will level
up all the way to 40 or so.

After the duel, Yula gets the
vision after touching
Chrodechild's blade. As a
Starbearer, she joins you,
realizing the Order is a threat.
Re-enter the palace after
recruiting Yula. Talk to the two
kid swordsmen, and Quillard once
again says that Fredegund should
be punished. Quillard runs off
outside of the city.

Wilds of Veile

Take the route you took with
Hero to meet the Austers. East
past where you fought Vaslof is
a new area, where some Cynas
Conscripts are messing with
Quillard. Nothing tough here,
though there are three of them
(Spear Torrent blew them away in
round 1).

Quillard is happy to see
Amaralicht here to save him. The
Divine Edge shines after this,
with Quillard and Amaralicht
proving to be Starbearers. You
have recruited Amaralicht and
Quillard.

Cragbark

Time to head for the Furious
Roar Tribe. Put Lycia in your
party, and from Cragbark, go
back to the plains above and
enter. Now go straight north
from Cragbark. Lycia should
mention that something dangerous
is here.

Lycia is in a duel with Chein.
Regular attacks work best (300+
damage with Argent Fists). Heal
with Mega Medicine - Chein has
two types of attacks, a regular
one for 80 damage and a Mark of
the Stars stab for about 110.
She has a high agility so be
cautious about healing, but if
you die it's not game over
either.

Lycia talks a bit with Chein and
then Hero. Chein looks to be the
only human from the Furious Roar
world to have came here.

Back at Cragbark, go to the
house of the king. Chein is here
with Tigre. Tell her it's okay
to touch the book, and she does
get the visions everyone else
had. As a starbearer, Chein is
now recruited.

Pharamond

Enter the throne room. Now that
you have defended Astrasia, talk
to Guntram. He is surprised
about Liu but even more
surprised about the Woodsland.
Guntram talks of it being a
place where nearby people go who
have given up hope, and seems to
think some lady has made her way
there.

Head to the Inn, and take out
any Scribes (like Liu) if you
have them in your party. Put
Guntram Chrodechild and
Fredegund in your party.

Noslaw Woods

Inside the Noslaw Woods, go east
a few screens (assuming you came
from the south end). Eventually
you run into a strange, wild man
named Bosche. He is the
Adventurer's Adventurer. Then he
runs off, wanting to show you
his beautiful wife. So travel
east just a tad more, to meet
Lathilda. Hopefully you brought
some of the Astrasia people,
like Fredegund, Guntram, or
Chrodechild. Lathilda will then
go talking about how she used to
live there but left after the
Order took control (note how she
mis-spells her husbands name as
'Bosch'). Go ahead and take her
to Pharamond, to show her the
new Astrasian capital.

Bosche and Lathilda will be
amazed at the new, peaceful
Pharamond. Bosche decides it
would be a good idea to fight by
your side and clear out the
Order for his wife. Lathilda too
joins your army.

Woodland Village

Talk to the Scribe-man with a
unique portrait, further to the
left along the 'Path'. He seems
to want to follow Liu, but he
still won't. Keep checking back
with him after important plot
events pass.

Giney Valley

You may be able to do this quest
earlier, but I forgot about this
character and must have had Liu
in my party when I went through
Giney Valley (because the
character doesn't show up if you
bring Liu, so don't take him).
Anyway, from the east entrance,
take the northwest path, and you
should see a blue figure ahead.

The mysterious woman asks about
the Elder Scribe, Liu. Then she
walks off. We'll see her later.

Forest Ruins HQ

At your HQ, make sure Yula and
Chrodechild are not in your
party, then go to the Blades of
Night's Veil part of HQ (2nd
floor, west end). Yula and
Chrodechild will be talking
about the legendary blademaster
Mourgent. Build up Yula at the
Noslaw Woods (close to level
30). Then return to HQ, take her
out of the party, then talk to
Moana.

She has a request from Gadburg
so sign up for that.

Ruins near Citro Village

You appear in these strange
ruins. Gadburg calls for
Mourgent. Hard to believe this
swordsman is still around, but
Mourgent walks right on down.
After some chatting, it seems
like Yula has been following us.
She just runs up and challenges
Mourgent to a duel. Just use
Basic Falcon, that is all she
really has with just three
Chronicles at her disposal. He
has but 500-600 HP, and it is a
short battle (not even sure if
winning is essential). But
afterwards, Mourgent is
pressured to join by Gadburg and
Yula, and he finally does. You
have recruited Mourgent.

Forest Ruins HQ

Return to your HQ, and report on
Request from Gadburg. You gain
50000 potch and the Evil-Eye
Sword.

We have been doing optional
recruits for a while, but to
advance the story, go to the
strategy room. Luo-Tao tells us
that he can sense where a
Chronicle is. He is going to go
to where the Chronicles are, and
work on finding out where the
other four are.

After this talk, go to the first
floor. Moana tells you that
Elder Rajim is here. Elder is by
the back entrance, so Hero and
Liu go chat with him. Rajim goes
to mess with Liu because of the
tattoos, and Rajim seems to get
a vision. Evidently Elder Rajim
is a starbearer as well.

Hero then goes and has a chat
with Zenoa. Ask her a bunch of
questions - it's actually quite
insightful, but information you
probably had a good idea on
before this. Liu leaves, as he
has to stay here in the event
Diadora shows up and Liu would
then have to use that power
which the Elder Scribe used.

Sign up for Return of Megion,
and you'll need to bring Diulf
and his crew back to Cragbark.

Cragbark

Once you are at Cragbark, you
meet two new Roar - Eusmil and
Nictis. They are Megion's crew.
Tigre tells you about the
Decaved Ruins, northeast of
Cragbark. You've already been
here and met Megion once before
(if you remember, it's the ruins
past the exit once you get to
the end of Ch'olui Mountains).

So rest up, gather your party,
and enter those Mysterious Ruins
the same way you did earlier
(through the mountains).

Mysterious Ruins

This place is strange in that
you'll find some tough monsters,
and some really low level
monsters. head south all the
way, then west. West all the way
is a dead end, but the north
route before that is a Lazuli
Rod, very powerful and worth
getting.

West all the way through the
middle path leads you to those
three Roars. This is a rare
difficult battle, especially if
you haven't built the Roars up
much. Focus on Megion first,
because he'll up his attack
power and then has an attack
that will do 300+ damage. The
other two are just minor
nuisances, though their regular
attacks are just a tad worse
than Megion's. My roars were
about level 25-26 going into
this battle, but reached 34-35
afterwards.

The enemy roars wonder about the
One King after the battle,
coming to their senses a bit.
Hero and Diulf prompt them to
touch the Chronicle. The roars
regain some of their memory, and
are then grateful to fight by
your side - you have recruited
Megion, Eusmil and Nictis.

Forest Ruins HQ

Report on the Return of Megion
Mission for Wtr Dragon Claws.

Sign up for My Husband's
Birthplace and Zenoa Interview.
Just 1000 potch and 100 potch,
worthless quests. A lot of these
types popping up now.

Order Soldiers in Plains could
be good, as you get a pretty
random assortment of characters.
Roberto wants to go, as does
Chein and Ouragan even. But they
don't actually fight in battle
(unless you put them in).
Anyway, these three Cynas
Conscripts have stellar
defenses, and pack quite a punch
too. All they do is regular
attacks though, and guard. Your
characters will go up to about
level 33 for victory.

Run straight north to the next
screen. North more (west path
going north) to reach some
different looking Order
soldiers, including that Captain
stationed at Fort Arc back in
the day. Funny stuff from
Ouragan here, and a fight breaks
out. Use magic if you want to
take out the Cynas Archers in
the back, otherwise just push
through the Conscript up front
and the battle is yours.

Next though, we have a battle
against the Cynas Captain, along
with a Cynas Archer and Cynas
Mage. The Captain is a bit more
powerful than the others you've
fought, while the mage tends to
use regular attacks more than
actual magic. Still, taking out
the back row first might be a
better idea, so that you can
control who gets attacked a
little better. By the end of
this battle, you should be level
35 or so.

Return to Forest Ruins HQ
(actually, you do
automatically). Report on Order
Soldiers in Plains for 50000
potch.

Pharamond

Go to the second floor of the
Inn in Pharamond. At this point
you should see Savina by the
window - if not, you might need
to wait longer or talk to Icas
and see if he mentions it (I had
to do neither, however). Agree
to help her save Darrow, but he
is in Cynas so Hero tells her it
will take some time. At any
rate, Savina is recruited for
the time being.

Forest Ruins HQ

Get ready to do Gather Animals!
For this, you will need high
speed (running man icon) and
luck (yellow star). Leveling
people up at the Wilds of Veile
to 33-34 should start to weed
out the characters that have
naturally high speed and luck.
Now remember there are weapons /
accessories that up your other
stats. At Pharamond, you can buy
a bunch of Treasure Swords,
equipping 2 on some characters
for a total of +60 luck! Along
with the Noble gear, you should
be able to get enough characters
with at least 80-100 agility and
luck. Send these parties out to
Gather Animals, and you get 5000
potch and Pekklar Meat for your
troubles.

Finished up some pointless
quests, like Servillah and
Eusmil for 1000 potch. Atrie's
World wasn't worthless though
actually. You get a Scale
Shield, and also Moana says that
the group that went to the other
world saw someone from our own
world there.

Grayridge Mine

Hotupa and Hero appear at the
Grayridge Gateway. Hotupa saves
this Scruffy Man, who continues
to cry. He leaves, and
thankfully you are automatically
transported to Grayridge town.
Put Logan in your party.

Go down the alley, all the way
to the right. Logan recognizes
Lubberkin, as they both were
miners. He is upset at the
Grayridge he has come home too,
so he joins your cause against
the Order. Lubberkin is
recruited.

Cragbark

Now that you have completed the
Gather Animals! Mission (see
above), you can recruit Autar.
Go to the town square to see
Autar, and he will join you
right after.

Forest Ruins HQ

Sign up for The Green Stone.
Turns out Len-Lien has Liu's
stone. You get to see into Liu's
love life for a second, and
report Liu's Green Stone mission
for 100 potch.

Enough side-questing. Go to the
second floor, east section.
Where the Chronicles are. Talk
to Luo-Tao and he can sense the
Chronicles now. It seems the
Archivists have them, and they
are bringing them closer to the
castle! It could be a big
attack.

Go to the fourth floor strategy
room now. You have four parties
here to help split up and get
the Chronicles back. Hero and
Liu are one, with Logan and Jale
as another, Asad, Chrodechild
and Manaril as the third and
finally Neira and Nimni lead the
fourth party. Diulf has a group
but you don't control them. Lots
of members to fill in, just make
sure you have balanced parties
(a magician / healer type, along
with two front line fighters).

Mislato River

As this starts off, the Porpos-
kin encounter Conon near the
Magedom part of Mislato River.
Conon turns into a monster! Wtr
Dragn Conon is your new enemy.
Use high powered magic attacks,
like Spear Torrent and Sleep
Frost (I had Ice Queen in this
battle, along with Niera's
magical brilliance). Two-Spear
Attack is quite powerful by
Nimni. Wtr Dragn Conon uses 100+
attack physical attacks, and a
Spear Torrrent himself for
100-180 damage if unprotected
with Magic Canopy. Also, this
boss has over 3000 HP, probably
closer to 4000. Your reward for
victory is an Evil-Eye Sword and
Dragon Hide. The Porpos-kin
regain the Cerulean Flux.

Now it's Logan's turn. He meets
Fergus, who is looking for Hero.
Fergus too turns into a monster,
this time it's StlGiant Fergus.
Even with Defense Canopy up,
this boss almost takes off 100
per physical attack. Use Logan
and Jale's Two-way attacks for
500 damage, and keep them healed
for the 30 damage run-off from
using those abilities (plus the
100 they acrue from the physical
attacks by the StlGiant Fergus).
Uncut Sapphire and Giant's Armor
are your rewards, in another
long battle with a boss that has
4000+ hp. Fergus then turns into
the Chronicle of Noble Steel.

Chrodechild and Asad get to
fight Sophia and Nova. Nova has
a ton of HP in this battle, and
acts as his usual tank-self.
Probably close to 4000 damage
before he even gets on his knees
(near death). His physical
attacks are brutal even with a
shield up, while Sophia can
carve you up with a staff
attack. Even though your party
is probably doing fine, Hero has
to jump in with his group. The
battle is pretty much the same,
Nova takes another 5000 HP or so
and then the battle ends.

Just as it looks like Hero and
Asad's group are in trouble,
Manaril starts chanting and
draws something from the
Chronicle. Sophia passes out,
and you regain the Fierce
Regalia Chronicle.

Last is the Furious Roar
Chronicle, and guess who comes
up to HQ with the Chronicle.
None other than Dirk, up to meet
Diulf. Hero and Liu go out to
meet him but they start at the
top of the castle, so you can
run down and save /rest along
the way. Or change your party.
Go to the front entrance to see
Dirk.

He says Chancellor Valfred gave
him this Furious Roar Chronicle.
Dirk turns into a pink beast,
Demon Beast Dirk. The Demon
Beast likes to roar, and then
used a rolling attack for
120-140 damage on everyone (but
halved if you have Defense
Canopy up, which you should).
It'd help if you brought someone
who could heal everyone a little
instead of having to use
multiple people to heal with
Medicine. Dirk also has a Flame
Explosion spell for high magic
damage on one ally. Liu's
Silence Sand is effective to the
tune of 700+ damage, which he
should use after he puts a
Canopy or two up. Dirk has a ton
of hp, probably near 6000. Your
characters will level all the
way up to 37-39, and gain a
Demon Horn. Head back inside the
castle.

Cynas

After seeing the Citro Village
folks talks about Dirk, the
scene shifts to Cynas where
Valfred is congratulating Dirk
on his efforts. He has been
promoted as an Archivist of the
One True Way. The location of
the 10th world is mentioned.

Forest Ruins HQ

Hero gets word from the Magedom
of Janam about a possible attack
on the enemy. For now though,
report on some missions. Engage
the Archivists nets you 10000
potch. Also had sent out a group
to Marica's? World, to see that
Marica is the Tenkai Star there.
This is worth doing even if you
already did the Jale / Atrie
one, because you get a Crescent
Axe.

It was bud season, so I visited
with Namna once again. And
finally, the dialogue changed
and I was able to recruit Namna.
I probably visited Namna almost
10 times, but maybe the earliest
time to recruit is after the
last plot event (recovering the
Chronicles).

Go to the port area, where the
Lonomakua Pirates are. Talk to
them, specifically Xebec, a few
times. Then head back to Moana.
A new request should have shown
up, Letter from Lonomakua.
Accept this quest, and fill up
the Pirate party. Xebec will
recognize the name Hina Aumakua,
a blood relative of the
Lonomakua Chief. They'll go off
on this quest, which takes a
whopping 40 days.

Return to report on Letter from
Lonomakua, for 10000 potch. Also
you get a scene with the Dromon
Pirates returning, as they bring
Hina with. You recruit Hina,
daughter of the Tribal Council
Head of Lanamakua, Kane Hekili
Aumakua.

Also sign up for I Can't Take My
Mask Off! Hero tries to yank
Yovel's mask off, but it doesn't
work. Morrin comes in to re-
assure Yovel. The party then
talks to Balsam about this super
strong glue. Evidently all you
need is some Squidcreeper Sap to
counter it. However these King
Squidcreepers are not in this
world! Hero can't go, but Yovel
still wants to. Now report I
Can't Take My Mask Off! for 100
potch.

To follow up, sign up for Seek
Squidcreeper Sap. As you read
the directions carefully, the
enemy is underwater. So fill up
your party with Porpos-kin to
take out this squid. When you
return, you get 50000 potch,
Fish Guts, Whale Tusk, and
Prismatic Peach for reporting
Seek Squidcreeper Sap.

If you want to continue the
story, go to the fourth floor
strategy room. A joint attack
seems like a good idea, but the
Order is being strange in
withdrawing already. Something
might be up, like at Ladzaa
Fortress. The Hero has gotta
tell them, and he says Asad,
Manaril and Mubal should go
with. Manaril just acts as a
companion, so you will have
another member to choose to
bring with.

In Flesaria Forest, the party
stops to see a huge light. They
hurry to the Magedom.

Magedom of Janam

A huge desert is where El-Qaral
used to be. Well, start off by
heading south a long ways until
you reach an Oasis of sorts.
Near the water is a Chakram, a
powerful long range weapon.

To the far southeast are some
Mysterious Ruins, but we are not
worrying about them now. In the
far northeast of the desert is
an exit that Asad does not allow
you to take - to El-Qaral he
says. But head west a tad and
then straight south from this
point - you will come to some
more ruins and a red dot, so
enter. Manaril and Asad freak
out.

Cynas

Diadora too is upset with the
Magedom being erased. Valfred
says he had to do it with them
plotting to attack with your
army. Dirk is off to find
another False Chronicle.

Janam Desert

From the city ruins, travel
south for a ways until you can
no further. Then go east to see
the exit towards Salsabil.

Salsabil

Thankfully Salsabil is unharmed.
Of course, since they are not
starbearers, they feel like the
Magedom of Janam never existed,
and they are under their own
power. Go to the Mansion to see
Taj first.

Shams and the king and queen are
in the far west room. They don't
remember anything either, but
history has changed a bit.
Still, Shams wishes to join you
to fight the Order. Walk around
the Trade area - seems that guy
forgot about his wife in Janam
but still kind of remembers her.
A lady west of him mentions the
United Kingdom of Ritterschild.

Go to the Inn now. At night,
Shams comes by. He hands you the
Arcane Academy Chronicle, and
you have a vision about the Hero
and an explosion. Shams then
noticed that everyone forgot
about the Mage Lord, their
families, and Janam. After the
talk, you recruit Shams and then
acquire the Ancient Covenant
Chronicle.

As you go to leave, Taj
accompanies you along the way,
but leaves once you reach the
Desert. Or is about to, until
Dirk shows up. Another battle
against Demon Beast Dirk -
despite having someone like Taj
who cannot use Mark of the
Stars, you should still be okay.
Hero can do 750 damage+ with
Flame Vortex while Asad can do
almost 700 if you use Ire and
then Masterpieces. Mubal can act
as your healer, and Taj should
defend the whole time pretty
much (try to keep him alive).

The battle ends automatically it
seems, and Dirk flees for now.
Allow Taj to come along, Shams
will finally agree.

Forest Ruins HQ

Hero reports on the Magedom of
Janam disappearing. There is a
new chronicle there that must be
recovered before the Archivists
find it. Luo-Tao and Hotupa will
go with Hero to find it.

Cynas

Valfred talks of the recent
doings. The 10th Chronicle must
be found.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go back inside, and report on
some quests. I had Find the
Sticky Criminal! to report on
for 5000 potch. For Hurry to the
Magedom you get 10000 potch. A
bunch of new quests should have
popped up thanks to the desert.
Pay Back Time has nothing to do
with that but it's a neat
request as the other world slave
from Grayridge goes back to the
world he escaped to tell them
off. Once returning and
reporting on the quest, you find
out that the town disappeared
like Janam. 100 potch is your
reward.

I Want to See the Elder is from
that mysterious woman you met as
Giney Valley a while back. She
wants to see the Scribe Elder,
which would be Hero's close
friend. Accompany him to North
Flesaria Forest to meet the
woman. She knows he is the
Chronicle of the Tatau Council.
The red tattoos symbolize that
she is an exile. She then
introduces herself as Mun-Shang.
She wanted to oppose the order
just like Liu, but was banished
because of it. She is jealous of
Liu, and decides to duel him.
Make use of his Sand spell, one
of them should almost kill her,
while the second surely will
(first one might silence her
too). Her flame explosion attack
can take Liu out in maybe 2
turns, so be careful (could use
Magic Canopy on turn 1 if you
want). Liu will level up near
39.

Luo-Tao comes up after battle to
talk to Mun-Shang. She then
leaves. Report on I Want to See
the Elder for another 100 potch.

Sign up for Something I Want to
Check by Wustum. Chef Wustum
wants to have a chat at the
table with Prince Shams and
Princess Manaril. Prince Shams
tastebuds are shot, and this is
how Wustum knows the Magedom
truly existed. Report on this
awesome quest for Salted Guts,
Roasted Corn, and that is it.

Flush Out the Criminal was next.
Time to find someone smaller
than Yod.

Get Rid of Mislato Monster is
like the Get Rid of Citro
Monster a long while back.

Mislato River

The party appears at Mislato
River. That Mystery Warrior is
back from the past hunt. This
guy finally introduces himself
as Enumclaw. This bird beast has
a ton of HP, and a tough to
penetrate physical and magic
defense. After about 5000 damage
you will take off zero, and the
battle ends. Enumclaw then runs
off.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to where Erin is, then go up
the stairs as you go west. Enter
the room where Manaril is, along
with Shams and Taj. Talk to Taj,
and he's ready to touch the
Chronicle. Taj is recruited. Not
that if you do not go here and
talk to him, you don't recruit
Taj. So make sure you do it.

Had some more quests to report
on. Manaril and Hina nets you
1000 potch, typical pointless
Anya endeavor. Flush Out the
Criminal shows us that Autar had
an empty adhesive bottle, so he
is our prime suspect. Another
1000 potch for this, and yet
another job related to this
quest opens up.

Get Rid of Mislato Monster nets
you a huge prize of 40000 potch
and Darkness Cape.

Sign up for Corner the Sticky
Criminal, and Hero goes to talk
to Autar. Autar claims to know
nothing about it, and after
talking to Moana, you decide
there would have been fur on the
bottle. Hmm, it's someone
smaller than Yod and doesn't
have fur. Must be that rascal
Numnu. Report on this only nets
you 100 potch, but at least you
know now.

Magedom's Two Chronicles is one
sent in by Liu. Of course send
in the El-Qaral crew, namely
Mubal and Manaril but Asad as
well.

Salsabil

Meanwhile, go to Salsabil. Enter
the trade harbor, to see a
Maestro. It seems his music
makes people mad. A guard sees
him, and then he runs off. Talk
to everyone after the commotion,
then exit out. After you've
checked everything out in
Salsabil, Tsaubern should come
out and introduce himself. He is
from the east continent.
Tsaubern is in a hurry so he
leaves, but it's good that we've
talked to him.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back to HQ, and report on
Magedom's Two Chronicles for
1000 potch. They used both
chronicles it seems.

Sign up for The Promised Visit.
Accept the request to meet at
the top of HQ with Tsaubern.
Tsaubern is a representative of
the United Kingdom of
Ritterschild. Tell him it's okay
to touch the Chronicle so he can
figure out what really happened
to the 'other large country
fighting the Order'. Tsaubern
then sees the vision of the
Magedom of Janam. After this
discussion, you recruit
Tsaubern.

Report on the Promised Visit for
10000 potch. Accept One More
Mission, created by Tsaubern.
Evidently, someone from the
Empire of the North Star has
come to our HQ, and he wants to
know why. Someone in your army
is from this area, and you need
to find her. Go to the second
floor, all the way left (where
the Blades of Night's Veil hang
out). You will see Yula, aka
Princess Mayula. Yula claims she
is just a warrior from the
Empire of the North Star.
Tsaubern still thinks it is her,
as the war priestess of General
Daigoh said Mayula left. Report
on One More Mission for 100
potch.

Discordant Countermeasures is a
quest definitely worth doing.
Someone is making a lot of noise
over at Naineneis.

Naineneis

Go to the 'street', to see that
same Maestro. Hero figures out
the music is making everyone
mad, and the Maestro introduces
himself as noble Ramin. He runs
off, to practice music
elsewhere.

Cragbark

Cragbark is Ramin's next stop.
Hero just takes Ramin after
seeing him here. Out in the
field, Pekklar see you. Ramin's
music puts everyone in Fury
status so you can make short
work of these enemies. Ramin has
now joined your party.

Forest Ruins HQ

Lots of requests to report on.
Discordant Countermeasures nets
you 5000 potch. War is an
Offering and Taj's Secret both
reward you with 1000 potch.

Sign up for Let Me Perform!, and
you'll be at the Corridor with
Wahie.

Pharamond

You then appear at Pharamond.
There is another Ramin from
another world playing music that
makes everyone laugh. Meanwhile,
the real Ramin comes up to play
his music. They cancel eachother
out and Hero takes the other
Ramin back to his world. Return
and report on Let Me Perform!
for 100 potch.

Mysterious Desert Ruins

As you enter the desert, Hotupa
comments about how amazing this
really is. Note that you always
enter from the northwest when
you first have the scene with
Hotupa and sensing the
Chronicle. But if you exit, go
to Salsabil, then back to the
desert, you can enter from the
southeast side. This is what you
want to do, so that you can make
a short trip to the Mysterious
Desert Ruins. From the southeast
desert entrance, go north a tad
and then east past the rivers.
You should spot the Ruins soon.

And upon entry to the ruins,
Hero spots someone down. This
odd fellow is having a hard time
wondering why he passed out, or
what he's looking for. His name
is Keflen. After some
convincing, Hero goes with
Keflen to look for this thing in
the Ruins.

Start by heading southeast, and
then east for a Mystic Medicine
(south more is a dead end). Back
to the first split, and go west.
This time, south leads to a
treasure, the Iris Blade. This
is a powerful addition to your
blade arsenal. Then go west and
north for a dead end.Keflen is
still not sure to think, but
Hero offers him a place to stay.
He goes back to HQ with you, but
has not officially joined yet.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back at HQ there was a pointless
request (The Seven Imperial
Generals) to report on for 1000
potch. Keflen is right by the
front entrance, but won't join
officially for a while. Now get
your party set and ready to find
the Chronicle in the desert.

Buried Mage City

Enter the Desert Ruins where the
Magedom of Janam once was. From
the northwest entrance, go east
along the north wall until you
see that north exit (that you
can't take). A tad west and a
good deal south to find the
Magedom ruins.

Hotupa and Luo-Tao are in shock,
and wonder why the building
ruins are still here. More
importantly, Luo-Tao senses the
Chronicle within the ruins. Go
to the Plaza Ruins for a Party
Dress to the west. Nothing at
the Imperial Palace Ruins, but
check out the Arcane Academy
Ruins. The Cellar seems to be in
perfect condition. Go to where
Manaril's room was. Diadora beat
you to it though.

Actually though, Diadora had
this Chronicle for some time.
The Chronicle of Endless Travels
is within her staff. Hotupa puts
away her first Gateway but she
continues to summon them.
Finally, a battle with Diadora
and two Generals Guts. Luo-Tao's
Healing Wave is very nice here.
I had Hotupa attacking with the
Crescent Axe and Hero using
Masterpiece on the frontline and
then Vortex on Diadora. It's
hard to see the amount of damage
you do to Diadora with the
screen rotating just as you hit
her, but she has around 4000 HP
or so. She has a lightning
attack on one character for
120-140 HP and Spear Torrent for
100 or so damage on everyone.
You gain a Moonlight Stone and
Mystic Medicine for victory.

Choose to bring Diadora with
you. Hotupa opens the Gateway
left by Diadora, and you can go
right to Forest Ruins HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

Diadora will be sleeping in bed,
but the Doctor would like Liu to
watch over her to prevent her
from escaping. Report on Find
the Desert Chronicle! for 10000
potch.

Salsabil Royal Palace

Go to Salsabil, and then the
royal palace. This is the first
time that our Ruffian friend
shows up, Misrach. But actually
Misrach is the head of the
Salsabil Self-Defense
Volunteers. Hero wants him to
remember fighting you as the
Salsabil Liberation Army. Hero
takes Misrach to Mislato River
to show him, and gives him a
Chronicle to touch. Misrach
joins your party after this.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the second floor, and east
to the doctor's office. Diadora
complies with you, and hands
over the staff. Hero touches it
and gets a vision of the end of
Diadora's world. The Chronicle
of Endless Travels was the True
Chronicle of her world. After
some talking, Diadora asks if
Hero wants to go to the Gateway
to wait for her. Save, and do
so.

At the Gateway, Diadora says she
can create a Gateway to reach
the Tower of the Way, so that we
can steal the 10th Chronicle.

Cynas - Tower of the Way

Diadora really does take you
through the gateway to the
Tower. The True Chronicle isn't
here like she had expected, but
we should cautiously explore for
it.

You start on the 4th floor.
South of here leads to an east /
west fork. West leads to a lift
that goes down, but we need to
travel up. So take the east
route, and just go straight
north to a new room.

Here, you see Nova, Sophia and
Valfred. Nova gets his butt
kicked, and then Diadora gives
away our position.
Unfortunately, Beardsley and
Dirk run in as well. Too many
enemies here, so Diadora just
uses her ability to teleport
Hero, Liu, Nova, and herself
back to Forest Ruins HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

Nova finally regains
consciousness back at the
castle, and tells that the 10th
Chronicle is carried by Sophia.
Nova wants to go and recover her
from Valfred's grasp, but is too
tired out right now. The party
can no longer use a gateway to
the Tower of the Way, since
Valfred knows Diadora is not on
his side anymore.

Report on To the Tower of the
Way for 10000 potch.

Buried Mage City

Go to the Arcane Academy, and as
you go down the stairs, notice
that the second to the last
staircase has an open door to
your right. Enter it to see
three individuals. One is Miss
Nofret. They're bandits, looting
the undergrounds here. If you
choose the first option you will
fight them, nothing too hard.
Either way, she tells you to
bring a prince and a princess,
so go to Salsabil and put Shams
and Manaril in your lineup. Then
return to Nofret. Nofret
genuinely believes your group.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back at HQ, sign up for Help
Them Dig. Bring strong members -
not sure how strong, but you can
tell whether their response to
the quest is positive or not.
When you go to report on Help
Them Dig, you acquire 10000
potch, Noble Shoe's and Magic
Armband. Also, Nofret tells you
to come visit her with Manaril
and Shams again.

She gives Shams and Manaril some
things from their parents, then
Hero asks for Nofret's help.
Nofret is then recruited.

Save your game, and head to the
fourth floor strategy room to
begin mobilizing towards Cynas.

Forest Ruins HQ

The walkthrough picks up after
returning from the Tower of the
Way with Diadora, and after
recruiting Nofret.

At the fourth floor strategy
room, the group will be talking
about attacking Fort Arc. It has
to happen, so that the True
Chronicle cannot be used to send
the HQ away. Go down to the
first floor by Moana, and you'll
see Hotupa run in saying Atrie
is here. More insight on the One
King, and what may possibly
happen if the One King is not
stopped. Hotupa goes off into
other worlds to find more
information after this.

After this, go up to the fourth
floor strategy room. Liu has
news that the Order has pulled
troops from Grayridge, and just
plan on meeting our army at Fort
Arc. Choose to attack Fort Arc.
Nova is recruited before you
choose parties. There are three
parties - one starting with Hero
and Nova, another with Logan and
Asad, and a final one with
Diulf, Nimni and Chrodechild.
Fill up the rest with your best
warriors.

Fort Arc

As Hero enters, you begin in
battle with a Cynas Captain and
two Cynas Mages. These goons
should provide little resistance
to Hero's party. Diulf, Nimni
and Chrodechild then get to make
short work of the same enemy
Order combo. The team then flips
the lever. Logan and Asad then
have the same group to trounce,
and one more lever to hit.

At the north end, you meet Resno
and Vaslof. Vaslof's magic
defense seems to have improved,
though you should still focus on
drilling him with magic spells.
He has more like 4000-4500 HP in
this battle. Resno is a little
over 3000. Just be sure to focus
all of your efforts on one of
them to make it a 4 on 1 battle,
and get a Defense Canopy up
after turn 1. Your rewards are
Order Armor and Crescent Axe.

Vaslof and Resno touch the False
Chronicle and gain memory of
their fight against Hero at
Ladzaa Fortress. Vaslof and
Resno are amazed, and won't
believe Hero that Valfred did
it.

Further ahead, and Sophia comes
out. She summons four Dust
Minions. You can't really damage
these guys, only 30-70 damage.
Get a Defense Canopy up to
absorb the two front line hits
you take per turn. You cannot
win this battle, and after three
turns it ends. Then, Sophia's
10th Chronicle shows it's true
form. Everyone has to flee.

Forest Ruins HQ

Hero appears in his room at HQ.
Report on Fort Arc Seige for
30000 potch. Rest up, give Nova
some Mark of the Stars
abilities, then put Logan / Liu
in your party.

Woodlands Village

With Liu in your party, go along
the path and talk to everyone.
Liu will talk to Hao-Shi, the
disgruntled scribe. Talk a bit,
until you speak of the Magedom
of Janam disappearing. Not much
else you can do at this point,
but remember Hao-Shi's location.
And remember to always bring Liu
when you go to talk to him.

Grayridge

Go outside the Ch Hall. Enter
the Ch Hall and speak with our
old friend Gilliam from long
ago. He tells of Valfred losing
Grayridge's loyalty after many
losses to your company. After
the talk, ask him to join you.

Forest Ruins HQ

Absolutely positively save your
game right now. Then go talk to
Moana. Defend Grayridge should
be a request up, by Gilliam.
Send three groups of able
fighters to go defend Grayridge
from the sand monsters. You have
to succeed, but many characters
should be able to do the job for
you. Some say you need everyone
over 110 strength but I think
it's higher than that. Try to
aim for 3 groups full of 140+
attack to be sure to pass it.
Report this quest and if you
succeed, you will gain 50000
potch. If you lose, you will
gain 5000 potch and be unable to
recruit Gilliam.

Grayridge

Back to the Grayridge Ch Hall.
Gilliam will thank you for
aiding Grayridge, and you can
then recruit Gilliam. Again, if
you failed, Gilliam will not
join you if you go to talk to
him.

Sign up for That World in the
Ravine. Liu heads this quest,
but fill up his party and come
back in 15 days. Just 100 potch
for a reward.

Forest Ruins HQ

To continue the story after the
botched attack on Fort Arc, go
to where Erin, Logan and Semias
are in the castle. Go left of
Semias to see a scene with
Diadora and Nova. Turns out,
after Nova received a Mark from
the Chronicle of the Sacred Twin
Blades, he blacked out.

Go to the third floor, and the
west wing. Talk to Luvais about
how he is from Ladzaa. Now, new
quests have popped up. Luvais's
Outings and About Fierce
Regalia. To complete Luvais
Outings, just take Hero over to
Mislato River. Take the first
north path, go all the way
north, then follow east and
northeast to Ladzaa Fortress.
Eventually, you come to the
Ladzaa Fortress ruins, and our
friend Luvais is here, just
looking.A nice talk about his
past. Make the haul out of
Mislato now.

Report on Luvais's Outings for
100 potch, and About Fierce
Regalia for 1000 potch.

Now go to the fourth floor
strategy room to talk to Resno
and Vaslof. He wants to go
convince his fellow Auster Folk,
so time to head to Lugenik, city
of Auster Folk. Vaslof and Resno
are recruited. Sounds like in
order to get there, we will have
to go through the desert and up
Mount Svatgol.

Desert of Janam

Just head east and look for that
north route up. You are now
allowed to take it.

Mount Svatgol

Travel north, until you reach an
upside down T. Go west, then
south to see Gorno. If you have
an Auster male with like Vaslof
or Muro, they will recognize
this guy. Gorno is an outcast
from the village because he
opposes the Order, so naturally
once he learns you are fighting
the Order he joins. After
recruiting Gorno, you can take
the west ladder down to
Grayridge Mine (even though on
the map it seems like Grayridge
is much farther away). But be
careful here - you might run
into a Fanged Silkmoth. They
have an absurdly strong attack
all + sleep ability, that can
put you in a dire position real
quick. Please run from this
monster at all costs. Just
follow the path, take the ladder
down in this first area, and
then follow the path northeast
until you reach a fork. North
and east a bit leads to the lift
that takes you to Grayridge.
From here, travel to the
southeast and look for an
eastern path that leads to a
Moonlight Sword. Then go to the
far southeast corner and look to
go west through a slim wall for
Spun Silvr Armr. Go back all the
way north to the lift, then east
to go up some stairs.

Grab the Uncut Emerald west of
you, then west further through a
wall for an Emerald Ring. Back
down that rope, then west to the
lift. From here, travel
southwest to the ladder going
up. Northeast of here to get to
the ladder leading up to Mount
Svatgol. East from where you
recruited Gorno, to get back to
that first fork. Go north this
time, which leads to another
upside down T. Southeast for a
Silver Ore, then the north route
for yet another upside down T.
North is a dead end, so go west
all the way through thet wall
for a Strength Sash, and then
take the north route to exit out
to a new area, outside of the
cave-like part.

Run through this area as it
winds left to right. After
taking the north exit to a new
area, look for an east path as
you go north. This leads back
outside but further south for a
Demon Hammer. Back to where you
veered off to this east route,
and continue on north, but head
the northeast wall as you walk.
You should walk through the wall
for a Mystic Medicine. Just walk
right west back through that
wall, and continue west (you can
ignore the north part, since
that just led to that treasure
you got via the shortcut). Exit
out to the exterior.

Go south, and as the path
splits, travel southeast to
enter the cave. Go right through
the east wall, and work your way
south and southwest for Sterling
Armor. Back west, to the
exterior. Continue on westward,
ignoring the eastern splits.
Back in the caves, you're going
to want to take the south path
at the first fork, which leads
southeast to that treasure you
saw earlier (Roasted Corn).
Return and take the north path
in the caves. If you work your
way northeast (hugging the wall
for a shortcut), you can reach
the yellow crystal signifying
the exit.

But you can also travel
southwest to a new area as well
(you will pass those shining
white borders in this new
place). South is a dead end, but
if you go east and southeast
through a wall, you can see a
treasure. But the controls are a
headache, trying to navigate
through these walls. It might be
a dead end anyway, as you can
head to the northeast, and
follow this route south all the
way to a Diamond. Just go back
west and exit out to the
northwest to that final room.

Again, in the northeast of this
room is the yellow exit. But if
you go northwest and go through
the west wall, you can grab a
Dragon Helm before you leave.

Lugenik

Lugenik is but a day away. It is
a cliff city. Vaslof first says
he wants you to talk to Chief
Kashgar. You can rest at the
Inn, save, and check out the
shops here. Powerful weapons,
armor and accessories that will
be tough to afford, but a few
things may be worth getting. Not
much going on at the street, so
go to the Chief's. The Chief is
not willing to believe our
story, and Kashgar tells you to
leave. Vaslof then tells you
outside about the Auster Folk's
first ancestor Ordovic.

Save your game, then go towards
the Ancestral Altar. Two Oracle
Soldiers stop you, but Vaslof
knows we must press onward. Work
on one of them first, with
Vaslof's Earthspasms 300% damage
attack probably wasting one of
them real quick. This battle
should put you past level 45
once you complete it, then you
can see the huge Altar wherer
Vaslof wants to talk to Ordovic.

Sure enough, after some talking
the Chronicle of Noble Steel
shines and a voice is heard.
Some dust scatters, and Ordovic
appears. Ordovic goes to tell
Chief Kashgar about his
foolishness. Finally, Kashgar is
able to touch the book of Noble
Steel and see the truth. Hard to
believe they wer e so confused
that they were fighting with the
One King and the Order. Kashgar
is recruited after this.

Forest Ruins HQ

With the Auster Folk as allies,
go back to HQ and report on Make
Allies of Auster Folk, for 30000
potch and Hell Fists.

After this, go to the Gateway at
HQ. Hotupa is just getting back
from visiting other worlds,
specifically one where there is
a very sophisticated magical
kingdom, even more so than the
Magedom. They might have an idea
about the One King, but they
would not tell. Rest, save, then
go to the Strategy Room hallway.

In the strategy room, Nimni
tells of an ability he has from
the Cerulean Flux Chronicle.
Nova makes plans for seeing his
daughter Sophia, and your
company starts to get ready for
the Auster Folk's arrival. As
you go to leave the strategy
room, you see a scene in Cynas.

Cynas

Valfred is talking to Dirk. Dirk
is then in a room, gaining power
from the Furious Roar Chronicle.

Forest Ruins HQ

Back at HQ, the Chief of the
Auster's is here. He brought
those oracles you beat up,
Indrik and Diiwica. Have them
touch the Noble Steel Chronicle.
Indrik and Wiiwica are
recruited. Rest, save, and go to
Liu in the strategy room hall to
set forth on Fort Arc once more.

Hero and Nova start out as one
group, and then you have Neira /
Nimni as the second group and
Vaslof / Resno as the third. Put
some magicians with Vaslof /
Resno, and probably one front
line fighter and one magician
with the Porpos-kin. Put two of
your strongest allies with Nova
and Hero. Mission Accepted, and
it is time to go.

Fort Arc

Those Sand Monsters are still
here. Diadora starts by sending
some of these sand monsters away
immediately. Neira and Vaslof
run ahead to trounce the
remaining Sand creatures.

Your first battle is with Neira
and friends. These Dust Minions
love using Silence Sand on you
for about 100 damage. So setting
up a Magic Canopy is a good
start for preventing heavy
damage, especially once the
Auster's get in battle. Physical
attacks don't do much, but Spear
Torrent is very nice against
these two. After three Spear
Torrents (1500 HP or so), these
enemies should be gone.

The Auster Folk is next. Their
physical attacks should do the
trick, especially Vaslof's
Earthspasm. Finally, it is time
for Hero and Nova to run down
main street.

Sophia is still in the form of
that sand monster. Liu comes
from behind to counter Sophia's
power. Time for a battle against
Dust Sophia. Unless you have
Auster's in your party, or Spear
Torrent, it's hard to do damage
to Sophia. Physical attacks are
still worthless, less than 100
damage. So Nova won't be
providing much, and really Hero
can't do much either. Hopefully
you kept those Auster's in your
party, but if not let's hope you
have Spear Torrent to use. If
you rely on weak, 80 HP physical
attacks, this will take a long
time. Sophia likes to use
Silence Sand, and can use
physical attacks on everyone
(long range). Sophia also has an
annoying stun tactic to knock
down all allies at once.

Some scenes, and you appear back
at Forest Ruins HQ.

Forest Ruins HQ

Report on Rescue Sophia! for
40000 potch. Put Tsaubern, Yula
and Savina in your party.

Fort Arc

Go to Fort Arc from Forest Ruins
HQ, and walk through main
street. See those side passages
as you go? Ignore the first
right one, but take the second
east passage. Continue east, and
then up the stairs. Eventually
you see Darrow, and if you
brought Savina, she will call
out to him. Darrow is recruited.
Note that you do not have to
complete the 'Find Darrow'
quest. You can recruit Darrow
anyway.

Make sure Yula and Tsaubern are
in your party.

Lugenik

As you enter, you hear some
strange music. Along the main
street, the crowd is roaring.
Some traveling performers are
here. They seem to look like
Yula. These two head off, saying
they want to go by Cynas to
perform, despite you telling
them not to.

Grayridge

Go outside the Ch Hall. Turns
out these performers went to
Cynas and back, but those in
Cynas didn't find their dances
to be interesting. Such is the
way of life when it is
predetermined. Tell them to help
you, and they introduce
themselves as Yomi and Chihaya.
You then recruit Chihaya and
Yomi, the traveling performers.

Forest Ruins HQ

Lots of small, worthless-type
requests to take care of. Sign
up for North Star Cuisine, and
talk to Wustum. Kind of funny,
kind of awkward. Report on North
Star Cuisine now for a Dragon
Patty and Crab Stew.

Sign up for Oracle Quarrel?!
Hero will go and talk to those
two Auster Folk Oracles that you
fought earlier. Diiwica and
Indrik go and talk to Ordovic
about his past, about dying as a
Starbearer and reviving as one
once more. After this talk,
return back and report on Oracle
Quarrel?! for Hell Fists.

Next, there is another Hero
request called SHOWDOWN!!! It is
sent in by Gorno, who would like
to test his artisan ability with
someone else from another world.
Two identical Gorno's go at it
here. For SHOWDOWN!!! you
acquire Sun Necklace, Moon
Necklace and Venus Ornament.
Definitely worth doing for these
accessories.

To continue on with the story,
go to the physician center (2nd
floor, on the right). Diadora is
here, saying she was about to
find Hero. Sophia wants to talk.
Sophia says the Chancellor
Valfred gave her the Mark of the
True Chronicle. The 10th False
Chronicle is now in your hands -
the Chronicle of Boundless
Amber. Sophia passes out and
can't tell you any more.

Outside of the Physician room,
Marica runs up. Liu is in
trouble. Dirk seems to have
taken the Scribe Chronicle from
Liu. Liu and Dirk go off to the
main street to get some room, so
Hero and Dirk can duel.

Dirk uses his Chronicle to
neutralize your Mark of the
Stars. Dirk's regular attacks do
70 damage, and he'll use his
strike-back counter move on
occasion. Hero takes off 300
each time, but the battle ends
after a few turns. Hero then
summons some strange powers and
can use Mark of the Stars again.
Use Healing Glitter to stay
healed, and then spam Flame
Vortex / Masterpiece for
victory. Dirk will go down after
about 1300-1500 HP, and Hero
goes to level 47 or so. Oh, and
you get Beast Armor.

Something strange is going on
around Cynas. Hotupa, Liu and
Hero try to use the Gateway, but
to no avail. Dirk has the one
Chronicle that Valfred has not
used yet, the Chronicle of the
Tatau Council. Dirk summons the
power from the Furious Roar
Chronicle to stop the Fusion of
the 11th world, and the HQ is
saved. Dirk leaves a skull in
his wake.

Back at the Hall, you talk with
Sophia. Four of the eleven
worlds have been chosen by the
One King. Diadora finds out that
the 11th world really has come
here - without the True
Chronicle, we can only knock the
fusions out of range. Sophia is
recruited, as the party has to
hurry to obtain the 11th World's
Chronicle before the 12th world
can be summoned. Diadora got a
good look at this new place - it
is called Rarohenga. It means
Hell.

You have Sophia in your party,
so give her some Mark of the
Stars abilities. Report on
Showdown with Dirk for a Demon
Spear.Put Liu and Diulf in your
party, along with Hero and
Sophia.

Woodlands Village

Go to the path, and talk to Hao-
Shi. Now that Rarohenga has
appeared, you have some new
dialogue with him. But he still
doesn't join, so head back to
Forest Ruins HQ. Soon, there
should be a quest about cleaning
up the Woodlands Village.

Cragbark

With Diulf in tow, head to
Cragbark. Go to the Town Square,
and talk to Tigre. Diulf tells
him to come join your company.
Tigre is recruited.

Forest Ruins HQ

Talk to Keflen, by the front
entrance. He has been waiting to
talk to Hero. Evidently the
Chronicle of the Boundless Amber
has made him remember some
things, and he wants to go back
to those mysterious ruins.

Mysterious Ruins - Janam Desert

Easier way to get here is to
enter the Janam Desert from the
Magedom Ruins or Salsabil on the
world map. This way, the trip to
the Mysterious Ruins is a
stone's throw away.

Upon entry, go south and take
the west route. At the next
fork, continue west so that the
path leads to that north dead
end. The Chronicle of Boundless
Amber starts to glow. A
mysterious man appears. Keflen
recognizes him as Belemuel, the
spirit of the bearer of the
Tensyo Star. Keflen gains the
confidence to stand up to the
One King, and becomes a
Starbearer. You now recruit
Keflen and recruit Belemuel.

Rarohenga

You fight an enemy as you enter,
one who has about 4000 HP.
Rarohenga actually isn't that
big, just travel north until you
can go west, then wrap around
south and east to a new area.

Valfred is here. He has the 11th
Chronicle with him so that's not
good. You battle him for three
turns, and you do 0 damage to
him on all attacks. Use Magic
Canopy and just defend and stay
healed up. Afterwards, the
Shining Legacy Chronicle that
belongs to Hero starts to shine,
and you can then do damage on
Valfred. This lasts just one
turn though, as Valfred flees to
Cynas to finish up the ritual of
calling the One King.

Enter the Mysterious Ruins in
the previous screen, just north
of this second area. Travel east
then south for a Darkness Stone.
Continue east and go north for
another pair of Hell Fists.
Further east, ignoring the south
path you see, and you'll walk a
long way to a weird light blue
android. It's not working so
we'll leave it for now.

Forest Ruins HQ

Hero tells Moana to assemble the
troops at the Strategy Room.
First though, we need to talk to
Moana. Report on Check Out
Rarohenga for an Iris Axe. Sign
up for Find Someone in
Rarohenga.

Rarohenga

Enter the Mysterious Ruins to
see that Scribe Man by three
strange monsters. Defeat these
Pawns, and then this guy will
introduce himself as Kow-Low. He
was reluctant to leave the
Woodland's Village but he wanted
to save a girl. Take the east
routes until you see the girl,
attacked by two more Pawns.

After the battle, the girl has a
way to chase these Pawns off.
Her name is Rufa. Rufa doesn't
say much, but you recruit Rufa
and recruit Kow-Low after this.

Forest Ruins HQ

Lots of requests to report on.
Find Somebody in Rarohenga nets
you 30000 potch. Rarohenga?
rewards you with 1000 potch.
Correcting our Error gives us
just 10 potch.

Sign up for Get Rid of Woodland
Monster. You remember these
Requests, coming from Citro and
Mislato before. Time to check
out the Noslaw Woods. Sure
enough, Enumclaw is here. He
says these Formless Demons show
up whenever the boundary between
worlds is unstable.

Hero goes with Enumclaw and
comes across a flying demon.
Just wail on it for a few turns
and Enumclaw will interfere and
send the demon away. After this,
Hero talks to Enumclaw. Enumclaw
admits to bearing the Teni Star.
Hero convinces him, and you then
recruit Enumclaw.

Return to HQ and report on Get
Rid of Woodland Monster for
50000 potch and a Death Helm.
Now, sign up for Clean Up the
Woodlands, sent in by a Porpos-
kin.

Noslaw Woods

Upon starting the 'Clean Up the
Woodlands' quest, you appear at
Noslaw Woods. More of those
Pawns to wipe out.

Woodlands Village

Liu and Hero run over to the
Woodlands Village to see the
Pawns haven't made their way
here yet. Hao-Shi talks some
more junk about Liu and the
humans he brought in, but he
ultimately wants to save the
place so he joins as a
companion. Fight a few more Pawn
battles, and the village is
safe. Afterwards, Hao-Shi
continues his bitter ways but
does finally decide to join your
company. You finally recruit
Hao-Shi.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go report on Clean Up the
Woodlands for 50000 potch. Put
Balsam, Yod and Liu in your
party and go out.

Rarohenga - Mysterious Ruins

Enter the Mysterious Ruins of
Rarohenga, and take the east
route that leads all the way to
the northeast and then west and
south to a strange android. With
Balsam and Yod, they realize
this thing is just like Yod. It
seems to have been constructed
just for battle against the One
King. We will call this android
Zayin. Hero asks Zayin to join,
and Zayin is then recruited.

Okay, there should be a mission
A Monster Like Zayin that is
available to you. Sign up for
the quest and you'll end up at
the Wilds of Veile. Take the
second northeast path to the
next screen, then continue
northeast to see it. Evidently
this is Prototype Version 12,
code name Lamade. This thing is
programmed to kill the One King
but unfortunately it is
programmed to think any human is
the One King. You have to
destroy it, but it isn't as hard
as it sounds. Sleep Frost can
really cripple this guy - he
only pulled off an 80 damage
drain attack on turn one. He
does have well over 5000 HP
though, so the battle may take a
bit. Return back and report on A
Monster Like Zayin? for a Giant
God Fist

Fort Arc

Stop by Fort Arc as you return
from Rarohenga. Actually though,
enter Fort Arc from the north or
south so you can easily walk
through and see Mun-Tsang.
Assuming you were following
earlier and met her at Giney
Valley, she will join here if
you have Liu in your party. Mun-
Tsang is then recruited, which
makes 108 Starbearers just like
any other Suikoden.

Of the 108 Starbearers, 93 of
them can be used in battle. Try
to pick out about 12-16 that you
like and level them up around
the Rarohenga Mysterious Ruins
until they reach level 50-52.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the strategy room, and
everyone surmises that it will
take the Chancellor a while to
use the 11th Chronicle, since it
has always been a while for him
to summon a new world after he
gets a new chronicle. Everyone
begins to get ready for the
seige on Cynas, but take the
Hero over to the gateway.

Here, you will see Atrie. He too
is getting ready to take down
the enemies trying to go to the
One King's world. Atrie mentions
that the Hero you and Atrie have
seen in the Chronicle visions
actually had a son, who was lost
in a gateway portal. Hmm.

Head to the third floor and go
right to the Chronicle area.
Talk to Mubal about one of the
Chronicles lighting up while we
were in Rarohenga. Next, check
out the Tablet Room to see
Diulf, Diadora, Ordovic and
Zenoa talking about how to
defeat the One King (since
they've all been a part of an
effort to stop the One King in
previous worlds).

At this point, talking to Liu in
the strategy room starts the
siege and is the point of no
return if you wish to do jobs,
grind, recruits, etc. So make
sure you save and recruit
everyone by this point.

Cynas

You see Valfred at the top of
the Tower of the Way.

Forest Ruins HQ

Marica visits Hero in his room.
Time to go to the Strategy Hall
to decide who is going to be in
your final army. Hero and Liu
are in one party, then there are
three more parties with just the
leaders (Asad, Chrodechild and
Diulf).

Cynas

The party is greeted by some
crazy townspeople. Then, two
Akephaloi's appear. The
villagers tell them to attack
you and then you're in a battle.
After you take these monsters
out, the villagers run on. You
should too.

But who decides to show up,
Macoute of all people. He seems
out of his mind, and after some
talking he just turns into Angel
Macoute. He surprised me and
used a sleep attack on round 1
on everyone, not cool. Macoute
tends to use regular attacks
more often though, so as long as
you stay healed he should not be
a problem. Macoute does have a
ton of HP and is strong against
magic, but you can maul your way
through Angel Macoute. With
Diadora you can use Gate to
Nowhere for an instant kill
occassionally.

The party runs forward towards
the Tower of the Way and sees
Diulf, who passed by some
citizens himself. You can rest,
but then just go into the Tower
of the Way.

Go west to enter 1F. Continue
west to get an automatic scene
with some Order fellows, and a
'servant'. Take out the Horn
Guts, which has a lot of HP, and
the back row won't be able to
hold up past a round. If you go
west, you have an exit to the
exterior which leads to nothing.
So continue north and the scene
will fade to Asad and his group.
Two Dullahan's are in the way.
They have close to 4000 HP but
have a terrible defense like
many recent enemies have had.
This time physical attacks and
magic take off quite a bit,
while Dullahan generally uses
regular attacks for ~150 damage.
Not a very hard battle, and Asad
pulls the activation switch to
open the first elevator.

You are now on the 2nd floor. Go
east all the way for an unusual
enemy, a One-King Pawn. Further
east and the Hero will be by the
lift. This time, you have
Chrodechild in the area to cut
down the path that leads to the
lever. You have to fight two
Rooks. These guys have like 1500
HP, so don't be distracted by
the 'boss' theme - they aren't
anything like that.

Hero makes his way to the third
floor. Skip the first south
path, and take the next one. You
will see Beardsley ahead. He too
has given his soul to Valfred
and turned into Angel Beardsley.
But, he has the same terrible
defense that Angel Macoute had.
You should have no problem doing
1000 damage with powerful
physical attack marks, and
Beardsley only has 5000-6000 HP
so he won't last long. Angel
Beardsley just used physical
attacks - the good part is, even
at level 53-55 you will gain
decent EXP.

Just run north and you'll get
near the lift - now it is time
for Diulf to fight a Fallen
Angel. For some reason, Fallen
Angel did not even act in the 3
turns that it was alive. It has
a decent physical defense, but
Sophia was made alert and her
Bind Lightning took off over
1700. A Death Skull and Darkness
Stone are your rewards. Another
lift activated.

Now, we are on the fourth floor.
East is a dead end, so go south
a long way until you can go
east. That first north path is a
dead end, so continue east and
then back north. Continuing
north leads to the room you
always saw Valfred in during the
Cynas scenes, but it is empty.
Go back to that intersection and
go east this time, and you'll be
in this newer area with a really
nice view.

Valfred is going to buy some
time so the 12th world can come.
Two Dullahans come your way.
Just use this battle to make
sure you are healed up,
especially if you didn't before
you walked in this area. Old
Valfred is up next, and he has a
set of Gigas Arms fighting with
him in the back row. Not sure
about this set up, with Valfred
taking the front lines and
getting mauled by Hero and
friends. His HP is in the 5500
neighborhood, but for some
reason he just used physical
attacks, along with the Gigas
Arms. Put up both Canopy's
incase Valfred decides to use
magic. Even after Valfred is
defeated, the battle does not
end. The Gigas Arms will also
use a weird poison-like attack
for 80 or so. You are rewarded
with a Demon Hammer, Revival
Statue and Old Vestments.

Unfortunately, it is too late.
The One King has been summoned.
Hero runs right at him and it's
time to fight. Your party HP /
MP is restored thankfully, but
this battle is not for the weak
at heart. You take off 0 damage
to this strange being. After
three turns, the battle ends
(Tierkreis couldn't end the game
without one more no-damage-
for-3-turns gimmick battle). The
Chronicle of Shining Legacy
shines, and another battle
starts. This time you can do 1
damage to the One King.

Citro Village

Hero wakes up at Citro. Go to
the Town Square, talk to
everyone, then go east to talk
to your main party. You will
have to repeat this day three
times, and then the fourth day,
choose 'it's the same thing'.

Forest Ruins HQ Hero goes to the
HQ. Liu, Jale and Marica follow
him. After you go to the
Strategy Room, everyone else
comes back too. Time to go out
and figure out what happened
with the One King. You can head
to Citro first or just go to
Cynas. Diadora gives you the
Rarohenga Chronicle, the
Chronicle of Resonant Horror.

Nothing much at Citro Village
really. So just head to Cynas.

Cynas

Cynas looks crazy, with huge
green lights heading into the
sky. Go back to HQ to report on
the condition of Cynas.

Forest Ruins HQ Also you can
report on Cynas Siege for 30000
Potch and Check Things Out for
10000 potch. Save, and go to the
strategy room.

Time for your big decision. Do
you want to go with the only
strategy you know to work?
Everyone seems willing. If you
choose yes, you get Game Over.
So choose no.

After splitting out, it turns
out Mubal and Manaril have some
information at the second floor
Chronicle area. Turns out if you
have all 12 Chronicles you may
be able to damage the One King.
You have 11 Chronicles but the
last one is by 'Other Cynas',
the ruin-like interpretation of
Cynas.

Other Cynas

Just run left to a new area.
Travel east but stick to the
north to find a Death Helm.
Northeast to continue to a new
area, then north to another.

Go east and southeast in this
new place. Eventually you will
have to go west and you can see
a treasure to the south as you
go - it is a Soul Reaper, a
powerful weapon. Further west
for the exit.

As you go north in this area,
look west for a Crimson Cape.
Continue north to the next area,
rest up, and continue north.
Eventually you reach the area
where the 12th Chronicle is, but
a battle looms against a Queen.
Queen has a laser attack on the
front line for about 150-250
damage per character. However
spells and regular attacks do a
number on the Queen. She does
have close to 8000-9000 HP
though, easily one of the
biggest counts you've faced so
far if not the biggest. You gain
an Uncut Diamond and Goddess
Breath. Watch the remaining
parts of the Chronicle visions.

Forest Ruins HQ

Go to the Gateway area to tell
Hotupa to spread the news about
the 12 Chronicles. Rest, save,
and go to the Strategy Room. You
have the choice to go on ahead
with everyone to take on the One
King. You can take some time to
go through the castle and speak
with everyone. When you are
ready, rest at your room and
then the following day it is
time to get all the teams ready
to take out the pillars and
storm the One King's tower. Note
that with the new Chronicle you
have more abilities - make sure
the Hero has Two-Way-Thrust and
Ire. This combination is deadly.

Cynas

Negating all of the barriers
caused a giant statue of the One
King to appear in place of the
Tower of the Way. Don't worry
about being stuck with Jale and
Marica, you can switch them out
momentarily when Moana comes by.
Make sure you have at least one
magician (goes without saying)
but try to get someone with
Magic Canopy and Healing Tide
(the most powerful heal-all
mark). Magic Canopy will need to
be used right away. For the
record, I'm bringing Liu,
Diadora and Ordovic. Many
combinations will work, but the
main boss is much harder than
what you've seen so far in
Tierkreis. Save and head to the
Stat of the One Kng.

Hero sees Valfred's perpetual
day, and Valfred of course does
not want to give this up. He
condemns Hero and then you begin
a battle against Death Valfred.
Start the battle off by using
Ire on Hero (and I did this with
Ordovic too). Liu and Diadora
put up a Magic and Defense
Canopy respectively, and then
you can just tear into Valfred.
Death Valfred didn't act in turn
one so you have a turn to put up
buffs. Hero using Two-Way-Thrust
(300% damage plus negligible
damage to Hero) did about 4400
damage. Use your best spells and
physical marks with your
remaining characters, and Death
Valfred won't be able to last
past two runs. Valfred just used
a physical attack for 100 damage
(200 without a shield). Death
Valfred drops the Robe of Death
and the Beast King Swrd. Beast
King Swrd is very powerful and
provides a huge boost to your
other stats, but it's hard
sacrificing the total attack
power you get from wielding two
elite one handed weapons (God-
Beast Sword and Giant God Fist).

One King Statue

Hero makes a speech and then you
regain control. Exit out and
save or change your party if you
want.

On the first floor, take the
west path for Ultimate Fists.
Then continue east and north to
a split. Take the first north
path you come to for a Gungnir
Lance. The second north path
quickly takes you south until
you reach two more paths. Take
the western one, as it leads a
long ways to another Goddess
Breath Rod.

The initial south path takes you
to a new area, and another
intersection as you go north.
Take the northwest route for a
staircase down to a Totem Pole.
Powerful weapon but it requires
both hands unfortunately.

Return back down and take the
right path to a strange area,
one that has the Mark of the
Stars tablet and looks like a
dark version of your HQ. The
Tablet of Promise here only has
1 star left, the Tenkai star.
Grab the Star Armor and save.
Star Armor is a great deal
better in three stats compared
to the Warrior Armor I had on
Hero up to this point.

On the fourth floor, continue
west and north until you reach
two paths leading south. Take
the western one and follow the
long route to a Hero's Cape.
Return back and take that first
south path that you skipped. It
goes to a staircase.

Sixth floor now. Make your way
to the east side of the room,
and as you go north look for a
west route that leads to the 5th
floor and set of Hero's Armor.
Back to the sixth floor, then
take that northeastern route to
another staircase going back to
the fifth floor.

Take the southeast path here to
the fourth floor. Continue to
the third floor and then you
will find the Master's Gloves.
These are great for accuracy.
Okay, return to the fifth floor
and go north for a Goddess
Raiment. Follow the path north
and to the sixth floor, and
follow that path until you see a
west exit to take. Rest up as
you go through this side area.
Ahead comes the One King.

Hero uses the Chronicles, and
then a battle begins against the
One King. Start off by using
Defense Canopy and Magic Canopy,
hopefully both on turn 1. The
other two characters I had use
Ire to get in Fury Status. Two-
Way-Strike and Thrust your way
through the One King. He won't
last more than a few turns, and
he uses a physical attack for
150+ damage each turn. You will
level up to 59 or so after the
fight.

But there is another fight with
the One King. Definitely get up
your Magic and Defense Canopy on
turn one. This One King will use
an avalanche attack for 120 to
150 damage with the Magic
barrier up. One King also has a
blue laser attack that goes
through two allies for 120-150
damage.

You will need at least one
person using Healing Tide almost
every turn. This really isn't
too dangerous though so long as
your Canopy's are up and you
have Healing Tide accessible.
Use Ire and then your best
physical marks and this boss
shouldn't last much more than 3
or 4 turns. After turn 3, it
might be wise to replenish your
MP.

Because immediately after you
fight the One King's third form.
Have your physical mark users
get Ire up, and of course Magic
Canopy and Defense Canopy. At
this point your MP might be
exhausted especially Hero with
his Two Way Thrusts at 90 MP a
pop. This is why I like Ordovic,
who can take off 200% damage
while using 30 MP each time -
and he has over 500 MP. So,
after the Canopy's are up, have
one character use Healing Tide
(Liu) and then the other
(Diadora) can replenish MP
counts and attack or heal if
needed.

One King will put up a barrier
of sorts on turn one, really
reducing the damage you are able
to do. On turn two One King
probably will use the crystally-
blue attack on everyone for
around 200 to each person,
assuming you have a Canopy up.
Definitely will want Healing
Tide after that. One King Third
Form also uses a physical attack
on two party members, about
110-150 damage with a barrier
up. The dangerous part about the
One King is his agility is high
so he often goes ahead of you,
plus he may catch you while you
are reloading your MP (hopefully
not). Liu was a bit slower so it
made healing a risk - Hero is
generally fast so he can be an
emergency healer at times. You
will find yourself scrambling
through your Mystic Medicines,
but there is no reason to hold
back on your MP replenishing
items, this is it.

Enjoy the ending and the extra
scene with Atrie if you
collected all 108 Starbearers.

--------------------------------
D) Recruit 108 Starbearers
--------------------------------
There are 108 Starbearers in
Suikoden Tierkreis just as there
are 108 Stars of Destiny in the
other Suikoden's. There are some
things to be aware of with many
of the optional recruits, so if
you want all 108 and the best
ending, pay attention and make
sure you don't miss out on
anyone.

The 108 Starbearers will be
listed as they are available in
the game.

1. Hero - Automatic recruit.

2. Marica - Automatic recruit.
   Joins at Citro Village

3. Jale - Automatic recruit.
   Joins at Citro Village

4. Liu - Automatic recruit.
   Joins at Citro Village

5. Hotupa - Automatic recruit.
   Wanderer who joins at Forest
   Ruins

6. Moana - Automatic recruit.
   Wanderer who joins at Forest
   Ruins

7. Logan - Automatic recruit at
   Grayridge.

8. Erin - Automatic recruit,
   Logan's daughter who acts as
   spy under Macoute.

9. Mubal - Joins Company upon
   entering the Magedom and
   stays to learn about the
power of Chronicles.

10. Zahra - Doctor found at the
    Magedom who joins to treat
    Cougar.

11 Eunice - Nurse for Zahra, who
also joins your company after
treating Cougar.

12. Wahie - Joins after you get
    Cougar. Hotupa will attempt
    to send Cougar to
his own world, but he is unable
to go. Wahie comes out and tells
you some Gateway advice, and
joins after this. You can go to
him to do your Nintendo Wi-Fi
stuff.

13. Sisuca - With 10 characters
    recruited, head out via the
    front exit of
your HQ and Sisuca will show up.
She'll say 'wow, you have 10
characters' and head out. Later,
return to Citro Village and go
to the Elder's House. Have her
get ready to go to your HQ, and
she will join you there.

14. Anya - After returning from
    the Magedom of Janam, put
    Erin in your party
and go to Grayridge. Check out
the mine and go northeast to see
Anya. With Erin in your party,
you can recruit Anya. Note that
earlier as you leave Grayridge
you can get extra dialogue with
Anya if you have Erin in your
party, but it is not required
for Anya's recruitment.

15. Selen - Selen is Jale's mom.
    During the 'blooming flower'
    season, Selen
will show up if you enter the
Forest Ruins HQ from the front
entrance. The first time Selen
shows up, you are likely level
16 or so and Selen will not even
bother to battle you. Selen
seems to show up every other
blooming flower season, and the
next time you meet her you
should be about level 20 or 21
with Jale. With some luck, you
can take her down. But if she
knocks you down with her Shrike
move, you're in trouble. Even
still you'll be burning through
Mega Medicines trying to
survive. Two-Way Strike
obviously will do the bulk of
the damage but it requires Jale
to be almost full HP to survive
the turn. Hope that Selen wastes
turns blocking. If you still
have trouble with her, return to
fight her after the Coastal Cave
- if you bring Jale along for
that he will be about level 25,
making the battle much easier.
Once you beat Selen, she joins
your army.

Recruitment note : After
returning from the Magedom of
Janam, visit Grayridge Ch Hall
to get a scene with Luvais
warning you. This is an
important event for a recruit
later on.

16. Tongatihi - Once you return
    from the Magedom and have
    access to the
Corridor area, head there and
travel east to a new screen.
Once you see a young wanderer,
talk to him and his name is
Tongatihi. Return to Moana and
sign up for Window Information.
It is a request from Tongatihi
and you can send whoever,
because it is bound to fail.
After reporting on this quest, a
new quest should open up called
Windows Beyond the Gateway -
this too will be a failure so
don't worry. After reporting on
Windows Beyond the Gateway just
go to the Corridor and talk to
Tongatihi. Ask him to make
Windows for you, and Tongatihi
will decide to join. Talk to him
in the castle to change the
color scheme of your Windows.

17. Gadburg - Blacksmith for the
    Blades of Night's Veil.
    Chrodechild decides to
station Gadburg at Hero's Forest
Ruins HQ so the Mage Lord can't
steal his services. Gadburg can
use the Spark command (appears
below 'run' in the main battle
command menu). Spark instantly
kills enemies lower in level
than you but you don't gain
items after battle that you
otherwise would have. Gadburg
also sells you some nice weapons
/ armor, and gets more options
as you trade more goods
throughout the game.

18. Muro - After you go through
    Giney Valley and Tehah
    Village, return back to
your HQ. There should be a new
request, Demon Hunting in Gineh.
Go to Giney Valley, specifically
the west end. Because in this
west-most area, just go straight
south and west when you can. You
should see some Wanderers
running out. Enter the southwest
area by the waterfall to see
Muro, an Auster Folk. If you
don't see him, exit the area,
run back east, and then you
should see the scene with the
Wanderers running (and Muro
should have appeared in the
southwest waterfall area of
Giney Valley). Muro is a useful
recruit because he allows you to
get Gorno earlier in the game.

19. Luvais - Luvais was
    mentioned a bit above, but
    you can recruit him after
visiting Tehah Village for the
first time. As stated above, you
will see Luvais at Fort Arc,
Mislato River, and then an
optional scene at Grayridge CH
Hall. Many people miss Luvais
here. If you have met him there,
Luvais will then show up after
you finish checking out Tehah
Village for the first time.
Return to your HQ and Luvais
should show up as you enter from
the front. Luvais tells you the
Order is on there way. You will
have to repel a weak effort from
some Cynas Conscripts and the
Captain. After this, Luvais will
join your army.

20. Nimni - Joins you initially
    as you enter the Coastal
    Cave to retrieve the
Porpos-kin beads. After you
return, Nimni joins with Niera
as the main rep of the Porpos-
kin at your HQ.

21. Neira - Priestess Neira
    joins after you find the Bds
    of Priestss. She takes
a while to come to your HQ but
is a very worthwhile member as a
magician in battle.

22. Nemne - Pink Porpos-kin who
    joins with Nimni.

23. Nomno - Dark skinned,
    sleepy-head Porpos who also
    joins with Nimni.

Note that Nomno does not
officially join until after the
Blades join and HQ expands.
Nomno will be tired from the
battle and sleeping in the west
area of 1F. Check Nomno out,
then go to the third floor west
side room to find the Porpos-
kin, and chat with Nemne. She
says Nomno is just exhausted.
Also in Nomno's sleeping area is
the cook Wustum (who we will
have recruited by this point).
Talk to Wustum and a scene
happens with Nomno - he just
needed some food. Nomno is then
officially recruited.

24. Wustum - Upon returning from
    the Coastal Cave / Naineneis
    storyline
sequence, check out Tehah
Village Inn during Sprout
season. It is said this dialogue
can be accessed even outside of
Sprout season - but anyway, talk
to the Innkeeper (far left
behind the counter) and you will
have an opportunity to test some
soup.

Assuming your leader quests are
clear, head back to HQ and sign
up for Find the Chef from
Shairah. Asad cannot be in your
party, if you are doing this
later. Go to El-Qaral Imperial
Plaza to talk to Asad. After
this conversation, head back to
Tehah Village and talk to that
Innkeeper. She says Wustum went
to the mountain. Sure enough, go
towards the peak of the Ch'olui
Mountains to see some Janam
mages encounter Wustum. Wustum
beats them down with his bare
fists. You will end up 'failing'
the quest, but this is good
since it means you recruit
Wustum.

Wustum can be missed if you do
not recruit him by the time the
desert is here.

25. Semias - You meet this
    gambler at the Grayride
    Mine, where he makes a bet
that he will see you again some
time. After you finish the 'Make
Allies of the Porpos' request,
you can go to Naineneis and find
Semias. He is the peculiar
looking red-clad guy as you
enter the Inn. He says he's
going off to make the biggest
bet he has ever made. Return to
your HQ, and go west of Erin and
Logan on 1F and you will see
Semias. Talk to him to recruit
him.

- WHEN HQ UPGRADES
Recruitment note : Now that HQ
is upgraded and Neira is at your
HQ, Namna will visit Neira on
the third floor west room every
bud season. Absolutely make sure
to stop by and talk to Namna,
because Namna will leave but you
still need this dialogue to
recruit Namna a bit later. Namna
is often missed so do not
forget.

26. Chrodechild - After serving
    the Magedom, joins
    automatically.

27. Meruvis - Another Blade of
    Knight's Veil who joins with
    Chrodechild.

28. Roberto - Blade of Knight's
    Veil who joins with
    Chrodechild.

29. Manaril - Automatically
    recruited after saving her
    at the Arcane Academy.
Bring Manaril to the 2nd floor
Chronicle room and Mubal
officially joins also.

30. Asad - After serving the
    Magedom, Asad joins your
    company automatically.

31. Zenoa - Once our HQ expands,
    leave and enter and go to
    the basement floor
(easier to reach from the back
entrance). Zenoa is down here
and joins with the Tablet of the
Starbearers.

32. Yadima - As HQ expands,
    check out the western
    exterior. Past the dock
    where
Anya is, you will find Yadima
and his fields. One pre-
requisite to seeing Yadima here
is to visit him at his hamlet
southeast of Citro Village, on
the plains. If you talked to him
there, you will find him at the
fields at HQ. After talking to
Yadima, go to Moana and sign up
for Plowin' The Field. Send your
strongest characters with the
highest attack, like Jale,
Selen, Muro, Asad, etc. After
you succeed you will want to go
talk to Yadima and you will then
recruit him.

33. Rekareka - The mother
    wanderer who you see at
    Naineneis as you initially
enter. After you make allies of
the Porpos-kin, return to
Naineneis Trade Shop to see that
pair again. The mother is
Rekareka and the son Tuhululu.
If you have done this you will
see a Make My Son a Man request
after the HQ expands. Sign up
for the request, and go towards
the 'Inn' type area on floor 1
of the HQ - just west past
Semias. Anya normally would be
found on the right side of this
room, but now you see Tuhululu
and Rekareka. Rekareka informs
you on the quest she put up. So,
go report on that quest now that
you have the information and
another quest should show up - I
Need Laggart Pelts. Not sure who
to send but I figured Hotupa is
a good start. Once you succeed
at I Need Laggart Pelts, you can
report for 30000 potch, Rainbow
Thread, Rainbow Cloth and Silk
Cloth. Also, Tuhululu and
Rekareka will officially join
your company after this.

34. Tuhululu - See Rekareka
    above.

35. Geschutz - Optional,
    missable recruit from
    Ritterchild. The first
    request
from him is after you do the 2nd
Empress Consort's mission and
have checked out the Arcane
Academy. Geschutz and his
friends pose as 'students' from
Ritterschild, but really want to
get their hands on a Chronicle.
After this first meeting, you
don't hear back from them until
after your HQ expands and Asad,
Chrodechild, etc join your
Company. A new 'Special
Proposal' appears from Geschutz,
so accept and go meet him again
at Mislato River. Geschutz has
been instructed to join your
company in the fight against the
Order.

36. Buchse - Recruited with
    Geschutz.

37. Minen - Recruited with
    Geschutz.

38. Sotah - Wise sage of Tehah
    Village. If you speak to him
    as you enter and
check out his Encyclopedia three
or four times, you can ask him
to join but he won't join your
company quite yet. Come back
after your HQ has expanded and
ask Sotah to join and he will.
He adds to your EXP gained if a
support member and has plenty of
knowledge for you.

39. Balsam - You first meet
    Balsam and Yod early on at
    the Grayridge Mine. It
is not until later when your HQ
expands that you can go talk to
Balsam and ask him to look at
the elevator. Back at your
Forest Ruins HQ, Yod and Balsam
will check out your elevator but
determine that they need a pump
and will have to take it from
Yod. If you remember though from
Naineneis, that treasure chest
at the Trade Shop had a pump. Go
to Naineneis, and tell the Trade
Shop owner that the original
owner of the pump needs it back
- he gladly gives it to you.
Return to Balsam and Yod at your
HQ and they will get the
Elevator going and both will
then join your army (note that
it takes 10 days for the
elevator to be finished).

40. Yod - Recruited with Balsam,
    read above.

41. Khemia - Go to Citro Village
    with the Ritterschild trio
    (Geschutz, Buchse,
and Minen). Khemia seems to have
created a decent gun, not
perfect but it has potential.
Khemia then joins to work
further on guns for your
company. Also there will be new
guns available from your weapon
shop at HQ after recruiting
Khemia.

42. Nuzhat - Bring Mubal to
    Salsabil after HQ expands
    and after you have the
lift working. Enter the
'Residence' to see that strange
woman you saw earlier at the
Magedom. This is Nuzhat. She
gladly joins and turns the
cellar into that same dreambeast
room that the Arcane Academy
had. You can test it out but you
will find the EXP yielded here
is quite weak. Still, Nuzhat is
recruited and has value in being
able to increase magic damage in
battle as a support member.

43. Icas - You first meet him at
    Cynas, flirting with girls.
    Icas then comes up
after you visit Salsabil for the
3rd Empress Consort. After this,
there is a request at Forest
Ruins HQ detailed 'Find
Somebody'. Go to the Inn at
Salsabil to meet Morrin and
Yovel. They are looking for
Icas, but he will be hard to
find. It is not until a bit
later when HQ expands and some
new young females join that you
can recruit Icas. You need
'young females', Selen does not
count for example. Marica,
Sisuca, Erin, Manaril,
Chrodechild and Minen are good
choices though. So basically,
right after HQ expands and you
recruit the latter three. Sent a
full group of these females and
you will find Icas. Another
quest will appear labeled Bring
Icas to Me. The Hero has to
personally bring Icas to
Salsabil. Tell Icas he can join
and he will be recruited. Turns
out as you go to leave, Morrin
is already at HQ with Yovel. As
you are out here with those
three, an Assassin comes by for
Icas. Fend him off (he has about
1000 HP), and he will flee.
Yovel and Morrin are now
recruited as well.

44. Morrin - Recruited with Icas
    above.

45. Yovel - Comes with Morrin.

46. Numnu - Rascal Porpos-kin
    who you first meet at the
    Entryway of Naineneis,
after you return with the
Cerulean Flux. Later on you will
see an 'Order Attacks Naineneis'
request where you will meet the
Lonomakua Pirates, and shortly
after you will see a 'Porpos
abducted' request. The villagers
are quiet about it but know that
the Porpos is at the Coastal
Cave. You have to work your way
to the back (all the way north
and then the middle spring).
Within you will see that Numnu
is the abducted Porpos and went
willingly. You will fight the
Dromon Pirates, a tough yet
rewarding battle, and then Numnu
will be back at HQ being scolded
by the Sea Goddess Ninulneda.
Numnu is recruited.

47. Dromon - Dromon is the
    leader of the Lonomakua
    Pirates and you will see
some scenes with him before you
get a chance to recruit him.
First, you meet him after 'Order
attack on Naineneis' and then
again after the Porpos-kin faux
abduction (you fight him and his
friends after the latter
request).

After this, return to the
Coastal Cave. At the middle
spring that you take, this time
it sends you to a third floor.
Grab some treasures here like
the Godspeed Talisman and the
Lazuli Spear, then drop down the
hole to level two. You can
travel to the back of the cave
to find the Lonomakua Pirates.
You will chat with them and they
wonder why they haven't built a
hideout after all this time. The
Porpos-kin then go search
Lonomakua to see if anything has
changed. Nimni says that a chunk
of the Lonomakua Chain Islands
disappeared, and then the party
appears back at the end of the
Coastal Cave. Dromon, Xebec, and
Felecca have the vision too, but
Dromon wishes to fight you first
before joining. The battle is
the same - hopefully you brought
new characters to level up to
31-33, but they must be
formidable because the battle is
still difficult. Defense Canopy
helps a lot as usual. Dromon,
Xebec, and Felecca are recruited
after this.

48. Felecca - Joins with Dromon.

49. Xebec - Joins with Dromon.

50. Nhazu - Nhazu is first
    encountered at Tehah Village
    and through the
Ch'olui Mountains. After the HQ
upgrades and the west half of
the mountain disappears, go to
Tehah Village to see Nhazu
talking junk about Dogha. But
agree to take him up to see
Dogha's hut. Even Dogha has
nothing but bad things to say
about himself. He has lost his
identity without the mountain.
Return back to your
Headquarters.

A new quest will be up, Search
for Nhazu! Sign up and you'll be
at Tehah Village to learn the
details. Speak with the
townspeople who think Nhazu is
up at the mountain. You will
then appear at Dogha's hut, who
you should talk to and he
eventually gets a lead. Go east
of his hut for a ledge which can
be used with a rope. Follow the
path to see Nhazu in the corner.
Talk to him and Dogha and Nhazu
will start to remember their
past a bit.

Back at Tehah Village you will
talk some more, and then head
back to Headquarters. Nhazu will
beat you to HQ and join.

51. Dogha - Comes to HQ with
    Nhazu after the above
    events, but you have to
talk to Dogha, exit, enter HQ
and talk to him again to recruit
Dogha.

52. Sphiel - The Snow Fairy. She
    can be recruited after
    getting Dogha. Sign up
for Get Rid of the Snow Fairy,
and do not put Dogha in your
party. Go to Ch'olui Mountains,
towards Dogha's house. Go
northwest of his house to see
the Snow Fairy. The Snow Fairy
will not be here if you have
Dogha. Anyway, she battles you
with tough snow magic. Retreat
to your base and talk to Dogha.
He says to tell her you are
full. Return, tell her you are
full, and she is recruited.

53. Maybelle - While you are at
    the Ch'olui Mountains
    getting Sphiel, you
might want to head towards the
peak and look for a north route
that leads to a huge statue.
This girl here knows about a
fight 1000 years ago and this
Maybelle was the lover of
Ru'ukahthis. Hero runs away at
this point.

At HQ, Find my Fated Lover will
be available. Sign up and
Maybelle comes out to profess
her love for Hero. Report on the
quest for some potch, and head
towards Hero's room. Once
inside, Jale will have to come
in and take Maybelle away. Now
put Marica in your party (or any
young girl) and leave HQ.
Maybelle will come by and say
something. Say 'that's it, I
can't take it anymore' and the
scene will turn to Hero and
Maybelle in his room. Have her
touch the book and have the
vision - she is finally
recruited.

54. Nakil - A tricky recruit. It
    is important to be active
    using Asad after
your HQ expands. Eventually as
you enter through the front
entrance, Asad will say he has
to go off. After a short while
(it took 15 days / passed a
season for me) Asad will come
back with Nakil. This is all you
need to do to recruit Nakil.

55. Hafin - After Asad returns
    from saving Nakil, head to
    the Mislato River
with Asad in your party and you
will see a scene with Hafin. He
has deserted the Magedom to join
your company with Asad and
Nakil. Hafin is then recruited.
Note that these two recruits can
be switched in order, but they
both must be finished by the
time the desert is here.

56. Diulf - Joins automatically
    after defending Cragbark
    from the Order.

57. Servillah - Joins
    automatically after
    defending Cragbark from the
    Order.

58. Lycia - Joins automatically
    after defending Cragbark
    from the Order.

59. Gorno - Recruiting Gorno at
    this point is very risky
    proposition and maybe
not worth the effort. Gorno is
at Mt. Svatgol, and you won't
head here for a long time in the
game. But after the HQ expands
and you recruit Muro and Balsam,
you can begin to make your way
to Gorno.

Go to the Grayridge Mine with
Muro and two other quality
members. Even in the lower 30's,
your party will struggle here
especially with the Fanged
Silkmoths. They can do a sleep-
all attack on everyone in your
party, one of the few really
deadly enemies in the game. Take
the 'lift' to the 'lowest
floor'. This is only recently
accessible to you, and it is
where all the tough enemies are.
It's a long walk but you will
eventually come to Mt Svatgol,
along the way in the mine you
will find a Moonlight Sword,
Uncut Emerald, Emerald Ring, and
a Spun Silvr Armr. This is
another reason for the trip.
Once you get to Mt. Svatgol, go
east but look for a south path
to find Gorno. With Muro in your
party, he will be recruited. You
have to walk all the way out.
Gorno is a support character who
raises physical attacks and will
sell accessories at the HQ.

60. Chein - This is a tricky
    recruit if you don't know
    where to look. You have
to put Lycia in your party, and
go to Cragbark. Travel directly
north of it on the Marsinah
Plains and you will come across
Chein. This battle can be won,
but it doesn't have to be. Chein
is tough so you could lose. Head
to Cragbark and the Hse of the
King

61. Autar - Autar can be
    recruited right after
    recruiting Diulf and the
    Roar
Tribe. Talk to Autar at Cragbark
and then 'Gather Animals!' will
appear at your HQ. To succeed in
this quest, you need every
character with 80 in the speed
and luck department. Leveling
them up at the Marsinah Plains
would be an easy way to get
characters close enough in both
categories. Just pick characters
that are naturally high in both,
especially speed. Luck can be
augmented big time with Treasure
Swords and Noble Shoes, luck
raising gear from Pharamond.
After completing 'Gather
Animals!', report on it and then
visit Autar at the Town Square
and he will be recruited.

62. Guntram - Popular citizen of
    Pharamond, he joins
    automatically as you
storm back to take Astrasia.

63. Fredegund - Sister of
    Chrodechild, joins
    automatically upon taking
    Astrasia
back from the Order.

64. Ouragan - Assassin who you
    first meet after finishing
    the Icas and Morrin
events. You have to defeat him
in battle, and then he leaves.
At this point I went and
recruited the Dromon Pirates,
and by the time I got back
Ouragan was at the HQ talking
about Icas. Next go to Naineneis
to see a scene with the Assassin
again. Return to your HQ and the
Assassin will be there, and will
ask Hero to show him that Icas
is still at your HQ. Hero does
so, and Assassin leaves again.
After returning from recruiting
Diulf and the Roar, then talking
to Atrie, leave for Cragbark
General Store. The Assassin will
be here and talks to you a bit
more about his motives for
following Icas. He doesn't seem
to care much anymore. At this
point I took Pharamond back over
and walked around for maybe 15
days / the next season, and
Ouragan was back at the HQ.
Turns out he wants to join your
company so he can continue his
adventures.

65. Luo-Tao - After visiting the
    Scribes with Liu, Luo-Tao
    will join
automatically.

66. Len-Lien - Joins your
    company with Luo-Tao.

67. Yula - Yula I believe
    becomes available after
    returning from the Scribes'
Village. Bring Chrodechild with
and talk to Yula along the way
to the Pharamond Castle.
Chrodechild will be in a duel
with Yula. Use your Basic Falcon
and Mega Medicine if you need
to. Yula should not be too tough
for someone as statistically
gifted as Chrodechild. Even
better, she'll gain several
levels, all the way to 40 for
me. By touching the sword, Yula
got a vision. She is then
recruited after this.

68. Amaralicht - With Fredegund
    and or Chrodechild in your
    party, go to the
Pharamond Castle to see
Amaralicht and Quillard.
Quillard will make a comment
about the 'traitor' Fredegund,
and then run off. You have to go
find him now, and Quillard has
made his way to the Wilds of
Veile. Head northeast past where
you encountered the Auster Folk.
In the next screen you will see
some Order soldiers messing with
Quillard - they shouldn't be too
hard for you to mop up.
Afterwards, Quillard apologizes
and both Quillard and Amaralicht
will join your army.

69. Quillard - See Amaralicht
    above.

70. Lathilda - After returning
    from the Scribe's Village,
    talk to Guntram at
the Pharamond Castle. He talks
about the Woodsland and has a
feeling that some lady from
Astrasia now lives there. Take
out any Scribes in your party,
and put in Chrodechild,
Fredegund and Guntram into your
party.

Go to the Noslaw Woods, and
travel east a few screens (from
the south end). You will come
across Bosche, a wild guy. He
runs off a bit further to show
you his beautiful wife Lathilda.
The Astrasia people you brought
with recognize her and is glad
to hear that the Order is no
longer in control of Pharamond.
They then travel to Pharamond
with you to see that it is
indeed peaceful. In order to
keep it that way, they join your
army.

71. Bosche - Joins with his wife
    Lathilda.

Recruitment note : After
returning from Scribe's Village,
go through the east entrance to
Giney Valley without Liu in your
party. In the next screen you
should see a dark shrouded
figure, asking about the Elder
Scribe. Then she walks off, but
it is important to see this
event right now. You will then
see a request from her labeled
'I want to see the Elder'.
Complete this and then you will
see her much later.

72. Mourgent - Make sure Yula
    and Chrodechild are not in
    your party, and then
go to the Blades of Night's
Veil's area at HQ (2nd floor,
west end). Yula and Chrodechild
will be talking about a
legendary blademaster named
Mourgent. Now take Yula over to
Noslaw Woods or Wilds of Veile
to level up in the low to mid
thirties. Sign up for Request
from Gadburg, and you will
appear at those strange ruins by
Citro Village. Gadburg calls for
Mourgent who actually walks
right up. Yula has been
following your party and
challenges Mourgent. Use Basic
Falcon and it won't be a long
battle, he has but 500-600 HP.
Use a Mega Medicine if you need
to. Mourgent is then convinced
to join your company by Gadburg
and Yula, and he does. Mourgent
is an elite swordsman in battle
with True Falcon.

73. Elder Rajim - After Luo-Tao
    begins to work on finding
    where the Chronicles
are, go talk to Moana. She says
Elder Rajim is by the back
entrance, so go there with Hero
and Liu. Rajim touches Liu and
gets the vision - he is a
starbearer as well it seems.
Rajim joins your company.

74. Megion - After the Ch'olui
    Mountains disappear, travel
    through the peak and
down the rope to that northeast
end of Marsinah Plains. Try to
enter the ruins, and as you do
Megion talks to you.

A bit after returning from the
Scribe's Village you should see
a request labeled Return of
Megion. Level up Diulf and his
crew at the Wilds of Veile or Mt
Svatgol to get them in the mid
30's to make this battle easier.
Then go to Cragbark to meet two
roar friends of Megion, Eusmil
and Nictis. Tigre will mention
those Decaved Ruins northeast of
Cragbark that you have been to.
Rest up and head through the
Ch'olui Mountains to get to the
Mysterious Ruins.

There are some really tough
enemies in these ruins and some
really easy ones. Take the
southwest route and then north
for a Lazuli Rod. Now go back a
bit and look for a north route
going west. You will meet the
three Roars led by Megion up
ahead. It is imperative you have
those Roar Tribe members of your
own leveled up and outfitted
nice, because this can be a
tough battle. Megion in
particular can wreak havoc by
upping his attack and taking off
upwards of 300 damage without a
barrier. The other two are a tad
weaker than Megion and really
don't have many powerful
abilities. With some
underleveled Roars I managed to
win with the group leveling up
from 25-26 to 34-35. Hero and
Diulf have the group touch the
Chronicles to get a vision of
the One King. They then decide
to fight by Diulf's side.
Eusmil, Nictis and Megion are
recruited.

75. Nictis - Joins with Megion
    above.

76. Eusmil - Joins with Megion
    above.

77. Savina - On the second floor
    of the Inn at Pharamond, you
    will find Savina.
You have to have Icas in your
army, and if she won't show up
at the Inn you may need to rest
or go through a plot event to
get her to appear. She is
looking for her lover Darrow
(you've met them at Cynas
before), but Darrow is stuck in
Cynas. Savina will be recruited
for now.

78. Lubberkin - Sign up for
    Atrie's World after
    returning from the Scribe's
Village. Report on the quest to
learn that your participants saw
someone from our own world in
another world. Now, to the
Grayridge Mine. Hotupa and Hero
appear at the Grayridge Gateway
to see this scrubby man, who is
crying. He leaves and thankfully
you appear at the Grayridge
town. Go to the Inn and put
Logan in your party, and then go
down the alley to see that man
cowering by a wall. Logan
recognizes him as Lubberkin,
both miners. Lubberkin is sad
the town has fallen to the
Order, and he decides to join
you and Logan at your company.

79. Namna - Namna is the Porpos-
    kin you have hopefully been
    visiting for many
bud seasons up until now. After
you have defeated the Archivists
after they turn into Chronicle
Monsters (Dirk being the last),
you should be able to get a
different dialogue from Namna.
Namna usually just checks up on
Niera and says it's time to
leave, but at this point Neira
should stop Namna from leaving
and order Namna to join your
company. I visited Namna 8-10
times up until this point, not
sure if that influences it but
make a habit of visiting Namna
every Bud season. Otherwise, if
you wait too long the dialogue
will never change and you won't
be able to recruit Namna.

80. Hina - At the port area
    outside of the castle to the
    west, talk to the
Dromon pirates, specifically
Xebec. He will spew out several
lines about the past of
Lonomakua. Speak with him a few
times and then go to Moana to
see a new request up. Put the
Pirate party in and Xebec will
recognize the name Hina Aumakua,
who has the same blood as the
Chief. This quest is a whopping
40 days, so walk around for a
while and return to see the
pirates have brought Hina back.
She may be little but she is a
powerful magician and daughter
of the Tribal Head Kane Hekili
Aumakua.

81. Shams - After the Janam
    event, go to Salsabil to see
    things have completely
changed. After you talk to Shams
and stay at the Inn, he will
come by again and tell of what
happened and express his desire
to join. Shams then joins with
the Ancient Covenant Chronicle.

82. Taj - Taj initially comes
    with Shams as you leave
    Salsabil, though he does
not know what really happened
and cannot use the Mark of the
Stars. You will fight Dirk with
him, and afterwards he will
continue to be in your service.
However, you have to later go to
Shams' room and talk to Taj
there, and it will be time for
him to touch the Chronicle and
see the truth. Taj is then
recruited.

83. Tsaubern - After you have
    escaped to the castle with
    Shams and Taj (after
defeating Dirk), return back to
Salsabil and check out the
entire town. After checking each
spot, you can try to leave and
Tsaubern stops you. He is from
Ritterschild but is in a hurry
so he leaves, but promises a
visit.

Return home to HQ and sign up
for 'Promised Visit'. You will
be at the top of your HQ with
Tsaubern - turns out he is a rep
from Ritterschild. Have him
touch the Chronicle and he'll
have those visions of the
Magedom. Tsaubern is then
recruited.

84. Ramin - Ramin is the Maestro
    you first come across as you
    return to
Salsabil. Ramin is at the Trade
Harbor making music, making
everyone mad. Hero chases him
off, and then return to HQ to
sign up for Discordant
Countermeasures which is based
in Naineneis. Head to the
'Street' to see that same
Maestro. Hero can tell that
music makes people mad, and he
runs Maestro out of there. Go to
Cragbark now, the Town Square.
Hero won't let him play music
here as the Roar would
annihilate Ramin, so Hero drags
him out to Marsinah Plains. A
battle with Pekklars begins, and
everyone is in Fury status.
These should be easy to maul and
you now know what Ramin does in
battle - occassionally provides
Fury status upon start of
battle. It is less likely than
passive Fury Marks but still has
some value. Ramin then joins the
army.

85. Diadora - Joins
    automatically after
    defeating her at the El-
    Qaral Arcane
Academy while looking for a
Chronicle with Luo-Tao. Diadora
is an elite magician and
provides extra scenes at the end
of the game if you use her.

86. Misrach - You meet this
    'ruffian' much earlier in
    the game, but doesn't
join until after the desert
event and immediately after
acquiring the Endless Travels
Chronicle. Misrach is the leader
of the Salsabil Liberation Army,
and you fought him during the
3rd Empress Consort mission (and
possibly again if you visited
that southeast Mislato River
area again). Also there was a
Salsabil Liberation Army request
where you see Misrach too.
Anyway, after the battle at the
bottom of the Arcane Academy
with Diadora, make your way to
Salsabil. Go to the royal house
to see Misrach. He doesn't
remember fighting you at all
since Janam is not around
anymore. After returning to
Mislato River and then touching
a Chronicle, Misrach remembers
and has even more reason to join
and fight the Order. I was
really looking forward to using
Misrach but he's quite mediocre.

87. Nova - After storming the
    Tower of the Way with
    Diadora, you will flee and
bring Nova along as well. He is
passed out but joins
automatically after this.

88. Nofret - Once you return
    with Nova and Diadora from
    the Tower of the Way,
make your way to the El-Qaral
ruins, Arcane Academy. As you go
down the stairs you will see a
new room open to the right at
the second to last level. Take
this route to meet some bandits
led by Nofret. You can fight her
by choosing the first option,
she isn't hard.

Go to Salsabil and put Manaril
and Shams in your party, then
return to Nofret. Nofret trusts
that these two are truly
royalty. Back at Forest Ruins
HQ, there should be a new
request to help them dig. Bring
strong members - not sure how
strong, but your strongest
should suffice (check their
specific responses to make
sure). After succeeding, take
your rewards and then put Shams
/ Manaril back in your party to
go visit Nofret. Nofret is
recruited after this.

89. Vaslof - Enemy general who
    turns to the Hero's side
    after the failed attack
on Fort Arc. Vaslof touches the
Chronicle and remembers what
happened with Ladzaa Fortress,
and joins automatically.

90. Resno - Joins automatically
    with Vaslof.

91. Gilliam - This is a tough
    recruit, so read closely.
    You meet Gilliam at the
very beginning when you
initially go to Grayridge. After
the first failed attack on Fort
Arc, go to visit Gilliam at the
Grayridge Ch Hall. Valfred is
losing the confidence of
Grayridge. Ask Gilliam to join,
but he can't yet.

Now please save your game. You
have to succeed with flying
colors on this upcoming request
or else you will not be able to
recruit Gilliam. Sign up for
'Defend Grayridge' and send
three groups to defeat the sand
monsters. Try to load up with
strong members, at least over
110+ each and preferably 140+.
You need 3 full groups so you
might be stretching it a bit,
though your army should have
sufficient depth at this point
for a quest of this nature.

If you succeed completely, you
gain 50000 potch. Now there is a
semi-complete ending to this
too, if you gain 5000 potch and
the Order never attacked. This
is not the result you want, as
you will not be able to recruit
Gilliam (at least as far as I
know). So, make sure you save
and succeed completely with
50000 potch - then go to
Grayridge Ch Hall to talk to
Gilliam and recruit him.

92. Chief Kashgar - Joins
    automatically after Ordovic
    comes.

93. Ordovic - Auster spirit who
    joins after visiting Lugenik
    with Vaslof. One
of my personal favorites with
his high attack power, and
really high MP for a front line
fighter.

94. Indrik - An Auster oracle
    who you fight at Lugenik and
    then joins
automatically with the Chief.

95. Diiwica - Another Auster
    oracle who fights you at
    Lugenik and then joins
automatically with the Chief.

96. Sophia - Joins automatically
    after finally taking out
    Dust Sophia at Fort
Arc. Another powerful mage.

97. Darrow - Hopefully you
    recruited Savina from
    Pharamond Inn (read above).
After you storm Fort Arc and
take back Sophia, put Savina in
your party and head to Fort Arc.
Heading from Forest Ruins HQ, go
through main street but take the
second east passage. Continue
east, up the stairs, and after
some walking you will run into
Darrow. If you brought Savina,
she will call out to him and
Darrow will join. You do not
have to complete 'Find Darrow'
to recruit him either.

98. Yomi - Put Tsaubern and Yula
    in your party, and go to
    Lugenik main street.
Some performers are here and
they say that they are off to
Cynas to perform.

With Tsaubern and Yula still in
your party, go towards the
Grayridge Ch Hall to see those
performers once more. Cynas
didn't like their dances. Ask
them to help you, and they will
introduce themselves as Yomi and
Chihaya. You then recruit them,

99. Chihaya - Joins with Yomi
    above.

Recruitment note : After
Rarohenga appears, go to
Scribe's Village with Liu and
talk to Hao-Shi. If you have
noticed as you progress, Hao Shi
has new things to say to you,
and he has more to say. He still
will not join, but you will now
have to look for a 'Cleaning up
the Woodlands' request.

100. Tigre - After Rarohenga
     appears, bring Diulf to
     Cragbark Town Square. Talk
to Tigre and Diulf will convince
Tigre to join. He is a decent
front line fighter but is adept
at being a healer.

101. Keflen - You first can meet
     Keflen as soon as the
     desert of Janam appears.
You will find him knocked out,
and then will venture through
these Mysterious Ruins to the
west end. Keflen doesn't
remember much, but after
Rarohenga appears and you attain
the Chronicle of Boundless
Amber, talk to Keflen at your
HQ. He seems to have remembered
some more things and wants to go
to those Mysterious Ruins once
more.

So go to those Mysterious Ruins
just southeast of El-Qaral
ruins. Make your way to the
back, west end, once more. The
Chronicle of Boundless Amber
will begin to glow and a strange
man appears. Keflen recognizes
this man as Belemuel, spirit of
the bearer of the Tensyo Star.
Keflen gains confidence in his
past and decides to fight the
One King alongside you and
Belemuel. Both Keflen and
Belemuel are then recruited.

102. Belemuel - Recruited with
     Keflen - read above.

103. Kow-Low - You see Kow-Low
     at the Scribe's Village (he
     is the west-most
character). After Rarohenga
appears and after you see
Valfred there, return to your HQ
and sign up for Find Someone in
Rarohenga.

So go to Rarohenga, and then
those Mysterious Ruins in the
northwest part of Rarohenga.
Within you see that Scribe Man
with three Pawn enemies - defeat
them and then this Kow-Low guy
will follow you. He was
reluctant to leave the Woods but
had to save a girl.

Continue going east within to
find a girl being attacked by a
few more pawns. The girl has a
way to chase the Pawns off. Her
name is Rufa and they both join
after this scene.

104. Rufa - Joins with Kow-Low
     after the 'Find Someone in
     Rarohenga' request.
Read above for more details.

105. Enumclaw - If you have been
     keeping up on requests
     throughout the game,
you have seen 'Get Rid of Citro
Monster' and 'Get Rid of Mislato
Monster'. After the Mislato one
you should have had more
dialogue with this Enumclaw
fellow who hunts these Formless
Demons.

Sign up for 'Get Rid of Woodland
Monster' which appears after
Rarohenga. Make your way to
Noslaw Woods and you will see
Enumclaw after entering.
Enumclaw can sense when the
worlds become unstable and a
Formless Demon is about to come.
Hero will go with Enumclaw and
eventually you run across this
demon. Fight it for a while and
then Enumclaw interferes to send
the monster away. Enumclaw
afterward admits he is the Teni
Star and Hero then recruits
Enumclaw.

106. Hao-Shi - As stated in the
     Recruitment note above,
     Hao-Shi is the ugly,
grouchy Scribe you meet at the
village. After certain story
events, Hao-Shi will have added
dialogue including after
Rarohenga appears. Talk to him
then, and he'll still be opposed
to leaving the village.

After seeing Valfred at
Rarohenga, a bunch of quests
open up including 'Clean up the
Woodlands'. The party will
appear at Noslaw Woods after
signing up for the quest. Beat a
few Pawns and then Hero and Liu
go to the Woodlands Village.
Hao-Shi is still not willing to
help until Liu convinces him.
Hao Shi will follow you as you
defeat some more Pawns, and then
the village is safe. Afterwards,
Hao Shi can finally be
recruited.

107. Zayin - Strange cyborg
     found at the deepest part
     of the Rarohenga
Mysterious Ruins. You can visit
him initially as you enter
Rarohenga, but you will have to
bring Balsam and Yod. They
realize that Zayin is an android
like Yod.

Balsam gets Zayin going, and he
has a dangerous arsenal of
attack magic marks, not to
mention a natural back-row
regular attack (not that you'd
ever use it).

108. Mun-Tsang - She is
     mentioned in a Recruitment
     note above, because you
     need
to meet her at Giney Valley
(towards the east end) without
Liu in your party. 'I Want to
See the Elder' appears, a
request by this strange woman.
She sees Liu at Flesaria Forest
and is recognized as a banished
Scribe.

After taking Rarohenga, put Liu
in your party and go through
Fort Arc. Mun-Tsang will be
recruited here, which should be
the last Starbearer for you.
--------------------------------
E) Ending
--------------------------------
Everything has been done by me,
Lordyuanshu, and any copying of
it is illegal. If you would like
to host this walkthrough FAQ on
your site, email me.

If you'd like to see my online
guide (basically the same, but
picture-laden) There is also
exclusive content below not in
this Walkthrough FAQ.

You should only see this FAQ on
Gamefaqs + Lordyuanshu.com
Walkthrough FAQ's. If I add it
to other sites I will update
this part.

If you have questions visit my
forum. Or comment on the
different walkthrough pages
below.

Contact Lordyuanshu http://www.l
ordyuanshu.com/forums/ http://ww
w.lordyuanshu.com/category/suiko
den-tierkreis-ds



