   TTTTTTTTT                 H  
   T   T   T III  M M  EEEE  H  
 T      I  M M M E     HHHHHHHH 
 T      I  M M M EEEE  H      H 
 T      I  M   M E     H      H 
 T     III M   M EEEE  H      H 

  -UBAWARETA KAKO WO MOTOMETE-

(LAST UPDATED: 04/20/2008)

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| FAQ INTRO                     
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

Thanks for reading my FAQ for
Time Hollow! This is a guide for
the Japanese version of the
game. At the time of this
writing the English version has
not yet been released, but for
anyone who is reading this FAQ
after the English release and
playing that version, I would
probab- ly not recommend this
particular FAQ. I will be
covering a lot of story that
would otherwise only be a
hindrance to finding the help
you really need, not to mention
the fact that the names will
probably be differ- ent. To
everyone else, I hope this guide
is helpful, and happy playing!
(P.S. I'm not a professional
Japanese translator or anything
even close to that. If you feel
this FAQ does a poor job in that
respect... well... I feel the
same way! Haha.)


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| TABLE OF CONTENTS             
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

*- 1.0 Characters
*- 2.0 Controls
*- 3.0 The Menu Screen
*- 4.0 Walkthrough
*--- 4.1 Prologue: A New Day
*--- 4.2 Chapter 1: The Day that
*--- 4.3 Chapter 2: The Day that
*--- 4.4 Chapter 3: The Day of M
*--- 4.5 Chapter 4: The Day Far 
*--- 4.6 Chapter 5: The Day of R
*--- 4.7 Chapter 6: The Final Da
*--- 4.8 Epilogue: A New Day Daw
*--- 4.9 Second Playthrough
*- 5.0 Locations
*- 6.0 Items
*- 7.0 Flashbacks
*- 8.0 Contact


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| CHARACTERS  (1.0)             
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

 HOROU TOKIO
*-----------*
An average second-year high
school student living with his
parents. On the morning of his
seventeenth birthday he realized
that his world had been changed
into one in which his parents
had disappeared twelve years
ago. With help from the Hollow
Pen, a device which can change
the past, he sets out to resolve
this strange turn of events.

 WATARU TOKIO
*------------*
Horou's father. Came to be
'missing twelve years ago'
around the time of Horou's
seventeenth birthday. Is there
some reason that he appears to
be older than his years...?

 AKI TOKIO
*---------*
Horou's mother. She never takes
things too seriously, but she is
a kind parent who always puts
her family first. She
disappeared twelve years ago
together with Wataru.

 TAMOTSU TOKIO
*-------------*
Horou's uncle and Wataru's
younger brother. A freelance
journalist tracking an old case.
He can be blunt, but underneath
that lies a kind heart. It would
seem that he had not been on
good terms with Wataru, but when
Wataru and Aki turned up
missing, he looked after Horou
in their place.

 SEISAKU ICHIYANAGI
*------------------*
Owner of Aeon, the antique shop
near Horou's school. Normally
wearing a sweet smile, he can
turn very serious when it comes
to antiques. Did Waori and Kuri
buy Horou's birthday present
from his shop?

 NAOKO ICHIYANAGI
*----------------*
Ichiyanagi's mother. She died in
a bus accident a long time ago.

 SAKUTAROU NINOMIYA
*------------------*
Horou's homeroom teacher. His
habit of tossing language
questions at loitering students
can be a problem even for Horou.
It seems that at one time he was
also Tamotsu's homeroom
teacher...

 MOTOKI MIHARA
*-------------*
Horou's childhood friend. He has
a laid back personality and
likes to go at his own pace, but
when push comes to shove he can
be very relia- ble. Even though
he finds his younger sister
Waori to be annoying, there is
another side of him that is
protective of her.

 WAORI MIHARA
*------------*
Motoki's younger sister. She's
the kind of person who
immediately turns her thoughts
into actions. She does this
despite her brother's worry.

 SHUNTA SHIDOU
*-------------*
Horou's childhood friend. He has
a positive attitude, but since
he often does things without
considering the consequences,
there are a lot of times when he
finds himself in less-than-
favorable situations. When he's
angry he doesn't let anyone come
near him.

 NAGI GOSHIMA
*------------*
Horou's childhood friend.
Whenever he has free time he can
be found studying. At first
glance he seems very calm and
grown-up, but is often verbally
abusive.

 KOTOKO ROKUJOU
*--------------*
Owner of Chronos, the cafe Horou
and his friends like to hang out
in. Even when Horou and his
friends are noisy, she continues
to treat them kindly. She
usually goes about her work
silently, but is it possible
that she really likes to talk?

 RYUNOSUKE NANASAWA
*-------------------*
A regular customer at Chronos
who likes to watch women
working. At times his tone can
be a little rough, but he loves
children and ani- mals. It seems
that he's quite friendly with
Yagi...

 MAYU YAGI
*---------*
A part-time employee at Chronos.
Horou's friend Shidou (and maybe
even Motoki) have a crush on
her. Seems to be going to a
nearby community college.
Creates a light-hearted
atmosphere in Chronos with her
friend- ly smile and small talk.
This distresses Rokujou a little
since she actually seems to
prefer talking to doing her job.
She also becomes entangled in
various incidents due to her
connection with Horou.

 SHOUKO KURI
*-----------*
She is Waori's best friend, but
since her personality is so
drastically different her
opinions are put on the back
burner. She is a little jealous
of Waori's ability to clearly
speak her mind.

 SONOKA TOKURA
*-------------*
A librarian at the local
library. At work she is very
tight-lipped and serious, but
maybe she's different in her
private life? Since Shidou has
such a weak spot for beautiful
women, he sometimes goes to the
library just to check up on her.

 ARATA JUICHITANI
*----------------*
An elementary school student who
lives in the area. Since he
loves to go on walks with his
dog John, he comes across Horou
in various places. Will John and
him become embroiled in the
coming events as a result of
meeting Horou...?

 KANON JUNIBAYASHI
*-----------------*
A strange girl who knows all
about what Horou has been doing.
She seems to be harboring a
secret of her own...

 FOLLOW
*------*
Horou's pet cat. She is very
attached to Horou, and can often
be found sleeping on Horou's
bed. She moves slowly and has a
rather strange meow: bunya~!

 JOHN
*----*
Arata's pet dog. He's very mild-
mannered and kind.

 SHIRO
*-----*
A dog that Horou and his friends
kept at their secret base when
they were kids.


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| CONTROLS (2.0)                
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

 BASICS
*------*
Touch the part of the screen
that you wish to examine. If you
touch a place which cannot be
examined then nothing will
happen, but if the spot can be
searched an icon will appear. If
you touch the icon a second
time, Horou will examine that
area. You can also move the
camera along the lower screen.
You can do this by either
pushing left/right on the
directional pad or by dragging
your stylus along screen.

 CONVERSATION
*------------*
If you touch the person you wish
to speak to with your stylus, a
speech icon will appear. Touch
that icon a second time to begin
conversation.

 MOVEMENT
*--------*
If you touch an area that can be
moved into, a walking stick
figure icon will appear. Touch
it a second time to change your
location. If you touch the gear
icon in the upper-right hand
corner of the screen, Horou will
either exit the room he is
currently in or return to the
map screen. Pressing the B
button performs the same
function.

 DIGGING (THE HOLLOW PEN)
*------------------------*
Whenever you enter a screen
where the Hollow Pen can be
used, a conf- irmation screen
will appear. If you are ready to
use the Pen, then select the
option on the left. If you would
like to wait, select the option
on the right. When you are
ready, time will stop and you
can open a portal into the past.
To open a time hollow, simply
draw a circle over the part you
wish to examine/change. There is
a limit to how big the circle
can be drawn, so keep that in
mind. The hollow will open to
the same time that is shown in
your flashback, which will in
turn be displayed in its
entirety on the top screen. Look
carefully before making a
portal! Each one you make drains
a little bit of your energy. If
you chose the wrong location,
touch the circle in the upper-
right hand corner to try again.
If the blue gauge on the top of
the screen drops to zero the
game will be over and you will
have to start from your last
save. There is one thing to
note, though. Through- out the
game, if you visit locations
that are outside of the main
story, you may run into Follow.
She will replenish some of your
energy. Damage from making
portals carries over, so be sure
to search for the cat every once
in a while!

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| THE MENU SCREEN (3.0) |
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

From here you can view various
information, check character
profiles, and save/load your
game. Be sure to check back
often! A good rule of thumb to
follow is that whenever the menu
icon is flashing, you should
come in and check all the sub-
menus marked as 'NEW.'

 FLASHBACKS
*----------*
View Horou's flashbacks here.
Each time the past has been
changed, new flashbacks will be
unlocked. Flashbacks are little
bits of memories/ events that
have occured in the 'current
timeline.' Whenever flashbacks
first appear, the details will
be foggy. When you open up the
flash- backs sub-menu, you will
see some floating images. These
are fhe flash- backs that are
still unclear. As you talk to
people and visit locations in
your current timeline, you can
examine these flashbacks to fill
in information on them. Once all
information has gathered, the
flashbacks will be considered
'clear.' At this point, they
will move to a the part of the
menu which contains all of your
confirmed flashbacks. To view
confirmed flashbacks, either
touch the bottom part of the
screen or push the L button.
Normally you will not be able to
use the Hollow Pen until a
flashback has become clear. To
return to the unclear flash-
backs, press the R button.

 ITEMS
*-----*
You can examine items you are
carrying here. Sometimes the
descriptions contain clues.

 CHARACTERS
*----------*
Read character profiles here.
Details about specific
characters change over time, but
these will be covered in the
walkthrough it- self. For a
general overview of the
characters as they appear in the
beginning of the game, see
section 1.0.

 LOAD
*----*
Load from a previous save here.
You will be asked to confirm the
load. Yes is on the left and no
is on the right.

 SAVE
*----*
Save your game data here. You
will be asked if you would like
to over- write your current save
file. Yes is on the left and no
is on the right.


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| WALKTHROUGH (4.0)             
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

Horou wakes up hurting, only to
find scratches on his hand. As
it turns out, he got the
scratches from Follow when
trying to give her a bath.
Examine all the areas of the
bedroom until Horou's mother,
Aki, calls him down for dinner.

 PROLOGUE: A NEW DAY (4.1)
*-------------------------*
Horou is immediately
disappointed by the lack of
flavor in his mother's cooking,
but apparently this is the norm.
Talk to Horou's father, Wataru,
and he will ask you to pass the
soy sauce. It can be found in
the lower-right hand corner of
the screen. After that, speak
with Aki and Horou will ask her
to pass the salt. She'll point
out the scratches from Follow,
which will prompt a freak-out
from Wataru, who thinks that
perhaps Tokio was attacked.
Horou sets him straight by
telling him about what happened
with Follow. Hmm, that was
strange...

Speaking of Follow, Aki mentions
that Tamotsu hasn't come by the
house in a while. Tamotsu, who
is Horou's uncle, was Follow's
original owner. Wataru states
that the only reason Tamotsu
comes by anyway is to ask for
money, so it's better that he
doesn't. It would seem that
Wataru Tamotsu aren't on the
best terms at the moment.

Touch the stairs and Horou will
return to his room. Once there,
he finds that his window is
open. Touch the window to close
it. Follow's lying on the bed,
but is clearly the culprit.
Horou will now be called
downstairs for tea, so exit the
bedroom.

On the way downstairs, Horou
hears yelling. It's Tamotsu
begging for money from Wataru,
who refuses to lend even a
little bit. After some harsh
words are exchanged, Tamotsu
heads home.

After Tamotsu leaves, the family
gets around to talking about
Horou's birthday, which is
tomorrow. He is turning
seventeen. Horou, who loves
watches, tries to tell his
parents about a model he would
really like to recieve as a
present. However, his parents
pretend not to hear him. They
keep mentioning some 'important
talk' that Wataru has to have
with Horou. Even over Horou's
insistance that they talk about
his present, they continue to
ignore him and decide to have
whatever talk they want to have
with Horou tomorrow.

Aki tries to make nice with
Horou by saying that Wataru is
just worr- ied about a lot of
things, but Horou is still
angry. He insults his mother's
cooking and goes to bed. (Oh my,
not the cooking...!)

Back in the bedroom, click on
Follow to get her off the bed.
Now click on the bed to go to
sleep. Horou feels bad about
what he said to his mother, and
becomes curious about what his
father has to say tomorrow.

Cutscene time! A younger version
of Horou is seen having a bad
dream. In it, his parents are in
a fire. Suddenly, however, a
strange portal opens. Time stops
for everyone but Wataru, who
demands to know who made the
portal. In the end he decides it
was the doing of Horou, so he
takes Aki and walks through. In
his dream, young Horou is
protesting. Then we see the more
recent Horou wake up, apparently
having had the same dream.

He's covered in sweat, and when
he looks at his hand the cuts
from earlier have completely
disappeared. Click on various
parts of the room to see how it
has changed. The bedcover has
changed from check- ered to
polka dots, and the floor is now
hardwood. Hmm...

Follow will get up and grab your
attention. She's carrying
something on her neck. A pen?
Now you can finally examine the
portal that's surely been
bothering you this whole time.
It's exactly like the one in
Horou's dream. Horou brings the
pen up to it, and consequently
sees his very first flashbacks.
For details on how to use
flashbacks, please see section
3.0.

Hearing the noise Horou is
making, a voice calls up to him
from down- stairs, but it's not
his parents. It's Tamotsu,
Horou's uncle. When Horou asks
if Tamotsu is here to visit his
dad, Tamotsu seems a little put
off. He reminds Horou that...
his parents haven't been around
for twelve years? Hearing this,
Horou seems to remember little
bits and pieces. He is living
with his uncle, who is a
freelance journalist... but
that's all. Tamotsu goes back
downstairs to eat breakfast.

Horou begins to question his
reality and wonders living with
his parents was the real dream.
Head downstairs. Despite
remembering that his family
usually drank tea, he and his
uncle are having coffee for
breakfast, which is also
something that Horou remembers
to be true. So which memory is
really a dream? Try to leave the
house and Horou will remember
that he has school today.

Horou was distracted and unable
to concentrate in class today.
He notices two boys talking
loudly. It seems that one of
them found an expensive watch in
the garbage. Didn't Horou want a
watch just yester- day?

Suddenly two girls come running
over: Waori (short brown hair)
and Kuri (green pigtails).
They've come to wish Horou a
happy birthday and give him his
present, a nice antique clock.
Seems like they've been paying
attention, and know how much
Horou loves clocks! They run off
when Waori spots her older
brother, Motoki.

Mihara is with two other boys,
and together they are Horou's
best friends. Motoki has medium-
length brown hair, Shidou is the
one with glasses, and finally
Goshima is the one with long
blue hair. They spend a minute
mocking Horou for the present he
recieved (mostly because of WHO
he got it from).

Still a little unclear on what
happened to his parents, Horou
decides to ask his friends. He
doesn't really get any new
information, just the same
repeat on how they disappeared
twelve years ago.

You are now on the map screen.
If you'd like, you can check the
various locations to view
optional events. When you are
done head to Horou's house.
Tamotsu is not home yet. Go
upstairs to put your new present
on your bookshelf. Horou
remembers once more that in his
alternate reality his father had
something important to say. Just
then, he notices a piece of
paper attached to Follow's
collar.

The letter reads, "The Hollow
Pen has been passed down through
the Tokio family for
generations. When certain
requirements have been met, the
tip of the pen glows. When this
happens, a hole can be made in
time. If you want to know more,
go to the school's dump. May
7th, seven hours ago." What
could it mean? Go downstairs.

Tamotsu is back. He's a little
hard to talk to. Tamotsu leaves
to go to bed, so Horou can exit
the house now. Now go the the
map screen and over to Kako High
School. Pass through the gates,
and there will be a passage to
the right. Go there. Horou
recognizes it as one of the
loca- tions in his flashbacks.
Go to your flashback menu and
clear up the memory about this
location. Upon exiting the menu,
your Hollow Pen will begin to
glow. If you haven't already, it
might be a good idea to read
about Digging in section 3.0 in
this FAQ. I won't be covering
the sub- scenarios, so pay
special attention to the part
about Follow. ;)

If you look at the top screen of
your DS, you will see Horou's
flash- back. On top of the
garbage is a red box and an
envelope. Draw a circle on the
bottom screen over that area. If
you did it right, you will be
able to see the red box through
the hole. Click on it to open a
menu. Examine the item. A short
cutscene will play.

Horou pulls out the letter. "On
the other side of the hole lies
a 'certain moment' in the past.
You can't simply leave the whole
open. As long as it is open,
time will not move. Also, in
order to use the Pen, the user's
'time' is necessary. Once you
are able to use the Pen well, I
would like you to help us. P.S.:
That box is a present. A
commemoration of your first
hollow. -Dad"

Horou is shocked. A letter from
his father? And inside the box
is the watch he wanted. This
confirms for Horou that what he
saw yesterday was no dream. Now
close the portal. You will get
some new flashbacks. Horou goes
home. He is now determined to
get his parents back, with help
from the Hollow Pen.

 CHAPTER 1: THE DAY THAT VANISHE
*-------------------------------
School has just ended. Horou is
approached by Mr. Ninomiya, his
home- room teacher. He asks you
to continue a proverb. "Art is
long, life is short."

- Horou Tokio will last a long t
* Nothing is more precious than 
- I... I don't know

The second choice is the correct
answer, but as far as I know
this game never punishes you for
making the 'silly' or 'wrong'
choices. Whatever you choose,
Ninomiya will leave. Horou
begins to wonder about how the
Hollow Pen works, but his
thoughts are interrupted by
Waori and Kuri. They want to
know what happened with
yesterday's present, and are
glad to hear that Horou's using
it! (Kuri in particular, it
seems.)

Motoki enters the conversation,
and admonishes Waori for
spending all her savings on a
present for Horou, especially
since she recently lost her
phone and needs to buy a new
one. They begin to argue about
her phone decoration (is it a
dog or a pig?) when all of a
sudden...

Horou gets some new flashbacks,
and his friends are nowhere to
be seen. He is approached by a
seemingly distressed Shidou. As
it turns out, Waori has gone
missing. Horou decides to help
in the search for her by
checking around campus. Shidou
asks that Horou tell Goshima to
join in the search if he sees
him, and then leaves for the
train station. It would seem
that history has been changed
again.

For now, go inside the school
building. Upon seeing the
lockers, Horou will remember his
flashback that took place there.
Talk to the boy walking down the
hall.

- Do you know Waori Mihara?
He says that he knows her, but
that she's been away for the
past two days.

- When was the last time you saw
He says that would be after
school two days ago, at around
4:00, and that she was looking
for something.

- What was Waori looking for?
He doesn't know.

The boy leaves at this point, so
proceed down the hall. Mr.
Ninomiya is standing there, so
talk to him. Apparently the
teachers are holding an
emergency meeting about the
whole Waori situation. He's in a
hurry to get there so leaves
pretty quickly. You can't do
anything about it now, but you
might want to take not of the
posting on the wall next to the
classroom door. It says that a
student, Junibayashi, found
someone's dropped item. Hmm...
For now, enter the classroom.

Goshima is inside (studying as
diligently as ever), along with
some other students. If you try
to talk to the girl with long
purple hair, she will leave.
Talk to Goshima. He informs you
that he will be joining the
search in a minute. Horou asks
who that girl was, and Goshima
tells him that it's Junibayashi.
It seems she's been in the class
this whole time, but Horou
doesn't have that memory. Sounds
like one of the things that has
recently changed. Goshima now
leaves on his search.

Leave the school building. There
will be two girls standing
there, and Horou can tell
they're first-year students
(like Waori) because of their
uniforms. Time to have a little
talk!

- Do you know Waori Mihara?
They say that they're in her
class, but don't know her very
well. They have, however, heard
about her disappearance. It
would seem that Kuri is also
searching for Waori.

- Kuri's searching for Waori too
There's a rumor going around
that Kuri was with Waori just
before she disappeared. Maybe
Kuri knows something?

- Where was Kuri headed?
They don't know.

Enter Shidou. He's not having
any luck either. Time to find
Kuri! She's in front of the
train station. Initiate a
conversation with her. The first
time Kuri and Horou met was when
she and Waori gave Horou his
birthday present, so needless to
say Kuri's a little surprised
when Horou addresses her by name
(since Horou didn't recieve his
present in this timeline). She
eventually reasons that he
probably heard about her from
Waori. Kuri then begins to blame
Waori's disappearance on
herself.

- Did something happen between y
Kuri tells Horou about how the
two of them were saving money to
buy him a present, but on the
day they were going to go buy
it, Waori claimed she didn't
have any. Kuri didn't believe
her at the time, but now that
Waori's gone, she's sure that
Waori just dropped the money
somewhere and lost it. However,
because she doubted Waori, when
they were fight- ing she pushed
Waori down. It's at this point
that Waori got angry and ran
away.

- Where did you guys fight?
They fought in front of Chronos,
by the bicycle that's always
parked there.

- When did the fight take place?
Kuri says it took place at 7:00
PM two days ago.

Horou thanks Kuri for her time.
He says that if he finds out
anything he'll call Kuri, and so
she should wait there. Now it's
time to go home and check on the
present. If that particular
encounter with Waori and Kuri is
gone, does that mean the present
is gone too? Go to Horou's
bedroom to check.

...Yup, it is indeed gone. Touch
the bookshelf that the clock
'used' to be sitting on. Horou
wonders, what else has changed
besides Waori's disappearance?
Just the presence of
Junibayashi, it seems. Can the
Hollow Pen really be used to
change the past in a way that
Waori can come back? Remember
that posting next to the
classroom door left by
Junibayashi? It mentioned a
'dropped item.' The two may be
linked, so let's go check it
out. Go to the school.

Upon entering the gates, Horou
will be approached by Goshima.
He's having as bad of luck
finding Waori as everyone else.
Continue inside. If you look at
the white piece of paper outside
of the classroom door, Horou
will notice that it has
Junibayashi's number written on
it. He decides to give her a
call about this memo. She agrees
to meet him.

Horou confirms with Junibayashi
that the item mentioned in the
memo was dropped two days ago,
and that it was even dropped by
a first-year student and
contained money. It has to be
Waori's! However, understand-
ably, Junibayashi will not give
Horou the envelope until he can
prove that he knows Waori.
You'll have to find some kind of
proof. Go to the Mihara family
household.

Motoki is sitting outside,
lamenting over the loss of his
sister. If Horou is going to
help him, he'll have to bring
Waori back. If you haven't yet
been here today, the game will
kick you back onto the map
screen. However, you should go
back in and try talking to
Motoki again. This time he'll
show you some pictures. One of
them shows Motoki, Waori and
Horou together. Surely this
could be used as evidence that
Horou is friends with Waori, so
Horou asks to borrow it. Let's
go back to school and try
speaking with Junibayashi again.

Horou will show Junibayashi the
photo. She will recognize Waori
as the girl who dropped the
envelope of money, and when she
sees that Horou is in the
picture as well, she hands it to
him. Junibayashi then mentions
that this whole thing never
would've happened if she wasn't
a student at this school (since
Waori dropped the money when she
ran into Junibayashi). Just as
Horou is about to ask what she
meant by that, she walks away.
Try going outside. Along the
way, the Hollow Pen will begin
to glow. Time to change the
past!

Create a portal around the
locker Waori is searching. Open
up the menu and select Item,
followed by the envelope. Now
that Waori has her money, you
can close the portal. Horou
will, of course, get some new
flashbacks. Now he's back in his
bedroom as well. Follow will
open the window, after which
Horou will notice Motoki
standing outside. He looks well,
and oh look, Waori is there to
bug him! All is well. :)

Since the envelope of money was
found by Waori later than
originally planned, her and Kuri
didn't have time to go shopping
for the antique clock. Horou has
received some homemade cookies
from the pair instead. Horou
thinks about how happy he is
that he was able to change the
past in such a positive way, and
is sure that he can do the same
for his parents.

 CHAPTER 2: THE DAY THAT CHANGED
*-------------------------------
If Horou is going to help his
parents, he'll need to collect
enough information for the
Hollow Pen to react. However,
his friends have other plans in
mind. They want to go to their
favorite cafe, Chronos!

Here you'll meet Yagi, Chronos'
resident pretty waitress.
Everyone will order their
'usual.' Pancakes and milk for
Shidou, a hot drink for Motoki
and Horou, and plum kombucha for
Goshima. The gang likes to come
to this cafe because the drinks
are cheap, there's free refills
and, well... Shidou likes the
waitress, Yagi.

Talk to/examine everyone in the
cafe. The two that are hardest
to spot are Rokujou, Chronos'
owner, who is standing behind
the counter on the far left, and
some unknown man wearing gloves
and reading the newspaper behind
Motoki. Upon doing so, Yagi will
walk over with a story to tell.
Apparently, while riding her
bike home, a large refrigerator
fell off a truck and directly
into the path of her bike. She
surmises that if her brakes
hadn't been working, she
could've died. After Yagi's
story is finished, the man
reading the newspaper will get
up and leave.

You will now see a cut scene,
only this time, Yagi's brakes
AREN'T working. Horou is outside
the cafe this time, and his
friends don't look to happy.
Examine the door to the cafe.
It's closed. Shidou explains
that Yagi had an accident. He is
naturally very upset about it.
Check up on each of the guys.
They all seem depressed. Horou
would be sad himself, but he
knows he can make things better
with the Hollow Pen. Better get
on it. Head to the intersection
where the accident occured, to
the left of Chronos.

Horou will think about his
flashback and how he has to
change something there to save
Yagi. All of a sudden,
Junibayashi appears. She
mentions to Horou that you can't
save a person who's already dead
(as Yagi is in his flashback).
She tells Horou to look for a
place further in the past.
Junibayashi leaves, but how did
she know about Horou's
flashbacks and his ability to
change the past?

If you go to the library, you
will find Waori and Kuri. Speak
with them. Horou wants to know
when it was that the two of them
met in front of Chronos. He
shouldn't even know this, so
Waori assumes he was spying on
them and therefor shouldn't have
to ask about the time, but Kuri
is nice enough to answer. Around
7:10.

You have to stop Yagi from
having her accident, so go back
to the area where her bike is
parked in front of Chronos. Make
a portal around the
handlebars/seat of Yagi's bike,
and examine it. Horou will
notice that the brake lines have
been cut. He can't just put them
back together, so there must be
another way. He takes the key to
the bike lock. (Good thing Yagi
is forgetful. Oh well.
Convenient is convenient!)

Horou is back inside Chronos,
which means it's open, which
means that Yagi is alive. Job
well done! Now Yagi has a new
story to tell. As she was
walking home, she saw an
accident. It was the same fridge
with the same general
circumstances, but this time
Yagi was not hit. However, a dog
being walked by a young boy died
in her place. The boy was
slightly injured, but otherwise
fine. Upon hearing about the
dog, Shidou sounds rather
distressed. He brings up a dog
called Shiro, a dog who's death
he blames on himself. Horou
realizes that the dog that
belonged to the young boy
probably died because he did a
sloppy job of fixing the past.
He tells everyone he has
something that he 'has to do,'
and exits Chronos.

Go back to the intersection.
There will be a little boy
standing there, so speak to him.
(Although I would also like to
point out the flowers. A dog got
flowers but Yagi didn't? Buh?
Haha.)

It's the same little boy who's
dog died. The boy is reluctant
to talk to Horou because he's a
stranger, but he gives in pretty
quickly. The boy's name is
Arata, and his dog was named
John. Horou asks Arata about the
accident. John was indeed hit
with a refrigerator, so the
vehicle that dropped it was
probably a truck. All that Arata
remembers is that the truck was
headed down the street towards
the front. Once Arata leaves,
walk over that way. Horou will
recognize it as one of the
places in his flashbacks, but he
has to gather more information.

As you try to head back towards
the map, you will find Follow.
From now on you can occasionally
find her around town. She'll
restore your energy a little, so
be on the lookout! The more
energy you have, the more
portals you can open.

Anyway, we know that Yagi
witnessed the accident, so start
the investi- gation by returning
to Chronos. Horou will tell Yagi
that he has some- thing to ask
her. She jokes that he must want
to know how she feels about him.
Horou gets embarassed and good
times are had by all. Yes, so...

- Do you know about the accident
Yup, the one where the dog died.

- Do you remember the truck on t
It doesn't seem that she does.
(That's a lot of question
marks!)

- Do you remember who else was o
She tells him that the woman in
the heart sweater was Tokura,
the local librarian.

Well, let's go to the library!
You'll run into Waori and Kuri
outside. This is another thing
that will be mostly true 'from
now on.' Kuri has developed some
psychic abilities, so if you
ever quit the game and forget
where you're supposed to go, go
see Kuri! She'll almost always
tell you where you need to be
next. But for now, let's go
inside and speak with Tokura.
She looks much different than
she did in the flash- back, but
it's her alright.

- Do you know about the accident
Of course she remembers, she was
there.

- Do you remember the truck on t
She remembers. She wishes she
could've warned the driver about
the boy.

- Do you remember what time it w
She says that she had run out of
soy sauce and gone out to get
some more at around 8:40.

That's all we needed, so return
to the intersection. You'll see
Goshima there, and you can talk
to him if you'd like. He just
wanted to come and see if he
could do anything about the
accident, and was just about to
head home. He leaves. Proceed to
the small side street. Horou is
a little concerned about the
line in the mysterious letter he
recieved that spoke about the
user's 'time' being necessary to
make dig with the Hollow Pen.
However, seeing as to how John's
death was probably his own
fault, Horou decides to ignore
it for the time being.

Start the digging process and
create a portal where the rope
tied to the back of the truck.
Examine that spot. Just as Horou
is about to do something about
the fridge he notices someone
else moving, which is strange
since time should be stopped.
It's Junibayashi again. She asks
if Horou can change the past
from here too, with his Pen. She
saw this same scene. So
Junibayashi both knows about the
Pen and gets flashbacks as
well... However, she does not
possess a pen of her own. In
fact, she can't even see Horou's
Pen. Horou wonders if maybe
someone else has a Pen, but
Junibayashi says he should focus
on changing this part of the
past for now and leaves.
Speaking of which... Horou
tightens the rope. Now the
fridge should stay secure. Close
the portal.

Horou is back in the cafe.
Everyone seems happy, except for
Shidou. You'll see a strange man
with blonde hair address Yagi as
he leaves. As it turns out, his
name is Nanasawa and he is
Yagi's boyfriend. So that's why
Shidou seems so down... Even
though Shidou's lost his crush,
this present is preferable to
the earlier deaths. Horou
resolves that this is good
enough, and he won't go out of
his way to fix this one.

Back in his room, Horou laments
over how he hasn't had time to
look into his parents'
disappearance yet, and wonder if
there might be someone else who
holds a Hollow Pen. After all,
Waori's disappearance and Yagi's
a result of his own actions.
Could the same person who made
him lose his parents be doing
these horrible things? And why
can Junibayashi see flashbacks
and move around when a portal is
open, even though she has no Pen
of her own? He resolves to ask
her everything the next time he
sees her at school.

As Horou is sleeping, an unknown
voice speaks about how 'he'
(Horou) is surely the one who
inherited the Pen. The voice
says that they'll wait and see
about him. If Horou becomes too
much of a problem, the speaker
will make Horou 'disappear.'

 CHAPTER 3: THE DAY OF MEMORIES 
*-------------------------------
There is no school today, so
Horou will have to hold off on
question- ing Junibayashi for
now. Horou is in the library
with Goshima. Goshima will sense
that Horou is thinking about
something important. Horou tries
to hide it at first, but in the
end decides to confide in
Goshima. So, he gives Goshima a
basic rundown of the events.
Goshima suggests that Horou
might be talking about 'parallel
worlds.' There was once a book
called 'The Mystery of Parallel
Worlds' left at the boys'
childhood secret hiding spot,
and Goshima had read about them
in there.

None-the-less, Goshima doesn't
believe Horou, and feels like
his time was wasted. At this
point he'll go outside to take a
phone call. Sounds like his
parents are riding him about his
grades. Goshima will return, and
this time Horou recieves a phone
call. It's from Motoki. He says
that Shidou has killed someone,
and that Horou should come to
Chronos immediately. Horou and
Goshima leave together, so head
to Chronos.

If you look to the left, you can
see blood on the ground. Examine
it, and Goshima will point out
the blood on Shidou's hands. Now
talk to Shidou and Motoki.
Shidou will scream that the
other guy started it. Finally,
examine Arata to the right. He
seems sad, so maybe he's
involved in this somehow? Now
Motoki will finally be able to
convince Shidou to calm down.
Try talking to him.

- What happened here?
Shidou will say that he didn't
do anything wrong, he just
wanted to go to Chronos.

Now talk to Goshima.

- Shidou killed someone?
He can't make that judgement yet
because no weapon has been
found.

Talk to him again.

- Any weapons?
He think that it must've been
something sharp, like a knife,
because of the blood.

This time, try speaking with
Motoki.

- Did you witness it?
Motoki did not see the moment of
the crime. When he came, the
other man, Nanasawa, was already
down. Motoki thought he was dead
at first, but he was actually
still breathing.

Talk to him one more time.

- Did you say Nanasawa?
Yes, Nanasawa was the man dating
Yagi.

Now talk to Arata. Since the
time when Horou once spoke to
Arata no longer happened, Horou
will have to introduce himself
again. Everyone else will follow
suit. Talk to Arata again to
begin a conversation.

- Why are you here?
He was walking his dog, John.

Speak with Arata again.

- Who attacked first?
Arata will say he was just
walking his dog, when all of a
sudden the guy wearing glasses,
Shidou, got angry at John.
Shidou will defend him- self by
saying that John was going to
attack him.

Talk to Arata again.

- Where is John now?
John ran away because he was
yelled at by Shidou.

Now that Horou has some
information on the situation,
talk to Shidou.

- Why did you attack Nanasawa?
Arata will answer for him.
Shidou had hit John and was
about to hit Arata when Nanasawa
came out. Arata then says that
Nanasawa saved him, and the two
men started fighting. Shidou
yells that Arata is spouting
nonsense.

Talk to Shidou again.

- Were you carrying anything sha
He has no idea. He just
complains about everyone ganging
up on him.

Talk to Mihara.

- What do you think?
He believes what Arata said,
since the facts seem to match
up. He knows that Shidou didn't
like Nanasawa for taking Yagi.
However, Shidou says that that
has nothing to do with the
current situation.

Finally (thank goodness...) talk
to Goshima.

- What should we do now?
Goshima suggests that they leave
Shidou in Motoki's care and go
look for John. Nanasawa has
already been taken by an
ambulance, so there's not much
they can do to help by simply
hanging around.

Horou and Goshima will leave
together. Goshima thinks that
Shidou will probably be
arrested. He suggests they go to
the train station and ask about
John around there. Once there,
Horou spots Junibayashi. Now
isn't the time to ask her about
all the things that have been
bugging Horou, so for the time
being they just ask about John.
She hasn't seen him, so we'll
have to look elsewhere.

The next place they stop it is a
location we haven't seen before.
It's the local antique shop,
Aeon. Goshima will mention that
this place was the source of
Shidou's change. Before the shop
was built, this area was the
boy's 'secret base.' At one
point, Shidou brought a dog they
named Shiro to keep there.
Everyone loved Shiro and they
took turns taking care of him,
but Shidou seemed to like him
most of all. It would seem that
on one of the days Shidou was
supposed to take care of Shiro,
a typhoon came through town.
Shiro, having been tied to the
playhouse, was unable to run
away and was struck by
lightning, killing him. Shidou
took the blame for forgetting
that it was his turn to take
care of Shiro, and it is said
that he was never the same
again.

However, John is not by Aeon, so
you will be brought back to the
map screen and can now search
freely. Apparently the location
of John changes with each
playthrough. The two places I've
seen come up are in the park
behind the right-hand bush, and
on the far right edge of
Mihara's house. If John is not
in either of these places, all I
can suggest is to keep looking.
He's usually not that well
hidden, luckily!

Once you find John, he will
whine. He looks quite scared,
not exactly the type of dog to
attack a person. Now return to
Chronos. It would seem that
Motoki has some bad news.
Nanasawa died on the way to the
hospital. Shidou is nowhere to
be found, and Motoki informs
Horou that he went to turn
himself in. Goshima can't
believe that he'd actually do
that, and runs off to track him
down. Motoki leaves to do the
same soon after. Horou still has
to return John to Arata, but
when he tries to get John to sit
down, John starts barking. This
will lead to Horou finding the
murder weapon, a clipper. It's
the kind that's strong enough to
cut wire, so it must be the tool
that was used in cutting Yagi's
brakes...

Having heard John bark, Arata
will now come out of Chronos.
Horou will try to hide the
bloody weapon from Arata, but is
too slow. Arata confirms that
those clippers were left on the
ground, and Shidou picked it up
and used it to attack Nanasawa.
Arata leaves to go home with
John.

I usually don't bother
mentioning this, but since you
don't actually have to go
anywhere else first, go to the
menu screen and update Horou's
flashbacks. When you exit, the
Hollow Pen will begin to glow.
Start digging.

You won't be able to see
anything of interest on the
flashback screen, so I'm afraid
it can't be relied on this time.
What you want to do is make a
portal near the base of the
foreground bushes, where the
bricks meet the ground. Next,
move the camera around with the
directional pad until you can
see... the clippers. Ah-ha!
Examine them and close the
portal. If there is no weapon,
Shidou can't hurt Nanasawa.

Horou will still be at Chronos,
but no one else is around. He
gets a phone call. It would seem
that Shidou is in bad shape.
Everyone is about to meet at the
station so they can take a bus
to the hospital. Since Shidou
was unable to defend himself
this time, he got beaten pretty
severely. He was hit in the head
and is currently still un-
conscious. Horou asks Goshima to
explain the basic situation for
him (even though he should
already know). Goshima obliges,
and as it turns out, the basics
remain the same. Shidou was
scared of John and got angry,
but Nanasawa ran out Chronos to
stop him, and the two began
fighting.

Go to the station. Junibayashi
is there. She thought she would
be able to meet Horou because
she figured he'd go to the
hospital. She knows just as well
as he does that his 'correction'
didn't go as plan. This sets
Goshima off, as he wants to know
what the two of them are talking
about. Goshima gets angry
because Junibayashi tells him
that what they're talking about
has nothing to do with him, and
tries to leave. Before he can
pull Horou away though,
Junibayashi tells Horou not to
give up. Shidou is his friend
and he can't leave him like he
is now. However, she will also
warn Horou that she's not sure
if there's enough 'time,' since
if what the letter Horou
recieved is true, the user's
time is necessary to change the
past. Junibayashi leaves.

Goshima asks again what
Junibayashi meant by 'making a
correction to help Shidou.'
Horou has told his story to
Goshima before, and since he
didn't believe him the first
time, he's reluctant to confide
in Goshima again. Still, he
asks...

- Do you believe in paranormal p
For example, Horou asks, the
existence of a world where
nothing bad happened to Shidou
and a device that could make
that world a reality. Goshima
doesn't outright deny it, but he
says they can't think about that
now and have to focus on the
present.

- What if I could change the pre
Goshima asks if that's even
possible.

- Can you keep a secret?
Goshima says that will be know
problem if it's what Horou
wants. So Horou tells Goshima
about the Hollow Pen. Goshima
seems intrigued this time, like
he might actually believe. Horou
tries to show Goshima the Pen,
but he can't see it. All Goshima
see's is Horou's hand. Instead
of trying to explain the
invisible Pen, Horou just makes
his explanation by saying he
sees the flashbacks and can
change the past in those
situations when his 'finger'
glows.

Goshima decides to believe in
Horou. Together they try to
think of a way to make it so
that Shidou and Nanasawa never
fought. If Horou goes back to
the point where Waori and Kuri
met in the parking lot, there
will still be a fight because
nothing can be changed there to
stop Nanasawa from leaving
Chronos and spotting Shidou. So
what should they do?

- Make it so Nanasawa stays in C
There's no flashback around the
time of the incident, so a
distraction won't work.

- Change Arata's route so that J
There IS a flashback of Arata
walking John, so Horou thinks
that maybe they can pass a note
telling Arata to walk elsewhere.
However Goshima shoots this down
knowing that Arata probably
wouldn't follow instruc- tions
in a note from someone he
doesn't know.

Try bringing up the two methods
again, and Goshima will confirm
that they just won't work. There
has to be another way. They
decide to think about it from
the point of view of Horou's
flashbacks. If they visit the
locations, maybe they can think
of something viable.

You'll need to go two places
before stumbling upon the
correct answer. Visit both the
back street of the intersection
and the garbage dump of the high
school. Horou and Goshima will
discuss the scenarios, and find
that they can't do anything from
these spots. After you have
visited both locations, they
will automatically go to Aeon.
This is the place where Shiro
was tied to the boys' secret
base and died. Perhaps if Shiro
didn't die, Shidou wouldn't
react the way he does to dogs.

They go inside to see if the pen
will react. Goshima thinks the
base itself would be in the area
behind the counter. However,
Horou needs to gather more
information first, or else going
back there won't do any good.
Horou decides to ask Goshima
what he remembers.

- Where exactly was Shiro?
The base was up a tree, and
Shiro was tied to the bottom of
it. The tree was standing in the
area behind where the counter is
now.

- What day was the typhoon?
Goshima knows it the typhoon
happened in August eight years
ago, but doesn't remember the
exact date.

They decide to go to the
library. If they look up back
issues of news- papers, they
just might be able to find the
date of the typhoon. Go to the
library. You can ignore Waori
and Kuri or talk to them, the
choice is yours. Either way,
you'll eventually want to make
your way inside and address
Tokura. You'll have to ask her
to look up the...

- Date
* Incident *

A typhoon that occured ten years
ago in August. After searching
for a minute, Tokura will print
out a related copy. So now Horou
knows the exact date and even
the time when the lightning bolt
struck: August 12th at 5:40 PM.
Exit the library and return to
Aeon.

The shop owner welcomes Horou
and Goshima back, and Horou asks
his favor. He wants to go in
back. The shop owner will inform
him that the items in back are
not for sale. He will ask if
Horou is a student of Kako High,
and looks pretty pleased when
Horou says yes since he him-
self is an alumni of that
school. He even had the same
homeroom teacher, Ninomiya!
Feeling a little more connected
with the boys, the shop owner
agrees to let them check out the
back. Just as Horou is about to
begin, the shop owner comes in
and mentions two girls who came
in and bought a clock as a
present just a few days ago. I
guess high school students don't
come into his shop too often.

Now the Pen will glow but once
again Horou is interrupted, this
time by Goshima. He wants
something of Horou. If Horou can
fix the situation with Shidou,
Goshima wants Horou to help him.
He says that he got a poor grade
on his last test, and because of
that his chances of getting into
the college is on the ropes.
Goshima takes his studies very
seriously, so he is not joking
around. But now is not the time
to worry about that. Shidou
comes first.

Start digging. You'll want to
make a portal where the rope is.
Any spot on the rope is fine, so
long as you can see it. Go to
the items menu and use the
clippers. If there's no rope,
Shiro can run away, which will
greatly increase his chances of
survival. Close the portal.

Horou is still behind the
counter of Aeon, but Goshima is
nowhere to be seen. The shop
owner will come in back and ask
if Horou is done looking. In
this timeline Horou used the
furniture in back as an excuse
to look around, so the shop
owner thinks he's interested.
Horou says he doesn't need
anything right now, but the shop
owner hands over his business
card anyway in case he changes
his mind. Written on the card is
the shopkeeper's name,
Ichiyanagi. Ichiyanagi says
he'll be getting in some new
items from the same people that
made the furniture in back soon,
so he requests Horou's number so
he can call when it comes in.
Since Ichiyanagi was nice enough
to let him behind the counter in
the first place, Horou plays
along.

Return to the map screen and
head to Chronos. Go inside.
Everyone seems happy, but
Goshima's not around. By this
time, Shidou has now taken Shiro
in as his own dog. Even though
Horou just got there, they all
go outside. There, Goshima can
be seen wearing some new threads
and walk- ing Shiro around. It
would seem that the one who
really changed as a result of
Shiro's past death was Goshima.
In this timeline he has quit
high school to walk people's
pets. He has no memory of his
earlier request to Horou. Now
Goshima is working this part-
time job so that he can pay for
the expenses of going to a pet
care school.

Everyone else has gone home, but
before Horou can do the same he
is approached by Junibayashi.
She asks how his correction went
this time. Horou thinks it went
well, but some of the changes
are bothering him. Junibayashi
reassures Horou that no one has
memories of their 'other' pasts.
It's at this point that
Junibayashi will ask Horou to
start calling her Kanon, so I'm
going to do the same. Hope
that's not too confusing...
but... they're friends now,
right?

Kanon (Junibayashi) reminds
Horou that even though she does
not hold a pen herself, she does
know others. For example,
Horou's father. Horou demands to
know if he's alive, but all
Kanon can say is that it's been
a long time since she's seen
him. She has no idea where he is
now, same as Horou. Kanon wants
to know where Horou got his pen.
All Horou knows is that the
letter in the dumpster was from
his father, and that the letter
said the Pen has been passed
down through his family for
genera- tions. This gives Horou
the idea of asking his uncle
about the Pen. He's part of the
family, so maybe he knows
something. He returns to his
room and resolves to ask about
it tomorrow. Unfortunately,
getting Tamotsu involved will
trigger some all new events...

 CHAPTER FOUR: THE DAY FAR AWAY 
*-------------------------------
As usual, Tamotsu and Horou
share some coffee in the
morning. Unlike the other days
though, Horou has some questions
about the Hollow Pen to ask.
You'll have to ask each question
twice, so let's start with the
first.

- Do you know of an some item pa
The first time Tamotsu just
chides Horou on letting his
coffee get cold. Asking the
second time doesn't yield much
better results. He's never heard
of such a thing.

- Have you heard of the Hollow P
Horou tries to show Tamotsu the
Hollow Pen, but he can's see it.
Once again, asking a second time
will produce nothing. Tamotsu
has never heard of the Hollow
Pen, and that's all he has to
say on the subject.

Even in this timeline, Tamotsu
doesn't think highly of Wataru,
Horou's father. When Horou tries
to explain that the reason he
was asking these weird questions
is because he thought that maybe
his father's dis- appearance had
something to do with a family
legacy, Tamotsu just says it's
not related. He thinks that
Wataru was way too nosy and
that's why he got in trouble.

But in a surprising show of
helpfulness, Tamotsu has
something to add. Around the
time Horou was born, his parents
began researching info on a
traffic accident that occured
around the time of Horou was
born. The mother of one of
Tamotsu's classmates,
Ichiyanagi, died in this
accident. The thing is, Horou's
parents disappeared just as they
had solved the mystery
surrounding the traffic
incident. Tamotsu thinks this
has more to do with Wataru and
Aki's disappearance than Horou's
'family legacy' idea.

Suddenly, Horou remembers
something important. The boy
who's mother died in the
accident Tamotsu is describing
is the same guy who now owns the
antique shop. What's more, he
said something strange earlier.
For some reason, Ichiyanagi
mentioned two girls stopping by
his shop to buy a clock for a
schoolmate, most likely Horou.
However, this past has been
erased. Ichiyanagi shouldn't
have had memories of that
incident! Something strange is
definately going on here.

Just to be sure, go upstairs to
make sure Horou isn't in
possession of the clock. Examine
the cookies. If those are the
present, that means the clock
was indeed never purchased. Go
back downstairs. Tamotsu isn't
happy with Horou running around
trying to solve his problems
alone, so Horou shows
Ichiyanagi's business card from
earlier to Tamotsu. Seeing this,
Tamotsu immediately decides to
head out. He wants to talk to
Ichiyanagi, but says that Horou
can't tag along. He has
something important to ask.
Wonder what it could be? Before
he leaves, Tamotsu rushes into
his office.

Try to either go upstairs or
leave the house and Horou will
notice that Tamotsu's office
door is open. He left in such a
hurry that he finally forgot to
lock it. There might be some
information on Horou's parents
in there, so go inside.

Looking at things from right to
left, first examine the bookcase
with a series of large blue and
white albums. Horou will pull
out a scrapbook that once
belonged to his father. It
doesn't look very used, but
there is a date written where an
article was once printed. May
23rd, 35 years ago. This article
may relate to the accident that
Horou's parents were looking
into. There may be someplace you
can research that article, so
keep it in mind.

Now examine the bottom drawers
of that same bookcase. There's a
memo. "When the successor turns
seventeen, the Pen's ownership
shall change. The reason for
this is may be because the Pen
needs the owner's time to
function. The same person cannot
use the Pen forever." The memo
is written in Wataru's
handwriting. Horou begins to
think that when his father says
the pen utilized the holder's
time, he must be referring to
their life. After all, both his
father and even Ichiyanagi look
older than they really should.

Next, take a quick peek at
Tamotsu's desk. There's a key in
the middle, so go ahead and pick
that up. With that key you can
open the gray cabinet in the
middle of the room. Inside is an
old yearbook from Tamotsu's high
school. Tamotsu said that he and
Ichiyanagi were class- mates, so
it's no surprise to find the two
of them in there. However,
there's a third face that might
come as a shock: Kanon
Junibayashi. At first Horou
thinks it may be her mother, but
changes his mind when he sees
the name and takes a closer look
at her face. She's exactly the
same as the current Kanon in
every way. Just another thing
that'll have to be looked
into... Suddenly something falls
out of the yearbook. It's a
small hourglass, which Horou
thinks looks rather familiar.

There are just two more things
to look at. Examine the pink
item on the desk. It's a cell
phone. You can't take it now,
but it might come up again
later. Finally, examine the
bookcase on the far left. It
used to belong to Horou's
father. That's all there is to
see here, so return to the
dining room.

Horou will receive some new
flashbacks. They don't see to be
about any- thing relevant to
Horou right now, but it's hard
to tell with so little
information. For starters, let's
look into the date that was
written on the scrapbook. Go to
the library. The usual
librarian, Tokura, isn't there
yet though. Talk to him. He's
new to the job and not very
help- ful. He says Tokura will
be around soon though.

In the meantime, go to the
intersection. Goshima is hawking
his pet walking services to
Tokura. Afterwards, they both
head their seperate ways. Tokura
was probably on her way to work,
so we can go back to the library
now. She is indeed there, so go
ahead and ask her about the
article. You'll want to make a
search by:

* Date *
- Incident

She'll hand you a printout. The
missing article was about a bus
accident that occured at around
10:25 on August 23rd. According
to the article, the bus hit a
guard rail on a steep hill and
caught on fire. The driver and
Ichiyanagi's mother, Naoko,
died. Ichiyanagi was also in the
bus but escaped with light
injuries. The flashback of the
bus must be an image of this
very accident, but what does it
mean? Why see it now? And why
was Wataru researching it? It
brings up a lot of quest- ions.
Horou now gets some more
flashbacks, but they're the same
as before. Is someone attempting
to change the past?

Return to the map screen. There
is a new location just to the
north- west of Horou's high
school. This is the area where
the bus accident occured, Tokiwa
Hill. Go there. Right away,
Horou's Pen will glow. Something
must be changed here, so enter
into digging.

At the time of the flashback
Naoko, Ichiyanagi's mother, may
still be alive. Make a portal
around the smashed windows at
the front of the bus. Click on
any of them and use the talk
option to make Horou call out to
Naoko. She's fine. Time has not
stopped for her, so she must
hold a Pen herself. Horou tells
her to get out of the bus so she
won't die. She does as she's
told and runs away, so go ahead
and close the portal.

The new flashbacks are the same,
and now Ichiyanagi has taken
notice. Ichiyanagi and Tokio are
talking about how they just got
back from Tokiwa Hill, so
Ichiyanagi must've done tried to
do something in the past, which
is why Horou got flashbacks of
the bus in the first place.
Anyway, Tamotsu wants to know if
Ichiyanagi knows his brother,
Wataru. He claims that he
doesn't. Next Tamotsu asks if he
knows Kanon. Once again
Ichiyanagi will claim innocence,
but not before making a face
that tells he's lying. Tamotsu
chooses not to pursue it though,
and leaves.

On his way out, he sees Kanon.
She seems just as shocked to see
Tamotsu as he is to see her, and
they definately know eachother.
Before Tamotsu can really say
anything though, Ichiyanagi
angrily pulls Kanon inside his
shop. Before he closes the door,
he cryptically says that it
doesn't matter whether Tamotsu's
seen Kanon or not, because he'll
forget it ever happened soon
enough.

Back at Tokiwa Hill, Horou is
wondering why nothing changed in
his flashbacks. Just to make
sure, he wants to go back to the
library and check the news
article again. Horou will
automatically ask Tokura about
the incident. Once again she
hands him a printout. Of course,
it is exactly the same as the
last one. Naoko still dies, and
Horou wants to find out why. Go
back to Tokiwa Hill.

Do the same as last time by
creating a hollow around the
crushed windows at the front of
the bus and selecting the speak
option. Horou will call out to
Naoko once again. Not much
changes about their conver-
sation in that Horou still tells
her to run away from the bus.
Close the portal. Even after
escaping from the bus a second
time, the flash- backs remain
the same and Naoko still dies in
the crash.

Cut to Aeon. Ichiyanagi and
Kanon are seeing the same
flashbacks over and over again,
same as Horou. They know he's up
to something. We also find out
that Ichiyanagi is making Kanon
spy on Horou, and that she is
not to meet up with Tamotsu.
Hmm, wonder why that is?

Horou needs to go home to think
about his predicament, so go
back to his house. Once inside,
Horou will ask Tamotsu how his
meeting with Ichiyanagi went.
Tamotsu says he didn't have any
luck, even when he asked about
Horou's parents. Looking tired
and a little angry, Tamotsu goes
to bed. Horou decides that he's
tired too, but knowing that his
uncle is sleeping makes him
think he can go to Aeon now. All
that you'll find out by going
over there is that the door is
closed and you can't get in, but
do it anyway.

Head back home. Ninomiya is
standing outside, so speak to
him. He'll ask how Tamotsu's
doing, since he was his homeroom
teacher as well. Then he makes a
joke that Horou doesn't
especially appreciate about how
Tamotsu's grades were good...
"unlike yours." Aaaw. He'll say
that they used to exchange
letters on occassion after
Tamotsu graduated, too. He's
about to hit Horou with another
language problem, but decides
it's late so let's it go. Now
you can go inside and up to
Horou's room. After considering
Naoko for a moment, he goes to
sleep.

Horou wakes up the next morning
almost as tired as he went to
bed last night. He thinks that
perhaps he's been using the Pen
too much, and it's taking its
toll on him. At any rate, today
is a school day, so go to the
high school. Once on campus,
Horou will run into Kanon. He'll
start to ask her about
yesterday, and the possibility
of an unchangable past, but
Kanon beats him to it. She wants
to know if Horou is the one who
is killing Naoko. Horou tries to
explain that he was trying to
help her, but Kanon thinks he's
lying since she saw the same
flashback over and over. She
eventually starts to see things
his way, but before Horou can
completely erase her doubts,
Waori and Kuri come over. They
decide to continue their
conversation after school.
Kuri's crying, but that will
have to be saved for later too,
since class is about to start.

Outside the classroom after
school, Kanon and Horou continue
their talk. Kanon suggests that
if what Horou is saying is true,
he might want to try the same
method that was used to save her
own life. When she was in
trouble, she was pulled from the
past into the present through
the portal. However, she goes on
to explain that doing so causes
problems. For example, ever
since being pulled through the
portal, Kanon has been seperated
from the flow of time. The
meaning of that statement
remains unclear for the time
being. Next Horou asks if the
one who pulled Kanon through the
portal was Ichiyanagi, but it
wasn't. Just as she's about to
tell him who really pulled her
through, some new flashbacks
occur.

Horou is back in his bedroom,
which looks a little different.
Examine the new flashbacks and
then head downstairs. Of course,
Tamotsu is no- where to be
found. Is this the work of
Ichiyanagi? But why? Go to
Chronos to meet up with Kanon. A
close-up of Chronos' sign board
will be displayed. Look
familiar?

Kanon will beg you to help
Tamotsu. She seems to be very
invested in this. Horou will ask
if she wants to go inside, and
she accepts. Once inside examine
all the people, the table, the
counter, etc. Rokujou will
eventually notice that you're
looking antsy, and Horou will
think about how no one is
around. It would seem that in
this timeline, Chronos isn't a
usual meeting spot for Horou and
his friends. Horou finally gets
to the point, and asks if
Rokujou knows Tamotsu. Once she
learns that Tamotsu is Horou's
uncle, she feels that Horou has
a right to know everything that
she does.

- Do you know anything about my 
Rokujou says that Tamotsu was
the one who built this cafe. It
origin- ally opened fourteen
years ago on May 1st. However,
the cafe did poor- ly. It was
even said that someone had tried
to bar the place from open- ing.
The first day, not even one
customer came. To open his shop
he took out a loan with some bad
people, but was somehow able to
pay them off by selling his
shop. After that, he came into
his freelance investigation
work.

- About Tamotsu's death.
He was killed two years after
selling the cafe. Rokujou's
heard that his death had nothing
to do with the shop, but she
doesn't know who actually killed
him either. He had, however,
gone into debt again.

Ask both questions a second
time. No new information will
come up. Horou thanks Rokujou
for her time, but before she can
leave Kanon has a question of
her own. She wants to know why
the shop is called 'Chronos.'
Chronos is the God of Time.
Rokujou liked the name that
Tamotsu originally gave the
shop, so she just kept it that
way. That was all Kanon wanted
to know. Horou and Kanon exit
the cafe together. Kanon asks
Horou to save Tamotsu one last
time, and then leaves.

Now Horou needs to gather more
information if he wants to save
his uncle. Since some of the
details of the murder have been
cleared up by Rokujou, we can
now go to the library and
research an article. Talk to
Tokura and search for an article
by:

- Date
* Incident *

Horou's new printout says that
the body was discovered at 10:35
on December 5th, twelve years
ago. They were unable to arrest
any suspects. The article goes
on to say that Tamotsu was busy
investigating the bus accident
where Naoko died. So now we know
what he was looking into... and
there's nothing written about
his debts, which means they
probably weren't relevant to his
murder. Lastly, the article
notes that Tamotsu was holding a
memo in his hand.

Horou wants to know what was
written on that memo, but to do
so he'll have to visit the town
where the murder took place.
It's nearby, so head to the
train station. Shidou is there.
If you talk to him, he'll spout
on about a pretty girl he saw
recently. That's all. He leaves.
Examine the ticket gates. Some
options will come up. Select the
top one to leave for Tamotsu's
murder scene.

Once there, the Pen will glow.
If you look at the body, you'll
see a small outshoot on the top
right. That's where Tamotsu's
arm is, which means you can
reach the memo he was holding
from there. Draw a portal in
that area and examine the
aforementioned bump on the tarp.
Doing so will allow Horou to
reach through the portal and...
grab the memo... (Yech.) Anyway,
remember when Horou decided to
play nice and give his contact
information to the 'kindly'
antique shop owner? Well, that's
come back to haunt Horou, as the
memo in Tamotsu's hands was that
very note. Close the portal.

Of course taking the memo won't
do much to change the present,
but Horou is placed back in
front of the station. Go back to
Horou's lonely little house.
Horou will have a thought.
Perhaps, if Tamotsu never became
a freelance journalist, he
wouldn't have started investi-
gating the bus accident, and as
a result wouldn't have been
killed. He resolves to think
further on this tomorrow.

The next day, after class, Horou
talks to Motoki and Shidou.
Horou wants to know what it
takes to make a cafe a success.
Talk to Mihara and he will
suggest free refills. When you
talk to Shidou, he of course
answers that there has to be
pretty girls working there. Just
as a note, the more you talk to
Shidou right now, the more
fanservice-y Yagi will dress
later. Haha. Anyway, at this
point Horou's thought is that he
can give this note to Tamotsu in
the flashback where he's sitting
alone in Chronos. But in order
for this to go well, we'll need
to gather some more suggestions
first.

Talk to Ninomiya on your way out
of the school, but he doesn't
have any ideas to add to the
memo. Go to Chronos, but do NOT
start digging, even though the
pen already lights up here.
Instead, cancel that action and
speak with Nanasawa. He'll say
that he comes to this cafe
because of the current owner,
Rokujou. He likes to see working
women and simply can't relax in
a store run solely by men. Horou
will add this to his note. You
don't need to talk to Rokujou,
so go ahead and leave the shop.

Go to the inner section of the
park, where you'll find Goshima
standing around. Ask him about
the cafe, and he'll say he needs
a good, quiet atmosphere where
he can study. Horou adds this to
the note. Now go to the library.
Shidou is standing around
inside, so talk to him. The only
reason he's in the library is to
drool over Tokura. This will
cause Horou to emphasize the
'pretty girls' portion of his
memo.

The memo's ready to go now!
Return to Chronos, and this time
go ahead and enter into the
digging process. Make a portal
at the counter where Tamotsu is
sitting, and examine the surface
just to the left of his arm.
Select 'item' in the menu and
then the memo to leave it on the
counter where Tamotsu will see
it. Close the portal. Taking a
quick look at the flashbacks, it
looks like Tamotsu's back and
the shop is flourishing. Job
well done! Tamotsu seems a lot
happier than before, too. We
also get to discover the root of
Tamotsu's old hatred for Wataru.
While Wataru was still alive, he
told Tamotsu that his cafe would
never work out, and it killed
Tamotsu inside when he turned
out to be right. However, in
this timeline, that's not the
case at all. Tamotsu even
believes the memo from Horou was
actually from Wataru, leading
him to believe that his big
brother really wanted him to
succeed all along. Aaaw!

Horou will head home on his own.
There's something new on his
bed, so go ahead and examine it.
It looks similar to Follow, only
bigger. There's a note attached:
"Horou, sorry I'm late! Happy
birthday!! I forgot about your
birthday until I heard about it
from the Miharas. Sorry I
couldn't get you something
better, but happy 17th!
-Tamotsu" See? Despite all his
rough talk, Tamotsu's really a
good person after all.

Horou recieves a phone call.
It's from Ichiyanagi. He ignores
Horou's demands to know why he
killed Tamotsu in the 'past,'
and merely states that he'll be
at Tokiwa Hill tomorrow morning
at 6:00. He then warns Horou
that if he doesn't meet him
there, something else bad will
happen to one of Horou's loved
ones and hangs up. Better make
sure to be there tomorrow.

 CHAPTER FIVE: THE DAY OF RESOLU
*-------------------------------
First thing in the morning,
Horou goes to Tokiwa Hill as he
was told. Ichiyanagi gets right
to the point. He wants to know
why Horou kills his mother over
and over again. Horou of course
know better, and tries to say
it's not him. But Ichiyanagi's
tried to save his mother by mak-
ing her get off the bus too, to
no avail. So he's come to the
conclu- sion that someone must
be killing her, and that someone
must be the only other person
with a Hollow Pen, Horou, and
before him, Wataru. He thinks
that the two sent letters to his
mother, telling her to ride that
bus. He even had evidence, up
until yesterday. When Tamotsu
was still working as a freelance
writer (and not a cafe owner as
he is now), he discovered such a
letter. But since Tamotsu isn't
a writer anymore, he never
researched the bus accident, and
that evidence is now gone.
Perhaps Naoko really was called
out to that bus, but if it
wasn't Ichiyanagi or Horou, then
who?

Not wanting to be hurt by the
repeated death of his mother
anymore, Ichiyanagi sets out to
get rid of what he thinks to be
the source. He takes out a
dagger and runs at Horou. Then,
just in the nick of time,
Tamotsu arrives. When he saw
Horou leaving the house so early
with a strange expression on his
face, he got worried and
followed him here. Looks like he
was right to do so. Behind
Ichiyanagi is a cliff, so he
really has nowhere to run.
Tamotsu calls the police, and
Ichiyanagi laments at how
killing Tamotsu just wasn't
enough. So he finally admits
clearly that he's the one who's
been causing all of Horou's
tragedies. He considered it a
fair return for the death of his
mother.

Now, Ichiyanagi's had enough. He
takes out his Pen and says this
is the only way left to him to
save his mother. Just as
Ichiyanagi's about to go through
with whatever his plan is, Kanon
arrives. She knows what he's
thinking. Ichiyanagi wants to go
to the other side of the portal
himself, and she tries to
convince him that it's a bad
idea. It's too late though. His
mind is set, and he walks
through to the other side.

Horou's back in his bedroom. He
gets a phone call from Kanon.
She wants Horou to meet her
'where Aeon was.' Go downstairs.
Tamotsu is fine, but when Horou
asks if it's OK for him to get
some coffee later, Tamotsu gets
angry. In this timeline Tamotsu
is a journalist again. Oh well.
Go to the map screen and head to
the place where Aeon was, which
is now just a vacant lot,
essentially unchanged from when
Horou and his friends built the
secret base as kids. Talk to
Kanon.

She feels like she needs to
apologize about Ichiyanagi. When
she was sixteen, Kanon was
pulled through a portal by
Horou's father, Wataru. She was
about to fall from the school's
roof to her death, and Wataru
could think of no other way to
save her. He told Kanon that if
they could find a way to save
her she would return to normal,
but he was never able to do so.
He disappeared before he was
able to keep his promise to
Kanon, so she simply had to wait
for the Pen to change hands. The
entire time, she never visually
aged past sixteen years old.
Eventually though, Ichiyanagi
took notice of Kanon. He
promised that he could help her,
since the Tokio family couldn't.
Wanting her real life back,
Kanon agreed to do whatever
Ichiyanagi wanted. But by now
she's realized that he was just
using her to spy on Horou, and
that he never really intended to
help. Horou feels bad for her,
having been in this predicament
the whole twelve years since she
was 'saved.' He wants to help
her, but this time for real.

First things first though.
Ichiyanagi walked through a
portal to a place 35 years in
the past, so he's had a lot of
time to change things. Some
things are immediately
recognizable as having stayed
the same: Horou's parents are
gone, Kanon's still around, and
Tamotsu is a free- lance
journalist. But as they are
discussing this, Kanon notices a
burn mark on Horou's hand. Horou
will 'remember' that this
happened when as he tried to run
from the fire that burned down
the boys' secret base. However,
he doesn't remember whether
everyone else escaped or not.
Horou suggests that he and Kanon
go to school, since if they
hurry they can still make it on
time. Kanon can't go, though.
The one who enrolled her in Kako
High School (around Horou's
time) was Ichiyanagi, but since
he hasn't been around to build
Aeon, that 'present' is gone.
Kanon decides to investigate
around town to check for changes
while Horou goes to class.

In class Horou sees neither
Motoki, Shidou, nor Goshima.
Instead... in walks Ichiyanagi.
In this timeline, Ichiyanagi's
name is Ninomiya, and he's
Horou's homeroom teacher. What
happened to the real Ninomiya?
Just a little distressed by all
this, Horou runs outside.

Go to the hallways. There, Horou
will look at the lockers. None
of their names are there, just
proving that whatever happened
to them, they certainly don't go
to this school. Go outside and
Horou will see Waori and Kuri.
Try talking to them. Horou will
ask where Motoki is, even though
the answer is probably pretty
obvious by now. Waori natura-
lly gets quite angry at him for
asking where her long-dead
brother is. Try talking to Kuri
and she to will walk away
without a word.

You'll be brought out to the map
screen. Horou wants to
investigate this fire to find
out what really went on, so as
is always the case in these
kinds of situations, go to the
library. Talk to Tokura and
request to make a back number
newspaper search by...

- Date
* Incident *

As always, Tokura hands Horou a
printout. This fire was no
accident; it was arson. I think
you know who's to blame here.
Now that Horou has the date and
some more info thanks to the
article, go to the vacant lot
where Aeon used to be. Once
there, click on the area around
the tree to move one screen
further in. The Pen will light
up. Believe it or not there's
actually nothing else to collect
first, so go ahead and enter
into digging. Make a portal
around the base of the wooden
ladder, and touch the area where
the fire is. From the menu,
choose examine. Horou will
extinguish the flame, so you can
close the portal.

All right! Looking at the
flashbacks, it would seem that
everyone's back! Anyway, now
Horou's back at school. Before
he even has time to think about
what's changed, he's approached
by 'Ninomiya.' Ninomiya
congratulates Horou on bringing
back his friends. Horou answers
back wondering why Ninomiya
would thank him when he's the
one who killed them in the first
place. Ninomiya replies that it
wasn't him at all, it was
Ichiyanagi. Kanon arrives. They
explain that Ichiyanagi no
longer exists, just this version
of Ninomiya. To explain how this
could be, Ninomiya presents an
example. If you had $1,000,000
and you opened a time portal to
put that money five seconds in
the past, what would happen?

- $2,000,000 would appear before
* You would still have $1,000,00
- I don't know

The answer is the second choice,
you would still have $1,000,000.
This is because the $1,000,000
that you sent into the past
would disappear once the present
came. You would only have
$2,000,000 for the five seconds
up until the present. After
that, the $1,000,000 you sent
into the past ceases to exist,
because it's in the past. Kind
of a difficult concept, but yes,
that's what happened with
Ichiyanagi and Ninomiya.
Ichiyanagi and Ninomiya existed
at the same time for these past
35 years, but when it came to be
the time that Ichiyanagi
originally stepped into the
portal he ceased to exist,
leaving only Ninomiya. He then
goes on to explain how he came
to be Ninomiya, and all he can
say is that he didn't want to
become Ichiyanagi so he did
something bad to the original
Ninomiya. A little vague, and
how this happened smooth- ly I
haven't the slightest clue, but
there you have it. Ninomiya
didn't want to become Ichiyanagi
because he thinks that two of
someone is one too many.
Besides, he thinks he's better
than Ichiyanagi. He plans to
succeed where Ichiyanagi failed.
Ichiyanagi wasn't even able to
save his mother, despite having
gone to the very time of the
accident. And Ninomiya still
thinks Horou is the cause. So
really, not much has changed at
all, just that this version is a
little more prepared and a
little more evil. He walks away.

In the meantime, while things
are still calm, Horou wants to
check up on his friends to make
sure they're really OK. Kanon
goes off to conti- nue searching
for changes in this timeline. Go
to Chronos. Talk to both Motoki
and Goshima. They seem to be
talking a bit strangely about
Shi- dou. Oh yeah... all Horou
did was stop the fire at the
secret base, but that fire
occured seven months before the
typhoon. As it stands, Shiro was
never released from the base and
died, so Shidou still got in a
fight with Nanasawa, which in
turn means he must be in the
hospital. But before you can
even think about re-clearing
that incident, Ninomiya has some
new tricks up his sleeve.

Horou sees some flashbacks and
finds himself at the train
station with Shidou and Motoki.
Shidou seems fine, but something
else is clearly going on.
Goshima's dead. He was found
murdered in the classroom with
his neck snapped. Talk either
Motoki or Shidou.

- Who did this?
No one knows.

- When was he killed?
Over ten days ago. Perhaps
Ninomiya used that old flashback
of Goshima sitting alone in the
classroom?

- Where was he killed?
Just to be sure, Horou wants to
know if Goshima was sitting at
his desk. It's hard to them say
though, because he was found on
the floor.

Now ask all the questions one
more time. Nothing new comes
from the first, but on the
second Motoki will give Horou
the date Goshima's body was
found: the morning of May 2nd.
Now re-ask the third question.
Again no new information. Now
the boys will talk about how
they haven't been to Chronos for
a while because they just
haven't been in the mood, which
would explain why Shidou is
unharmed (since the fight he got
into happened outside the cafe).
Not that that matters too much,
because Ninomiya's not done yet.

Horou finds himself in his
bedroom. He gets a phone call
from Shidou, which means he's
fine, but what happened then?
Shidou wants to go to Motoki's
house. Waori and Kuri were both
found beaten to death a while
ago, and Shidou wants to make
sure Motoki's doing OK. Ninomiya
must have used the flashback of
the two girls meeting outside
Chronos this time.

Go to the Mihara househould.
Talk to both Motoki and Shidou.
As expected, Motoki's pretty
down. There's nothing you can do
to help him by simply hanging
around here, so head to the
vacant lot. There'll be a
detective standing in between
two police officers. Talk to
him. He's reluctant to tell
Horou what he's doing there, but
lets it slip that he's found
some evidence relating to the
recent murders. He won't say any
more than that, so go to school
and proceed to the lockers area.
Talk to the boy going down the
hall there.

- Do you know Waori Mihara?
They were in the same class
together. He's heard about her
murder.

- When was the last time you saw
He says the last time he saw her
was after school on the day she
was killed, at around 4:30. She
was looking at something.

- What was Waori looking at?
An envelope.

That's all this boy knows, so he
leaves. Now that you've got the
info you need on the flashback
of Waori at the lockers, confirm
it to get the Pen to light up.
Make a portal around Waori's
locker and select it. Choose
examine from the menu. Since
that's the envelope containing
Horou's birthday present money,
he decides to write on it,
"Don't go to Chronos. There's
been a suspicious person hanging
around there so it's dangerous
right now. Tell Kuri, too."
Close the portal.

Horou is in his bedroom. Just
looking at the flashbacks it
would seem that Waori and Kuri
were fine, but Ninomiya has
other plans. So what did he do
this time? First go to Motoki's
house to check on Waori. He
still looks depressed. Talk to
him. Motoki doesn't want to
believe it, but there's now
evidence pointing to Horou as
being the one who killed Goshima
and Waori. In Waori's case the
evidence says he called her out
to Chronos and killed her there.
Motoki informs Horou that if he
shows up at his house one more
time, he'll call the police.

Horou's really in trouble this
time. There's police waiting to
arrest him at almost every
location. You don't have to
worry about it actually
happening because Horou will
always run away fast enough, but
it's still a hindrance to doing
anything about the past. Go to
the library, the one place
that's safe for now. Kuri is
standing there alone, so speak
with her. She, too, believes
that Horou killed Waori. She
yells for help and begs Horou
not to kill her, but calms down
enough to answer a question when
Horou promises not to come any
closer. He wants to know if
Waori had her cell phone that
day. Of course Waori had dropped
it earlier, so she still didn't
have it. Kuri runs away.

Go to the vacant lot and speak
with the detective. He'll
confirm that the evidence
they're using againt Horou is
the note he wrote on Waori's
envelope. The detective will
recognize Horou and try to
arrest him, so Horou runs away.
Now go to the school. If you've
done everything else the police
should be gone, leaving only
Kanon. Horou's losing hope that
he'll be able to do anything
this time, but Kanon hardens his
resolve by saying he can't just
leave Goshima, Waori, and the
original Ninomiya as they are.
They set off together to think
their plan of action. At the
lockers, they discuss the
envelope and Horou's note. They
have to think of a way to make
sure the girls really don't go
to Chronos. How- ever, Waori
dropped her phone, so they
couldn't have called her. Horou
suddenly remembers something.
Didn't Tamotsu have a rather
pink cell phone in his office?
It couldn't be his...

Kanon agrees to go to Horou's
house and distract the police
while Horou sneaks inside.
There, Tamotsu is waiting. He
was called by the police and
told the situation as they see
it. Luckily Tamotsu decides to
believe in Horou on his word
alone, even with no explanation!
See, Tamotsu really is a nice
guy. Horou goes on to ask if
Tamotsu has seen a pink cell
phone around. Tamotsu says that
he has, but grows suspicous that
Horou would suspect he would be
able to help find that cell
phone. Horou decides to tell the
truth in return for his uncle's
kindness, and admits that he
snuck into Tamotsu's office.
Again showing how kind he can
be, Tamotsu decides to deal with
Horou's intrusion later and for
now simply gets him the cell
phone.

Horou meets up with Kanon
outside. Return to the school.
Enter digging and create a
portal around Waori's open
locker. Click on it and use the
cell phone from the item menu.
Horou modifies what he wrote on
the envelope a little. Instead
of just saying to avoid Chronos,
he also notes that Waori should
call Kuri and the two of them
should meet at one of their
houses. Close the portal. Looks
good!

Horou is at the station and
immediately recieves a call from
Kanon. It looks like the girls
are okay, but Horou will have to
check to be sure. And besides,
Goshima still needs to be saved.
Let's focus on him. Re- member
how when Shiro was saved from
the typhoon, Goshima dropped out
of school? If we could make that
happen again then he wouldn't be
in class, which would in turn
mean that Ninomiya couldn't kill
him. Go to the vacant lot. Of
course the pen will light up, so
start digging. Same as last
time, select the rope that ties
Shiro to the ladder. From the
menu select item, and then the
clippers. Close the portal.
Better for Goshima to be a high
school drop-out than dead.

Afterwards Horou finds himself
in Chronos with Shidou and
Motoki, where he receives a call
from Kanon. Goshima is probably
fine, but that doesn't mean
their problems are over.
Ninomiya is still running around
with his own pen, probably
plotting his next move already.
After gett- ing some prodding
from Shidou and Motoki for
talking with a girl, Horou takes
his leave to search for Goshima.
Lucky for him, he's right out-
side. They have a nice chat and
Goshima leaves to continue
walking Shiro. Next Ninomiya
makes his appearance, for a
decidedly less friend- ly chat.
Ninomiya announces that he's
changing his game plan. Horou
begs him to stop but to no
avail. Ninomiya has no qualms
about hurting others to get his
revenge. Laughing all the while,
Ninomiya leaves.

Once you go to the map screen
Horou will mention that he's
tired, so go to his house.
Tamotsu is home early. Horou
decides that this is as good a
time as any to ask him some
questions. You'll have to ask
each ques- tion twice.

- Do you know Ichiyanagi?
Tamotsu does indeed, and demands
to know where Ichiyanagi is
living. However, Aeon is gone,
so Horou takes back his words
and pretends he doesn't really
know Ichiyanagi. Asking a second
time will prompt Tamotsu to
mention that Ichiyanagi was his
classmate.

- Do you know Ninomiya?
All Tamotsu knows is that
Ninomiya is Horou's homeroom
teacher. He doesn't mention
Ninomiya being his own. When you
ask a second time Tamotsu
mentions that his homeroom
teacher's name was also
Ninomiya. They're different
people now though.

- Do you know (Kanon) Junibayash
Tamotsu is shocked by this. He
wants to know how Horou heard
about Kanon. Horou half-lies and
said he saw her in Tamotsu's
high school yearbook. Tamotsu's
a little mad that Horou went
into his office (in this
timeline he didn't know that
already), but is kind of proud
that his nephew took notice of
that particular girl. Still,
whatever happened, it was a long
time ago and he doesn't want to
talk about it.

Once you've asked each question
twice, Ninomiya will appear on
the screen in front of the train
station, holding a letter. It's
an invitation of some type, but
for what and to whom remains
unclear. Back in the Tokio
household, Horou has a favor to
ask of Tamotsu. He knows that
Tamotsu has been investigating
the bus accident from 35 years
ago, and wants to see the letter
that the victim, Naoko, was
holding. Again Tamotsu is a
little shocked that Horou knows
all this, but goes to get the
letter anyway. The letter is
addressed to Naoko herself, and
says to ride a certain bus at a
certain time to meet with
Wataru. Who sent this letter,
and why does it mention Wataru?

Here we see Ninomiya again. He
has opened up a portal to send
his invitation, which must mean
he's sending it to someone in
the past. We find what happened
soon enough, as in the new
flashbacks Tamotsu can be seen
trapped in a burning building.
Looks like this calls for
another trip to the library.
Kanon is already inside waiting.
She too seems to have a deep
investment in the fate of
Tamotsu, so she's already
researched the article. In this
case, Tamotsu died on April 5th
twelve years ago in a restaurant
gas explosion. He was the only
casualty. This happened at a
restaurant called Eterna. Kanon
remembers the original
explosion, but in her timeline
there were no deaths. The letter
that Ninomiya sent must've been
addressed to Tamotsu, telling
him to go there.

Eterna will appear as a new
location on your map, right
above the train station. Go
there. Horou can't help his
uncle from anywhere but here.
Compared to Ninomiya, he has far
less flashbacks since he's only
had the pen for such a short
time. The conversation will end,
but talk to Kanon again because
she has an idea. Kanon says that
she'll go to the other side of
the portal, just like Ichiyanagi
did. On the other side, she'll
push the frozen Tamotsu far away
from the explosion. Kanon is
already seperated from time, so
the risk is much less for her.
Horou's still a little
skeptical, but when he sees
Kanon's desperation he finally
agrees to let her do it.

The pen will now glow. Open a
portal around Tamotsu, and
select him. From there choose to
'look' at him. Kanon will now
head over to the other side.
Even though he surely must be
heavy, Kanon pushes Tamotsu all
the way to the side street
behind the main intersection. We
then see her slip a note into
Tamotsu's pocket. Even though he
can't hear her, she promises him
that they'll meet again. She now
heads back to the portal to
return to the present. Close the
portal.

In the new flashbacks Tamotsu is
back in his old spot at the
dining room table. This time
though, Wataru and Aki can be
seen in one of the flashbacks,
and the place looks an awful lot
like Eterna. It must be the same
explosion too, only they are
inside the store instead of out-
side. This is good because now
Horou can help them right away!
Confirm the new flashbacks from
the menu screen. Once that is
done, the Hollow Pen will
activate.

Try to use it though, and
Ninomiya will appear from behind
with a knife. He quickly stabs
Horou in the leg. As Kanon tries
to protect Horou, Ninomiya
laughs at her and kicks her a
few times. He seems to dislike
her for some personal reason, as
he mentions something about her
ignoring him despite 'knowing
how he feels.' Hmm. Anyway, just
as Ninomiya is about to stomp
her again, Tamotsu shows up to
help. Tamotsu read Kanon's
letter. It said to meet her in
this spot. He kept that letter
for twelve years and actually
followed it. He's a little
surprised to see that Kanon
hasn't aged, but knows that
explanation will have to wait.

Horou calls Kanon over to him.
He's weak and needs her help to
use the Pen. Tamotsu will hold
off Ninomiya, so agree to enter
into digging to begin. Make a
portal around the door of
Eterna. From the menu, choose
speak. As Eterna explodes, time
stops. Horou calls out to his
father, who can still move since
he also posseses the Pen. Wataru
decides to take Aki and walk
through the portal Horou
created. On the other side
there's some quick catch-up done
on who's who and 'when' they are
at. Close the portal.

Now that Aki can move again,
some quick explanations have to
be given to her too. It's here
that Horou notices that his pen
is gone. It's okay though,
because Wataru has it. With him
in the future, he hasn't yet
passed his Pen on to Horou. Or
so he thinks. When Wataru checks
his jacket pocket, the pen isn't
there either. Ninomiya explains
that one who has seperated
themselves from time no longer
has the requirements necessary
to hold a Pen. Apparently the
same thing happened to Ichiya-
nagi. Now that Wataru is no
longer a threat, Ninomiya feels
that all he has to do is
eliminate Horou to save his
mother.

Ninomiya escapes from Tamotsu's
grip and runs at Horou with the
intent to kill. However, Kanon
shields him and she is hit
instead. Before she disappears,
she promises Tamotsu that
everything will be okay, that
Horou will help her. When she's
gone, all that's left behind is
the hourglass pendant she
received from Tamotsu.

Tamotsu is heartbroken, and
Ninomiya is no better. He's
horrified that Kanon sacrificed
herself for Horou, and runs off.
Tamotsu chases after him. In the
meantime, Horou has a little
talk with his parents. Horou
reveals that he can still see
the pen in his father's pocket,
so at least that's okay. After
calling an ambulance, the three
of them go after Ninomiya and
Tamotsu.

Ninomiya is trying to run in the
same way Ichiyanagi did, by
passing through a portal. He's
not worried about this, knowing
that even if he disappears the
next 'Ichiyanagi' will come and
take up where he left off.
However, Horou won't let this
happen. He slams into Ninomiya,
forcing him to drop his Pen as
he falls over the side of the
cliff. Horou grabs Ninomiya's
hand as he begs for help, but
before he can be lifted up, his
glove slips and he falls to the
ocean.

CHAPTER SIX: THE FINAL DAY (4.7)
*-------------------------------
Horou wakes up in a hospital,
presumably having been brought
there by the ambulance his
mother called earlier. He asks
his mom about Ninomi- ya.
Apparantly they haven't found
him yet, but from that height he
probably died. Wataru's not
around because he's busy
explaining every- thing (himself
and Aki, Kanon, etc.) to
Tamotsu.

Aki says the doctor has told her
to make sure Horou relaxes for a
while, and commented that he
looks older than his age...
(Whoops! Too much Hollow Pen.)
Being the mother that she is,
Aki brought Horou some miso soup
she made at home. It's still a
little strange for her to be in
the future, but she's dealing
with it. When Horou tries the
soup, he's quite surprised
because it's actually flavorful.
Remember in the very beginning
when Horou accused his mother of
making bland food? It turns out
that Wataru likes heavy flavors,
but Aki decided to tone it down
for his health (too salty, I
would assume). After consulting
with Horou, she decides that
from now on she'll try to
balance flavor and health
instead of going too far in
either direction.

After a few days have passed,
Horou and his family return
home. Every- one is around the
table discussing the Pen. Horou
is the only one who can use it
now that Wataru is seperated
from time and Ninomiya is pre-
sumably dead. Tamotsu still
can't see it of course, but
seeing a past version of his
brother appear before his eyes,
he knows it must be real. There
are still things to be done,
though. Horou has to return his
parents to the past, and help
Kanon too.

Go into your menu and look at
the flashback of Kanon falling
from the roof. This will cause
Horou to recall that his father
was the one who pulled Kanon
through the time portal. Talk to
Wataru about this.

- When was Kanon's accident?
Wataru has this down to a T.
Kanon fell from the roof at 5:50
PM on October 20th, nineteen
years ago. Wataru didn't pull
her through the portal until
three days later.

- Where did you pull Kanon throu
He pulled her in from classroom
3-B on the third floor of the
high school.

- Why did you pull Kanon through
Wataru did it for Tamotsu's
sake. Three days after Kanon
fell from the roof, Tamotsu hung
himself outside the school
lockers. In order to stop his
brother from committing suicide,
Wataru had to save Kanon.

So the truth comes out. Not only
did Tamotsu love Kanon, but he
actual- ly cared for her enough
to follow her into death when
she died. He may not be pulling
such drastic measures these
days, but Horou still has to
help Kanon. Go to the school.
Motoki is standing outside, and
is glad to see that Horou is out
of the hospital. Proceed inside.
There you will be given the
option to go to room 3-B, so
choose the top option to select
'yes.'

Once in the classroom, enter
into digging. Make a portal
towards the top of the window
and select Kanon. From the menu
choose to look at her. Horou
hasn't thought of a better plan
as of yet, so he simply pulls
Kanon through the portal again.
He figures he can save her from
time seperation later. When
Kanon wakes up, she is very
confused. This Kanon is fresh
from the past, and has not had
the experiences of the previous
version of Kanon. She's still
very confused as to why she
isn't dead, and is a little
untrusting of Horou. However,
once Horou explains that he's a
relative of Tamotsu (who she of
course trusts), she agrees to go
to his house for an explanation
of what's going on.

After bringing the new Kanon up
to date, Wataru begins asking
some questions of her. He wants
to know who pushed her off the
roof. It was very sudden, so she
doesn't really remember. All she
knows is that he was bleeding
from the hands, because she
managed to scratch him when he
tried to grab her at first.
Horou immediately thinks of
'Ichiyanagi,' and the scars he
had hidden under his gloves.

Horou mentions it, and Kanon
agrees that it might've been him
who pushed her. They had
cleaning duty together at school
one time. That was it, but from
that time on, Ichiyanagi was
obsessed. He called Kanon
everyday and even sent her
flowers. Kanon tried to explain
to him that she liked someone
else, but Ichiyanagi wouldn't
give up. Tamotsu then asks why
Kanon didn't tell him this was
happening, and she explains how
she felt like if Ichiyanagi
found out, he would start
targeting Tamotsu as well.
Apparently Ichiyanagi constantly
told Kanon how much she look- ed
like his mother, and how for
that reason he felt she was
important.

Tamotsu finds this last
statement to be a little
strange. Ichiyanagi shouldn't
have known what his mother
looked like, since she died when
he was just a baby. Kanon
disagrees. In her timeline,
Ichiyanagi's mother was still
alive. She even saw Naoko
herself once. At this point,
Horou has to stop and think for
a minute. A selection pops up
which asks, "When did Naoko
Ichiyanagi die?"

- A bus accident 35 years ago
* After Kanon saw her *
- She's still alive

This is still strange though,
because Naoko died pretty soon
after Ichiyanagi was born. So
the next question is, "Why did
Kanon see Naoko?"

* Naoko was still alive *
- She saw a ghost
- She mistook Naoko for someone 

Naoko must've been alive when
Kanon saw her. Which means that
for Naoko to have died in the
past, someone must've interfered
with the time stream. She was
called to that bus accident, in
the same way that Wataru, Aki,
and Tamotsu were called to
Eterna. So the final question
is, "What part of the past
should be fixed?"

- The bus accident 35 years ago
- The fire at the secret base
* The time when Naoko was called

The only answer that makes sense
is the third. But who told her
to ride that bus? The letter
Naoko was holding at the time of
her death told her to ride the
bus to meet with Wataru. Tamotsu
still has that letter in his
possession, so goes to grab it
from his office. Meanwhile,
Wataru apologizes to Aki for the
confusing nature of their
conversa- tion. She doesn't mind
though. She says it reminder her
of a book they bought for Horou
about parallel worlds. It was
called 'The Mystery of Parellel
Worlds.' In other words, 'the
book Goshima read at the secret
base.' Looks like Horou
should've read it himself
instead of carelessly leaving it
lying around!

Tamotsu comes back with the
letter. Horou will need to
figure out when and from who
this letter was sent if he wants
to save Naoko. After all, if he
saves Naoko then Ichiyanagi will
have no reason to seek vengeance
on the Tokio family, and if he's
not seeking revenge he won't try
to kill Wataru and Aki either.
Tamotsu and Kanon will go into
the office to chat, and now
you're free to leave the house.
The only thing you have to go
off right now is the flashback
of the school lockers, so go
there.

Once there, Horou will recall
that Tamotsu went to this school
too. He then thinks that if he
can contact Tamotsu in the past,
that version of Tamotsu may be
able to get in contact with
Naoko. The flashback shows the
version of the past where Kanon
was saved, which is why it
depicts an empty hallway since
Tamotsu's suicide was
'corrected' here. If Horou can
figure out when this took place
and what Tamotsu's locker number
was, he can get in touch with
the Tamotsu of the past. Return
home to investigate.

Horou will automatically start
talking to his father, Wataru.
He will ask when it was that
Tamotsu committed suicide.
Wataru will answer that it was
around 5:00 PM on October 23rd,
nineteen years ago. There's one
answer. Now go into Tamotsu's
office and speak with Tamotsu.
Horou will ask Tamotsu what his
student number was when he was
in high school. It was a long
time ago though, so Tamotsu
doesn't remember. Luckily, Kanon
was very close with Tamotsu and
that time is still fresh for
her. Tamo- tsu's was seat number
15 in class 1-A.

Return to the school. Now that
Horou has all the info he needs,
he can write a memo to past
Tamotsu. It reads, "Please pass
this memo on to Ichiyanagi's
mother. It has something to do
with Junibayashi and is very
important." There's nothing else
to the memo because there
doesn't need to be. Horou just
wants to change the past in a
way that he can see Naoko alive,
and getting a memo passed to her
accomplishes that. Now's it's
time to get this memo to
Tamotsu. The Pen will light up,
so begin digging. Make a portal
towards the upper left-hand
lockers and click on a locker
around that area. From the menu
choose items and then the memo
to Ichiyanagi's mother.
Hopefully Tamotsu will give it
to her.

All that can be seen in the new
flashback is past Tamotsu
reading the letter, but that's
it. He doesn't pass it along. Go
back to the Tokio house to ask
him what happened. Tamotsu
vaguely remembers the memo
because Wataru just asked him
about it (every time Horou
changes the past Wataru will
have to re-do his explanation of
the Hollow Pen and Kanon to
Tamotsu). However, Tamotsu
doesn't remember why he didn't
pass the note along. He figures
he was still to busy thinking
about what happened to Kanon to
listen to some random letter
(since even though she wasn't
dead, she did disappear from
school quite suddenly).

Horou's going to need some ideas
to get himself in the mind of a
high school age Tamotsu. Maybe
his friends can think of
something, so go to Chronos.
Motoki and Shidou are going at
it about some love letter that
Motoki received. Motoki didn't
know who the letter was from, so
he threw it away. Shidou thinks
he was in the wrong though,
stating that if it were him,
he'd keep a love letter from
anyone. Motoki's actions do
indeed give Horou an idea. Horou
asks what Motoki would've done
if the letter had been from
someone he liked. Motoki replies
that he would read it and reply
immediately! Can't ignore a
chance like that! Haha. So,
anyway, Horou now has an idea of
what he needs to do.

There's only one person that
Tamotsu likes in that way, and
that's Kanon. Go back to the
Tamotsu's office and speak with
her. This time Horou asks Kanon
to write the letter herself, and
sign her name at the bottom. The
information is the same, but
since Kanon wrote it Tamotsu
might just listen this time.

Go to the school one more time
and repeat your previous actions
of choosing a locker in the
upper left-hand corner and
selecting the memo from the
items menu. Alright! This time
Horou will not only see Tamotsu
reading the memo, but Naoko as
well. Now he just has to find
out when and where she's reading
it from. The only person who'll
have any idea is Tamotsu
himself, since he's the one who
handed Naoko the memo. Go home
and talk to him. Again, Wataru
has already prodded him on this
a little for Horou, so Tamotsu
recalls the memo pretty quickly.
Tamotsu remembers asking
Ichiyanagi where his mother was
and giving the memo to her the
next day, which would mean he
gave it to her on October 24th.

Knowing the time now means that
there is enough information to
get the Pen working at the train
station. Go there and begin the
digging pro- cess. Create a
portal around Naoko and select
her. Then from the menu, choose
speak. So it's definitely true.
There was once a timeline where
Naoko didn't die when Ichiyanagi
was a baby. For whatever reason,
Naoko remembers meeting Horou on
the bus.

Horou and Naoko discuss
Ichiyanagi, and how he pushed
Kanon from the roof. Naoko knows
this already, and in fact has
more to add. In a time- line
that took place before pushing
Kanon off the roof, Ichiyanagi
stabbed her with a kitchen
knife. Naoko tried hiding the
knife from him, but he just hit
Kanon with a rock instead. No
matter how many times Naoko
tried to stop Ichiyanagi from
killing Kanon, the result was
always the same. He always found
a way.

Naoko has noticed that Kanon is
no longer around, and figures
out for herself that she must be
with Horou in the future.
However, she doesn't feel that
this is enough. Kanon can't want
to stay in the future, but to be
saved in the past would probably
mean she'd be killed by Ichiya-
nagi again as well. She feels
like she has to take
responsibility for her son. That
is why she is sending a note to
herself in the past, pretending
that it's from Wataru, the other
Pen holder, so her past self
will feel it might be important
and actually follow the instruc-
tions. Horou will try to
convince Naoko not to do this,
but she's made up her mind. She
will tell her past self to ride
that bus along with young
Ichiyanagi, and that's final.
She closes the portal from her
side, and once again Kanon's
fall and the bus accident play
themselves out.

Essentially what keeps happening
is that future Naoko commits
suicide with her past self. She
intended to kill Ichiyanagi at
the same time to stop him from
doing those horrible things to
Kanon, but he winds up unharmed.
Horou will have to tell everyone
at home about this, so head over
there. Talk to Wataru and Aki,
and then try entering Tamotsu's
office twice. This will trigger
a conversation with all three.
Now that past events have played
themselves out again, Kanon is
no longer in the present in any
form. However, the situation has
again been explained to Tamotsu,
and he understands that she's
not gone for- ever.

(Note: Don't ask me how it is
that she didn't disappear
everytime she fell from the
window previously. There's a lot
of things I find wrong with this
last part of the game.
Particularly in reference to
this and to Naoko's repeated
suicide. Shhhh. Let's not
question.)

At any rate, there must be some
way to really save Kanon, other
than simply pulling her into the
present yet again. The first
question is, "Why did Naoko
Ichiyanagi commit suicide?"

- Increasingly large debts
* Because Ichiyanagi targeted Ka
- A problem with the Tokio famil

Ichiyanagi was pretty determined
to kill Kanon in any way he
could, so even if Horou can stop
Kanon's fall without bringing
her into the pre- sent, she
still might be in trouble. So
the next question becomes, "How
can I stop Naoko Ichiyanagi from
committing suicide?"

* Make it so Ichiyanagi doesn't 
- Pull Ichiyanagi into the prese
- Pull Naoko into the present

If there was a way to stop
Ichiyanagi from killing Kanon,
Naoko would no longer feel the
need to take such responsibility
for her son's actions. Now
there's just one last thing to
think about. "What would happen
if Naoko Ichiyanagi never
committed suicide?"

- Ichiyanagi and Kanon would bec
* Ichiyanagi wouldn't target the
- Ichiyanagi would be raised as 

Ichiyanagi believed that the
Tokio family were repeatedly
killing his mother on that bus.
If his mother were still alive
he would have no reason to think
that, and therefore no reason to
target the Tokio fami- ly. And
so, "If Ichiyanagi didn't target
the Tokio family..."

* My parents wouldn't be involve

So basically, if the past
version of Ichiyanagi can be
convinced to give up on his aims
to kill Kanon, everyone can be
saved all at once. All Horou has
to do is help Kanon in a way so
that she won't be killed again.
To this end, Tamotsu volunteers
his services. He suggests that
if he's sent to the past, he can
protect Kanon from Ichiyanagi.
He cares deeply about Kanon, and
seems to understand the
consequences. The decision is
made. Go to the school and
proceed to room 3-B.

The family decides that they'll
do this by tossing Tamotsu out
the window right below Kanon.
He'll fall from a lower height
so he may not die himself, and
will also be able to save Kanon
by softening her blow when she
hits the ground. Tamotsu's
prepared to do this, so begin
digging. Create a portal around
Kanon and select her. From the
menu choose items, and then
Tamotsu. Horou and Wataru will
move the frozen Tamotsu to a
position just outside the
window, holding Kanon.

This is Aki's first time seeing
time stand still, and she's a
little in awe. It's just about
time to close the portal and
change everything when... oh
boy... here comes a battered and
bruised Ninomiya, knife in hand.
He doesn't want the past to be
changed in any way that's
benefi- cial to the Tokio
family, so he's going to try to
put a stop to this. Like last
time, he makes Horou priority
one, knowing that he's the only
one capable of using the pen.
However, Wataru blocks his way.
He's stabbed by Ninomiya's knife
and hurt pretty badly, but begs
Horou to close the portal
anyway. After all, if the portal
is closed and the past changes,
none of this will have happened.

Knowing that Horou is about to
close the portal in accordance
with his father's wishes,
Ninomiya makes another run at
him. Wataru and Aki are able to
hold him back, though. Close the
portal. Time to see how the past
is changed. After that's over,
Horou will see a bunch of new
flashbacks and then be at the
dining table with his parents.
And not the young version of his
parents, but his parents as they
should be. To Aki, it feels like
nothing ever happened, but Horou
and Wataru have their little
secret. After all that hard work
Horou's life, and all the lives
around him, are back to the way
they should be.

 EPILOGUE: A NEW DAY DAWNS (4.8)
*-------------------------------
Two days later, Horou recieves a
letter. "To Horou- This is the
first and last letter I'll ever
write to you. If what you said
is true, around the time I send
this letter I will cease to
exist. I've kept watch over
Kanon for a long time, but she
should be OK without me now.
Ichiyanagi left this town with
his mother and never returned.
The other me is now happily
living together with Kanon and
three daughters. Ho- rou, allow
me to thank you again. For
sending me to the past. For giv-
ing Kanon her future back. It's
all thanks to you. Thank you...
Horou. No one may know of all
the work you went through, but
I've always re- membered. I also
know that you loved her.
...Well, this is it. Say hello
to your parents for me. Be well.
-Tamotsu Tokio."

Right now your only job is to
enjoy the peace and quiet by
talking to everyone you've
encountered through the game.
I'll be arbitrarily doing this
from the left side of the map
screen moving towards the right,
but really you can talk to
everyone in any order you wish.

At the park, Arata is walking
his dog John. Horou introduces
himself to Arata, and they make
plans to walk John and Shiro
together sometime.

Outside of Chronos you'll find
Nanasawa standing around. He's
wondering whether or not Yagi's
bike will look new if he just
paints it, since he doesn't have
the cash to buy her a new one.
Yagi must want a new bike!
Inside Chronos, Horou's friends
are hanging out as always. Look
at the three guys. Shidou is
still ogling Yagi, Motoki is
drinking lots of coffee, and
Goshima is studying. Once you
examine all three, Tamotsu will
come over and set down a cup of
coffee for Horou. This is, of
course, the "new" Tamotsu. The
original is gone by now. The new
Tamotsu is married and happily
running Chronos, just how things
should've been. Also, Shidou has
the hots for Kanon. Haha.

Go to the inner hallway of the
school to find the original
Ninomiya, alive and well. As
always, Ninomiya has some
language topic to discuss. This
time he tells Horou of the
wisdom behind the phrase, "Time
waits for no one." He tells
Horou to treat every second with
care.

At the library, Horou apologizes
to Tokura for bothering her so
many times with work. She has no
idea what he's talking about.

Outside the vacant lot, Rokujou
is taking a walk. In this
timeline she doesn't run
Chronos, and therefore doesn't
know Horou. Instead she tells
Horou that she's planning on
opening a lunch shop near the
school and asks Horou to bring
his friends and shop there. It's
nice to hear that she has
something to do even if she
doesn't own Chronos.

Go to the Mihara household to
speak with Waori and Kuri. They
seem happy as ever. They make
plans to do something together
over summer vacation.

Now that you've spoken to
everyone, return to the school.
More specif- ically, to the
dumpster area. Horou needs to
put the watch and letter from
his father here. Enter digging.
Make a portal in the exact place
you picked up these items at the
beginning of the game, on top of
the garbage bags towards the
middle. From the menu select the
watch and letter from the items
section. From there, Horou
automatically returns home.

Once there, Horou ties yet
another letter to Follow. It's
the same one he recieved at the
beginning of the game. This'll
be the last time you use the
Pen, since Horou will be sending
it to himself in the past now.
Make a portal towards the head
of the bed. From there, select
an area around Horou's head/the
pillow. Now go to the items menu
and choose the Hollow Pen. Close
the portal and Horou will put
Follow and the pen on the other
side, so the events of the game
can play themselves out again.
Horou wishes his past self luck,
and that's it. Enjoy the ending
sequence! Ooooh. Mysterious.

 SECOND PLAYTHROUGH (4.9)
*------------------------*
From the second playthrough on,
it is possible to end the game
quickly. The ending animation is
slightly different and it
doesn't take much effort to
complete, so I recommend trying
it at least once! To achieve the
short ending, simply play
through the first chapter as
normal up until Aki calls Horou
down to dinner. From here I will
show the correct options to be
able to end the game quickly.
Answering in any other way will
result in a normal playthrough.
Let's begin!

As I mentioned in the above
paragraph, play normally until
Horou is called downstairs for
dinner. Attempt to leave the
room and Follow will run
outside. Horou begins to wonder
where Follow always runs off to,
so he thinks to himself:

- Forget about it, it's dinner t
* This is bothering me, I should

The normal opening animation
plays, but when it's over Horou
is outside with Follow. Then up
comes Ichiyanagi, out on a walk.
Does Horou know this man?

- No
* Yes *

Horou is able to recall
Ninomiya's name, but quickly
corrects himself, knowing that
this man is actually still
called Ichiyanagi at this point.
Ichiyanagi calmly asks why Horou
knows his name. Horou replies
that he has 'memories' and that
he knows what Ichiyanagi is
planning. Starting tonight
Ichiyanagi will:

* Eliminate my parents *
- Go out for dinner
- Play with Follow

By now Ichiyangi realizes that
this boy is the son of Wataru,
and therefore the successor of
the Hollow Pen. Despite his
initial shock that Horou knows
his plans already, Ichiyanagi is
otherwise unphased. Horou
doesn't hold the pen yet, so
there's nothing he can do. That
may not be entirely true,
though. What can Horou do?

* Persuade Ichiyanagi *
- Go back inside with Follow

Horou begs Ichiyanagi to wait
just one more day. He tells
Ichiyanagi that if he holds off
on his plans for one more day,
he can help his mother.
Naturally Ichiyanagi doesn't
want to believe Horou, who he
thinks is party to his mother's
death in the first place.
However, after what looks like
some mental arguing, he decides
to let Horou have his day. He
doesn't like the idea much, but
he knows that if Horou can't
save his mother tonight he can
always kill Wataru and Aki the
next day. Ichiyanagi leaves.

Horou will now go inside, where
Tamotsu is already demanding
money from Wataru. Everyone's
present, so Horou explains
everything. Tamotsu is the last
one to believe the story, but
when Horou mentions Kanon's
hourglass pendant, Tamotsu
tearfully turns around and
listens.

The next morning, everyone
gathers in room 3-B. Do as
before. Open a portal around
Kanon, select her, and use
Tamotsu as an item. There will
be no attack this time around,
because Ninomiya doesn't exist.
Every- thing goes smoothly and
Horou can easily close the
portal. Short and sweet. That's
all there is to it!


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| LOCATIONS (5.0)               
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

 AEON
*----*
There is an antique shop called
Aeon.

 CHRONOS
*-------*
Me and my friends come to this
cafe often.

 ETERNA
*------*
A restaurant called Eterna...
this is where the gas explosion
happened.

 INTERSECTION
*------------*
A lot of cars come through here.

 KAKO HIGH SCHOOL
*----------------*
The school I go to.

 LIBRARY
*-------*
People often use it as a meeting
place.

 MIHARA FAMILY HOME
*------------------*
It's quite close to my house.

 MUNICIPAL PARK
*--------------*
You can see the ocean in the
distance.

 TOKIO FAMILY HOME
*-----------------*
This is my house.

 TOKIWA HILL
*-----------*
A bus accident occured here a
long time ago.

 TRAIN STATION
*-------------*
From here you can take a train
to leave town.

 VACANT LOT
*----------*
What happened to Aeon...?


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| ITEMS (6.0)                   
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

 ARTICLE ON TAMOTSU TOKIO'S MURD
*-------------------------------
The article says that Tamotsu's
body was found in a neighboring
city at 10:35 on December 5th,
1996.

 BIG ALARM CLOCK
*---------------*
A present from Waori and Kuri.
Looks pretty loud...

 BIKE KEY
*--------*
Yagi's bicycle key. Since I took
it, Yagi can't ride her bike
anymore.

 BUS ACCIDENT ARTICLE
*--------------------*
An article about a bus accident
that occured on Tokiwa Hill at
10:25 AM on May 23rd, 1973.

 CLIPPERS
*--------*
The clippers Shidou used as a
weapon. Were the bike wires cut
with this...?

 COOKIES
*-------*
A present from Waori and Kuri.
They look homemade.

 ENVELOPE
*--------*
It would seem that Waori dropped
this. There is money inside.

 GAS EXPLOSION ARTICLE
*---------------------*
An article about an incident
that happened at the Western-
style restau- rant Eterna at
8:50 PM on April 5th, 1996.

 HOLLOW PEN
*----------*
A mysterious pen.

 IDEA MEMO
*---------*
A memo noting everyone's ideas
to make Chronos popular. This
should work!

 LIGHTNING ARTICLE
*-----------------*
An article relating to the
thunderbolt that struck our
secret base at 5:40 PM on August
12th, 1998.

 MEMO TO ICHIYANAGI'S MOTHER
*---------------------------*
A memo a plan on giving to my
uncle when he was in high
school. Kanon wrote it. This way
he won't throw it away for sure.

 MYSTERIOUS LETTER
*-----------------*
Attached to Follow's collar. The
sender is unknown. Says to go to
the school's garbage dump 'seven
hours ago.'

 NAOKO'S LETTER
*--------------*
A letter from 35 years ago that
says to ride a bus that will
crash.

 SMALL KEY
*---------*
Left on the desk in Tamotsu's
office. Maybe I can use it
somewhere.

 STUFFED ANIMAL OF FOLLOW
*------------------------*
A giant stuffed animal that
looks a lot like Follow. No
way... did Tamotsu make this by
hand...?!

 TABLE CLOCK
*-----------*
A present from Waori and Kuri.
It's an antique and looks
expensive.

 VACANT LOT ARSONRY ARTICLE
*--------------------------*
An article about the fire that
occured at the secret base at
3:30 PM on January 20th, 1998.

 WAORI'S CELL PHONE
*------------------*
A light pink cell phone. There's
a stuffed pig or dog or
something hanging off it.

 WAORI'S PICTURE
*---------------*
A picture of Waori I borrowed
from Motoki. I'm in there too.

 WATCH AND LETTER
*----------------*
Left on the other side of the
'hole.' It's the exact same
watch that I wanted for my
birthday.


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| FLASHBACKS (7.O)              
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

 BUS ACCIDENT 35 YEARS AGO
*-------------------------*
Time: 10:25 AM on May 23rd, 1973
Place: Tokiwa Hill Info: A bus
accident from 35 years ago.
Ichiyanagi's mother died. Ichi-
yanagi himself was slightly
wounded.

THE PLACE WHERE I CAN SAVE KANON
*-------------------------------
Time: 5:50 PM on October 20th,
1989 Place: Room 3-B Info: Kanon
was pushed off the roof, but I
can save her from here.

 TAMOTSU'S SUICIDE DIDN'T HAPPEN
*-------------------------------
Time: 5:00 PM on October 23rd,
1989 Place: School, entrance
Info: After Kanon fell from the
roof, my uncle once hung himself
here.

 TAMOTSU FINDS THE MEMO
*----------------------*
Time: 5:00 PM on October 23rd,
1989 Place: School, entrance
Info: My uncle read the memo in
his high school years.

 NAOKO READING THE MEMO
*----------------------*
Time: 2:30 PM on October 24th,
1989 Place: Train station Info:
My uncle passed the memo I sent
to him on to Ichiyanagi's
mother.

 ICHIYANAGI AND NAOKO LEAVING SC
*-------------------------------
Time: 1989, details unknown
Place: School Info: With the
injuries he recieved when he
pushed Kanon from the roof,
Ichiyanagi was made to leave
school.

 IF CHRONOS FLOURISHED...
*------------------------*
Time: 8:30 PM on May 1st, 1994
Place: Chronos, inside Info:
Uncle Tamotsu was the one who
originally opened Chronos, but
it didn't go well.

 A BUSTLING CHRONOS
*------------------*
Time: Sometime after May 2nd,
1994 Place: Chronos, inside
Info: Chronos is always full of
customers.

 GAS EXPLOSION INCIDENT
*----------------------*
Time: 8:50 PM on April 5th, 1996
Place: Eterna Info (1): A gas
explosion incident that
originally had no casualties. My
uncle was summoned here. Info
(2): A gas explosion incident
that originally had no
casualties. My uncle is nowhere
to be seen. Info (3): A gas
explosion incident that
originally had no casualties. My
mother and father are there.
Info (4): A gas explosion
incident that originally had no
casualties. My parents were able
to escape so now there is no one
there.

 EXPLOSION IN THE DISTANCE
*-------------------------*
Time: After 8:50 PM on April
5th, 1996 Place: Away from the
explosion Info: My uncle can see
the explosion, but he is not in
it himself. Kanon probably
pushed him all the way out here.

 UNCLE TAMOTSU'S MURDER SCENE
*----------------------------*
Time: 10:35 AM on December 5th,
1996 Place: Near the bus stop in
a neighboring city Info: My
uncle was murdered... It would
seem that he was gathering
information on the bus accident.

 ARSONRY OF THE SECRET BASE
*--------------------------*
Time: 3:30 PM on January 20th,
1998 Place: Secret base Info:
Was the secret base's fire...?

 SECRET BASE
*-----------*
Time: 5:40 PM on August 12th,
1998 Place: Secret base Info
(1): Shiro couldn't run from the
lightning because he was tied to
that tree. Info (2): Since the
rope was cut, Shiro was able to
escape the lightning.

 TAMOTSU AT THE DINING TABLE
*---------------------------*
Time: Unknown Place: Tokio
family home, dining room Info:
I'm living with my uncle...

 MY HOUSE
*--------*
Time: Unknown Place: Tokio
family home, dining room Info:
Mom, Dad, and even my uncle...
no one is around. It's just my
house.

 THE SIGHTS AT CHRONOS
*---------------------*
Time: Unknown Place: Chronos,
inside Info: My uncle is running
Chronos with his wife.

 MY CLASS
*--------*
Time: Recent, details unknown
Place: School, classroom Info
(1): Seems like this scene takes
place after school. It should be
something I'm used to seeing...
I can see Junibayashi here. Info
(2): My classroom after school.
Kanon is not in my class. Info
(3): My classroom after school.
No one's here...

 WALKING SHIRO
*-------------*
Time: Recent, details unknown
Place: The park Info: It would
seem that Shidou took Shiro in.
Everyone's happily playing with
Shiro.

 SCHOOL SCENE
*------------*
Time: Recent, details unknown
Place: School, hallway Info: My
friends are nowhere to be seen.

 ASKING FOR A WATCH
*------------------*
Time: Recent, details unknown
Place: Tokio family home, dining
room Info: I'm showing my
parents a new watch I want for
my birthday.

 AT CHRONOS
*----------*
Time: Recent, details unknown
Place: Chronos, inside Info: My
friends and I are hanging out.
Our regular routine.

 WAORI'S LOST SOMETHING
*----------------------*
Time: 4:30 PM on May 6th, 2008
Place: School, entrance Info:
The thing that Waori lost was
this envelope full of money. It
seems that she was going to use
it to buy my present.

 WAORI LOOKING AT SOMETHING
*--------------------------*
Time: 4:30 PM on May 6th, 2008
Place: School, entrance Info: It
would appear that Waori's
looking at something.

 WAORI AND KURI ARGUING
*----------------------*
Time: 7:00 PM on May 6th, 2008
Place: Chronos, bicycle parking
area Info: Kuri scolded Waori
pretty harshly for losing the
money...

 WAORI AND KURI'S MEETING
*------------------------*
Time: 7:10 PM on May 6th, 2008
Place: Chronos, bicycle parking
area Info: The bike behind the
girls belongs to Yagi. It would
seem that Yagi always parks her
bike there.

 DROPPED CLIPPERS
*----------------*
Time: 7:10 PM on May 6th, 2008
Place: Chronos, bicycle parking
area Info: A pair of clippers
was left here. Was it used to
cut something?

 THE GIRLS BAKING COOKIES
*------------------------*
Time: Unknown time on the
evening of May 6th, 2008 Place:
The kitchen of someone's house
Info: Waori and Kuri are baking
cookies late at night. They will
probably be used as my birthday
present.

 MYSELF ASLEEP
*-------------*
Time: 5:59 AM on May 7th, 2008
Place: Tokio family home, my
bedroom Info: Is this the time
when I saw the dream of my
parents in an acci- dent?

 GARBAGE DUMP
*------------*
Time: 3:00 PM on May 7th, 2008
Place: School, garbage dump Info
(1): The strange letter
indicated that I should come
here. Info (2): The strange
letter indicated that I should
come here. I picked up the watch
that was left there.

 ON THE WAY HOME
*---------------*
Time: Unknown time after school
on May 7th, 2008 Place: School
grounds Info: The two guys
behind me once picked up a watch
from the garbage dump. The same
watch I have now...?

 GIFT OF COOKIES
*---------------*
Time: Unknown time after school
on May 7th, 2008 Place: School
grounds Info: Waori and Kuri
gave me a present of homemade
cookies.

 A COMPLETELY DIFFERENT GIFT
*---------------------------*
Time: Unknown time after school
on May 7th, 2008 Place: School
grounds Info: Waori and Kuri
gave me an alarm clock with a
'unique' design as a present.

 POORLY SECURED FRIDGE
*---------------------*
Time: 8:40 PM on May 8th, 2008
Place: Side street near the
intersection Info: Before the
refrigerator fell off the truck
bed.

 SECURE FRIDGE
*-------------*
Time: 8:40 PM on May 8th, 2008
Place: Side street near the
intersection Info: The
refrigerator is tied tightly to
the truck.

 YAGI AVOIDING AN ACCIDENT
*-------------------------*
8:40 PM on May 8th, 2008 Place:
Side street near the
intersection Info: A fridge fell
in front of Yagi, but there were
no injuries. Probably the same
as the story I heard from Yagi
earlier.

 THE INTERSECTION
*----------------*
Time: 8:40 PM on May 8th, 2008
Place: Intersection Info: The
intersection, where no one was
in an accident.

 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT
*----------------*
Time: Unknown time on the
evening of May 8th, 2008 Place:
Intersection Info (1): Yagi has
been caught up in an accident.
Why did this happen... Info (2):
It would seem that Arata and
John have been caught up in the
accident.

 SHIDOU GETTING HIT
*------------------*
Time: Unknown time on May 10th,
2008 Place: Chronos, bicycle
parking area Info: Shidou got
into a fight with Nanasawa. It
would seem that he hit his head
when he was pushed down.


*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
| CONTACT (8.0)                 
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

If you have any questions or
would like to request to host
this FAQ on your webpage, please
feel free to contact me at:

dys_rsc *at* hotmail.com

I am not stingy about having
guides hosted elsewhere so long
as it remains unedited and I am
informed beforehand. However, I
will not monitor that other
sites keep this FAQ up-to-date,
so if you want to be guaranteed
the latest version you should
always check gamefaqs.com first!

Places currently allowed to host
this guide: www.gamefaqs.com,
www.cheatcc.com,
www.neoseeker.com,
www.supercheats.com
