Author: Jason "nimerjm" Nimer
Version: .07
Version Start Date: 6/20/07
Version Completion Date: 6/24/07


Transformers: Autobots for
Nintendo DS FAQ/Walkthrough

By nimerjm



Author's Note:

Hey to all out there in InterWeb
land; nimerjm here. Having
recently completed my first FAQ
ever (Time Ace - Nintendo DS),
I've kind of caught the FAQ
writing bug. It actually works
out for me, as I am between
writing jobs and putting
together these keeps me sharp.
If you are reading this and want
to hire me, I have a resume and
writing samples all ready to go.
*End shameless self promotion*

That being said, I'll get the
other necessary FAQ stuff out of
the way. If you have any
questions, anything to add or
want to alert me to something in
here being incorrect, my email
is still nimerjm at hotmail dot
com. Make absolutely sure to put
Transformers: Autobots in the
subject line or I can't promise
I'll get it or respond. This
email also works for giving me a
job...

Finally, no one may use this
FAQ, in whole or in part,
without express written
permission from me. Like I said
in my first FAQ, I spent a lot
of time in Media Law classes
back in my college days, so it
would be very foolish to steal
my intellectual property (this
FAQ). If you decide you want to
steal from me, you might as well
just buy me a boat. It will save
us both time and expensive
lawyer and court fees. Besides,
who steals a FAQ anyway?

Now that we have all that out of
the way, lets get on with it,
shall we?

FAQ Updates and Info Fixes

June 20, 2007: Started FAQ June
24, 2007: Finished FAQ - though
some sections are incomplete
June 29, 2007: Added second
cheat (Megawolf) and section
(U-4) Beware the COMBAT AREA
(Tuck) Decepticon exclusives
coming soon! June 30, 2007:
Added some to the cheats, secret
cars and glitches segments July
1, 2007: Added a few score to
the Challenge Mode and one more
glitch July 6, 2007: Added
Easter Egg section July 8, 2007:
Changed the cheat section a
little bit July 18, 2007: Added
Gold Medal times and Action
Replay codes. Added to the
thanks section and updated a few
things here and there

Table Of Contents

*You'll notice that there is a
number/letter combo for each
part of the FAQ. Simply use CTRL
- F (or Apple - F for all my Mac
users out there) and type in the
(letter/number) code to skip to
the section you are interested
in.

(W-1) Introduction (W-2) Story
(Possible Spoilers) (W-3)
Controls (M-1) Basic movement
(M-2) Combat mode (M-3) Weapons
mode (M-4) Driving controls
(M-5) Chopper controls (M-6)
Touch Screen controls (M-7)
Learned moves (W-4) Walkthrough
(S-1) Casino Strip (S-2)
Tranquility (S-3) The Arctic
(S-4) Tranquility (2nd visit)
(S-5) Hoover Dam (S-6)
Tranquility (3rd visit) (W-5)
Challenge Missions (C-1) Casino
Strip (C-2) Tranquility (C-3)
The Arctic (C-4) The Hoover Dam
(W-6) Endgame (W-7) Checklists
(L-1) Vehicle list (L-2)
Playable Autobot list (W-8)
Extras and Secrets (U-1) Cheats
(U-2) Secret vehicles (U-3) The
elusive jet and the download
station blues (U-4) Easter Eggs
(U-5) Action Replay codes (W-9)
Online (O-1) Allspark Wars
rules/systems (O-2) Online only
unlockables (W-10) Glitches
(G-1) Beware the COMBAT AREA
(G-2) Brawl 2: Electric Boogaloo
(G-3) The Rainbow Connection
(W-11) Thanks and Anti-Thanks

(W-1) Introduction

Ok - Welcome to the
FAQ/Walkthrough for the Autobot
version of the great DS
Transformers game. Like with
Spider Man 3 before it,
Vicarious Visions has managed to
craft another amazingly not
crappy movie game for the DS!
Anyway, this game comes in two
completely different versions:
Autobots (good guys) and
Decepticons (bad guys). Before
you ask, no, I don't know which
version is more popular or
"better" as I only have only
played the Autobot version.

If you are old enough to
remember the cartoon from the
80's, you'll see some familiar
friends and foes, but by no
means is this game just for
people with extensive knowledge
of the Transformers universe.
The game is fun enough to stand
on its own, with our without the
"childhood memory" factor.

Transformers: Autobots for
Nintendo DS will no doubt end up
with the nickname Grand Theft
Autobot, as the free roaming and
mission based gameplay does have
a very GTA-like "sandbox" feel
to it, not to mention being able
to ratchet up a "wanted" level.
There is one major difference,
though, this game doesn't suck
like every GTA game ever made.
Anyway, Transformers: Autobots
is loosely based around this
summer's Transformers: The
Movie, which hit theaters on
July 4, 2007. IMO the movie was
pretty good but without Louis
Stevens (uh-oh, Disney channel
reference) and giant robots, it
would have been the dumbest
movie ever.

The other notable feature this
game boasts is a very
interesting online feature. Yes,
you can play four player death
matches with your friends if
everyone has a copy of the game,
but the online portion is a bit
different. We'll get to its ins
and outs later in the FAQ, but
the short explanation is that
you participate in an online
score leader board, with the two
sects of Transformers working
against each other to obtain
pieces of something called the
AllSpark, which kind of looks
like Pinhead's death box from
the atrocious Hellraiser films.
Like I said, I'll get to all
this later.

***I am currently working on
   adding the Decpticons
   walkthrough to this guide.***

(W-2) Story (Possible Spoilers)

Since we don't yet know if the
game follows the movie's
plotline, I'll mark this section
as having some spoilers. I
won't, however, mention too much
about the game's story in the
walkthrough. I'll let you know
when you are playing as a
different Autobot or when
something tied to the story
needs to be accomplished, but I
won't narrate the whole story to
you.

Without going into too much
detail, the game picks up some
years after the planet
Cybertron's destruction. It
seems that some sentient robots
(Transformers...duh) split into
two warring factions and managed
to destroy their own home world.
Now, both the good and bad
armies have descended on Earth,
the new home of a mysterious and
powerful object known as the
Allspark.

As a bonus for the Decepticons,
it seems that their long lost
leader, Megatron, is also
somewhere on Earth. Great news
for bad guys, terrible news for
the good guys and even worse
news for mankind, seeing as they
have no advance knowledge of the
robots that will soon be tearing
up their cities and smashing
everything in sight.

In the Autobots version of this
game, your main task will be
stopping the Decepticons from
finding and reviving Megatron,
all while seeking the Allspark,
which could put an end to the
Decepticons for good. Sounds
fun, right?

As far as how this storyline
connects to the upcoming movie,
the cartoon and movie from the
80's or any other part of the
Transformers history, I don't
really know. I watched the show
and movie when I was in
elementary school but all I
really remember was that
Soundwave was my favorite. If
you'd like to add to this
section of the FAQ, email me and
I'll credit you for your
information.

(W-3) Controls

For a 3D game on a system with
no analog stick (or Wiimote),
Transformers controls pretty
well. Here are the basic control
schemes for the many modes and
forms you'll be collecting. As
you progress through the game,
you'll gain new abilities,
combos, vehicles and attacks.
New powers and moves will be
listed separately from the basic
abilities you start the game
with under the learned moves
category.

(M-1) Basic movement

D-pad: Move character L/R: Move
camera (L+R centers camera
behind character) B button: Jump

(M-2) Combat mode

D-pad: Move character L/R: Move
camera (L+R centers camera
behind character) B button: Jump
A button: Melee attack X button:
Grab/Throw

(M-3) Weapons mode

D-pad: Move character
(right/left becomes strafe) L/R:
Move camera (L+R centers camera
behind character) B button: Jump
Y button: Fire blaster (ranged
weapon)

(M-4) Driving controls

D-pad: Steer vehicle B button:
Accelerate (holding up on d-pad
works as well) A button:
Emergency brake (used for sharp
turns) L trigger: Reverse R
trigger: Speed boost

(M-5) Chopper controls

D-pad: Steer vehicle (right/left
becomes strafe) A button: Gain
altitude B button: Lose altitude
Y button: Fire blaster (ranged
weapons)

(M-6) Touch Screen functions

The touch screen has four uses:
Scanning, transforming and
viewing the map. It also shows a
radar screen, which will help
you find story missions,
challenge missions, mission
specific goals and enemies.

Top right of screen - Aiming
reticule - Scan: Tapping this
button will put you into scan
mode. In this mode, you can scan
vehicles to gain them as forms
you can transform into. Keep in
mind that not all vehicles will
scan. This mode also has auto-
lock, so pointing the scanner
even close to a vehicle will
result in a lock-on and scan.
Tap the reticule again to return
to normal.

Bottom right of screen - Autobot
insignia - Tap this to transform
into a vehicle you've scanned.
Tap it again to return to robot
form. If you'd like to change
the vehicle you can morph into,
the Vehicle Form option on the
Pause menu will show you your
options.

Middle left of screen - Map -
Tap this to open an overhead map
of the area. Story objectives
are marked in green, challenges
in yellow and your current
position is marked with the
Autobot insignia.

Dead center - Radar- There's no
interaction with this one. It
just shows exactly what the map
shows without a detailed map. It
also shows enemies (red
triangles) and police cars if
you have a "wanted" level.

(M-7) Learned moves

*Note: These are not listed in
the order you will obtain them,
as it seems different from
player to player. Once all
listed moves are learned,
leveling up will only increase
your stats.

Combat Mode

A, A, A: Three hit combo B, A:
Jump kick B, A+(down): Ground
smash X button: Climb Automatic:
Health regeneration (achieved at
level 20)

Weapons Mode

Y button (tap): Fire heavy
weapon Y button (hold): Fire
blaster

Driving controls

Y button (tap): Fire heavy
weapon Y button (hold): Fire
blaster

Chopper controls

Y button (tap): Fire heavy
weapon Y button (hold): Fire
blaster

(W-4) Walkthrough

Here it is, probably the only
part of the FAQ you are
interested in (except maybe the
secrets, cheats and unlockable
vehicles...). This part of the
FAQ will be separated by both
areas and the story missions
contained within. To skip
directly to a certain place,
simply find the area and scroll
to the appropriate mission.
Let's get to some giant robot
mayhem, shall we?

(S-1) Casino Strip

Mission 1: The New Arrival

After a pretty cool cinematic
and some conversation between
you and Ironhide, you'll get
control of your character and
start this mission/tutorial.

First, you'll be asked to seek
out yellow markers on the map
and, well, stand in them. This
serves to acclimate you with the
game's movement controls. On-
screen prompts will then explain
the basics of using the camera
and attacking. Then you'll be
taught how to grab objects, use
them as weapons and/or throw
them.

Next, you'll be tasked with
destroying a few Decepticon
drones. They don't put of much
of a fight, so just pound them
and move on. After that, you'll
get to practice using your
ranged weapon, first as an
example and then you'll need to
shoot down a chopper. Nothing to
difficult once you get the hang
of things.

Ironhide will then jump in and
explain the mechanics of
scanning, changing into and
operating vehicles. Walk down
the street a tad and scan the
highlighted car. Yeah, it is a
piece but you'll get better
vehicles shortly. To scan and
transform, you'll be using the
touch screen. I find that my
thumbnail works more effectively
than pulling out the stylus and
poking buttons, but it is just
personal preference.

Lastly, you'll be driving around
and touching a series of yellow
markers. During all this, the
game will explain the basics of
turning, accelerating and
braking, as well as the
extremely useful e-brake turn.
After you hit the last marker,
the mission/tutorial is over.

Mission 2: Put To The Test

Ironhide will alert you to some
Decepticons attacking nearby.
Follow the triangles on the
radar to a trio of robots
attacking the Space Needle. Take
the three of them out and
another, seemingly more
powerful, Decepticon will
attack. Pummel him with punches
and kicks and he should go down
in no time. That is the end of
this short mission and it's the
last mission in Casino Strip (at
least for now).

(S-2) Tranquility

Mission 1: Protect The Locals

First, you'll have 60 seconds to
stop the rampaging Decepticon
just ahead of you. Just run up
and smash him and if he doesn't
manage to destroy any cars,
you'll move on to the next
segment.

Now the game will tell you your
wanted level is higher. For
those who don't get it, the
wanted level is represented at
the top right of the screen (the
Decepticon heads). It goes up
with the amount of destruction
you cause. The higher the wanted
level, the more vigorously the
police will chase you. To lower
it, which is your goal for this
mission, simply transform into a
vehicle and drive off. It should
drop back down to zero is a
minute or two, provided you
don't smash any police vehicles.

The last objective in this
mission is to stop two
Decepticons from breaking stuff.
The trick is that you have to do
it without destroying any
property yourself. It sounds
like it might be tough, but
really all you have to do is
keep away from the cars and
light posts on the street. Not
too tough. At this point it in
the game, melee attacks will be
your best friend. As you gain
additional firepower through
leveling up, you'll be using the
ranged weapons more, but for now
you can enjoy the simple
pleasures of kicking a robot
into the side of a building.
Finish them both and the level
is over.

Mission 2: Car Shopping

Optimus Prime will instruct you
to go and meet with Bumblebee.
He'll be the little blue
triangle on your radar. Once you
talk to him, he'll tell you to
go and scan a certain car, which
is marked on the radar with a
yellow dot. You'll have to scan
two more afterward (3 total).
Scanning the third and final car
will make it turn into a
Decepticon. Smash him to a
million pieces and finish the
mission.

Mission 3: Information Super
Highway

This mission is pretty much the
same as the last one, though
here you'll be scanning three
Internet towers. Just follow the
yellow dots on your radar and
scan them one by one. It is also
important to note that with each
tower scanning, your wanted
level will go up. Just stay on
the rooftops and the police
won't be able to hit you. Scan
the towers and the level will be
finished.

Mission 4: Police Brutality

For this mission, you'll be in
charge of Bumblebee. Follow the
marker on your map to the source
of the Internet transmission.
Once you get there, the
Decepticon Barricade will be
waiting for you. He'll then
transform into a car and take
off.

You'll need to chase him down,
but this can be tricky in a few
spots. First off, if you let him
get too far ahead of you, you'll
automatically lose the mission.
You might need to attempt this
chase a couple of times, as
Barricade makes some extremely
sharp (and unexpected) turns.

Once you do manage to catch up
to Barricade on a bridge, the
game will take over. Then,
you'll need to defeat him. He
can be pretty tough but if you
get in trouble, you can always
leave the area, refill your life
bar and return to the bridge to
finish the job. Once he goes
down, you'll be finished with
the mission and the city of
Tranquility (for now...).

(S-3) The Arctic

Mission 1: Follow That Convoy

For your first mission in this
frozen wasteland, you'll finally
get what exactly what you've
looking forward to - a
helicopter! To start the
mission, you'll be told to go
and scan a helicopter. It is
marked with a yellow triangle on
your radar, so just make your
way over there and get to
scanning.

After you've scanned the
chopper, you won't have much
time to get acclimated to the
controls before you're
instructed to follow and protect
a convoy of three trucks. Once
you figure out the whole
gain/loss of altitude system
things should be easy, just make
sure you keep up with those
three trucks. Like in the race
with Barricade, if you fall too
far behind, your mission will
end in failure. It is also
important to note that if you
move ahead of the convoy,
they'll see you and the mission
will end.

Before too long, a Decepticon
will be blocking the convoy's
path. Shoot at him to clear the
path, because if you attempt to
use melee attack, the convoy
will see you. After he's gone, a
helicopter will come and attack
you. Again, just use your ranged
weapons and protect the three
trucks. You'll be stopped for a
second and third time soon, but
just use the strategy from
before and you'll get through.
Towards the end, the enemies
will just keep coming, so just
protect the trucks until the
game takes over and the level
ends.

Mission 2: Too Late

Nice. This is the second time we
get to play with a new
Transformer - Ironhide! To start
this mission, you'll need to
take out six Decepticons that
are attempting to reach the
underground cave that is
protected by some large steel
doors. Luckily, Ironhide is one
of the most powerful
Transformers, so you shouldn't
have much problem. There is one
catch though; you cannot kill
any military vehicles. The best
way to keep them out of harm's
way is to use melee attacks.
Sometimes when you use ranged
weapons, the lock on can be
tricky and you'll end up blowing
up a vehicle by mistake.

Now that they are gone, move
inside the mountain base and
make your way through the short
tunnel. Once you get to the open
area, you'll be told that what
you were looking for is no
longer there. Even though the
game will instruct you to "look
for clues", all you need to do
is find a set of double doors
and break them down.

Make your way down the ramps and
into another open area. Check
the area out and you'll see a
Decepticon using a computer
terminal. Finish him off and
you'll need to take out six more
robots. Once they are gone, the
mission is over.

Mission 3: Bad Reception

You'll be back in charge of your
personal Autobot for this
mission. Ironhide will need you
to cover him while he makes his
way to an Internet tower. This
is a bit easier than it sounds.
Concentrate on the turrets
blocking the path, as they will
cause more damage to both you
and Ironhide than any of the
copters ever could. The only
drawback is that you must stay
in chopper form while escorting,
but you can change back to robot
form when Ironhide reaches his
goal.

Now, you'll need to protect
Ironhide while he uploads some
information (aka just stands
there and doesn't help). At the
lower left of the screen, you'll
see some text and a number out
of 100. You need to protect
Ironhide from the attacking
Decepticons until the first
number reaches 100. Try to stick
with ranged attacks while
staying close to Ironhide. Using
melee attacks works just as
well, but you should be causing
more damage with your ranged
attacks and missiles by now.

Let Ironhide finish uploading
his data and you'll finish the
level.

Mission 4: Winter Showdown

Ok old-school nerds - he is what
you've been waiting for - the
chance to go toe to toe with the
fan favorite Starscream. This
fight can be extremely
difficult, but a few little tips
make it slightly easier.

During this fight, you'll be
dealing with Starscream in jet
mode (most of the time) and an
endless wave of lesser
Decepticons. Thee lackeys can be
both a blessing and a curse, as
they simultaneously are a pain
in the butt and a blessing from
above. Nearly all of these leave
behind either health or weapon
boosters, but if you let them
gang up on you, it will be "game
over" very quickly.

As for Starscream himself, he
can both dish out and take
massive amounts of damage. His
main attack consists of a few
rounds of machine gun fire
followed by a missile, which
will knock you off your feet and
disorient you. The best way to
avoid being massacred is putting
your back to the comm. tower and
waiting for Starscream to enter
your field of vision. Then, just
use ranged weapons to knock off
his life, little by little. Make
it quick though, as Starscream
can regenerate his health if you
leave him alone for too long.
After just a bit of practice,
you'll fall into a groove and
the fight will go like
clockwork.

After finishing Starscream off,
you will be all finished with
the Arctic map. Then, all of the
sudden, you'll be back in
Tranquility. You'll get a little
background on the story and some
dialogue from all the Autobots
in the game, including (yay)
Optimus Prime.

(S-4) Tranquility (2nd Visit)

Author's Note:

Before starting "Happy
Landings", spend some time
checking out the city. A sizable
percentage of the game's vehicle
scans can now be found just
roaming the streets. See the
Vehicle List at the end of this
FAQ for a complete list of which
ones are now available.

Mission 1: Happy Landings

Now, you'll be back in charge of
Bumblebee. In vehicle form, he
is very quick, so use that to
your advantage. You'll need to
get to the docks in less than
four minutes, but utilizing
Bumblebee's speed will get you
there with time to spare.

Once you make it to the docks,
your main goal will be to
destroy the turret guns. The
cops, SWAT guys and helicopters
are incidental and you can take
them out if you are hurting for
life. Otherwise, just bash the
turrets and move on.

Next, you'll be directed back
into the city to take care of
some more turrets. Find them by
using your radar (they are the
large red triangles) and take
them out one by one. Just a bit
of info - all the turrets are no
on the roofs of buildings.
Hanging out on street level is
just a waste of your time.

After you get rid of these,
you'll be directed to four more
turrets stationed near the
city's courthouse. It is just a
matter of locating the dots on
the radar, destroying the
turrets and keeping yourself
alive.

After the three sets of turrets
are gone, you'll have finished
the mission.

Mission 2: Know Thy Enemy

In this mission, you'll be
playing as a new Autobot - Jazz.
In addition to a speed level of
"max", he has a fairly well
rounded stat set, so his
controls and feel will be quite
similar to your main Autobot.

Optimus Prime will ask you to go
and retrieve a SUV from the
residential area. Simply follow
the yellow dot to find the SUV.
Before you pick it up, make sure
your health is at 100%. Grab it
and make a break for it.
Choppers and various other law
enforcement vehicles will be
firing at you the whole way back
to Prime. Just attempt to stay
out of their line of fire and
make it back to Prime, SUV in
hand.

Next, you'll be heading north to
a second vehicle. Again, do not
pick it up until you have your
health at 100%. Once you have it
in hand, do not attempt to just
run like you did with the first
vehicle - you won't even make it
out of the building's parking
lot. Instead, hurl the vehicle
at the choppers that just
appeared. The vehicle can
explode if you throw it around
too much, so try to keep it at
one or two tosses at most. If
where you tossed the vehicle
looks relatively safe, just take
care of the four choppers and
ground vehicles before picking
it back up and making a run for
it. Bring it back to Prime once
the coast is clear.

Next, you'll need to go and find
the last vehicle for Prime.
Follow the yellow dot like
always, but when you get there,
you'll be on the receiving end
of a nasty surprise: The last
vehicle is actually the
Decepticon Blackout. Now, after
all that, you'll be expected to
fight him. Ugh. The best method
is to fire off a bunch of
missiles while strafing him and
while your missile power
recharges, run in and bash him a
few times. Rinse and repeat. He
may be big, but he'll go down in
no time flat.

Mission 3: Driven To Distraction

For this mission, you'll be back
in charge of Bumblebee. Remain
in car form and get to the
yellow marker on your map
without upping your "wanted" or
"threat" level. Once you do make
it to the dot, break out in
robot form and kill everything
in sight. Once your threat level
is at four, finish the remaining
police forces and you'll be
directed to another location.
Head there and don't raise the
threat level on the way.

Once there, let loose again with
everything you've got. This
round, there will be armored
vehicles with missiles on the
scene as well, so make sure you
get them first and leave the
police cars for last. Elevate
that threat level to four,
finish off the cops and head to
the last yellow marker.

Approach this last segment
exactly as the two before, only
be a bit more careful this time
- you'll be dealing with mostly
choppers and tanks this time and
they can finish you off quickly
if you aren't careful. Once it
is all said and done, the
mission will end, you'll get a
bit of dialogue and story and
you'll have finished your second
visit to Tranquility.

(S-5) Hoover Dam

Mission 1: In Through The Back
Door

For your first mission at the
Hoover Dam (aka the world's most
boring vacation spot), you'll be
back in charge of Jazz. This
mission is actually like four or
five smaller missions rolled
into one so let's get to it.

First, you'll be instructed to
find a radio tower. Sounds easy
enough, right? Well, you'll also
need to stay in vehicle form and
not arouse any suspicion. This
means driving safe, staying in
your lane and absolutely no
violence of any kind. After a
few minutes, you'll come up on a
police barricade. Now, like a
stoned teenager in his mom's
Mercedes, you'll have to play it
cool. Drive through each
roadblock slowly and carefully
until you reach the radio tower.

To upload your signal (or
whatever it is we're doing),
you'll need to climb the radio
tower. Transform and get to the
tower before any passers by see
you, and simply climb to the
very top.

Next, get back into vehicle form
and head for the yellow dot.
Drive safe but keep in mind that
you'll eventually need to leave
the road and drive into the
desert. You'll see a hole on the
side of a hill with a ramp
leading into it. Drive in there
and park in the yellow circle.

Now, while your data is
uploading, you'll need to stay
alive as helicopters, tanks,
armored vehicles and police cars
all try to bring you down. This
would be much easier if we could
use Ironhide or our base
Autobot, but try your best to
stay alive. Once the counter at
the bottom of the screen reaches
100, you'll be instructed to get
to a rendezvous point.

If you are doing ok in the
health department, just take off
and get to the point as quickly
as possible. If you are low on
health, smash a few more copters
to regain some life, then take
off for your goal. After this,
you'll get some more dialogue
and the mission will be over.

Mission 2: Prison Break

Ahh...back in charge of our
faithful, nameless Autobot.
Finally! Anyway, this mission
can be pretty tricky and very
frustrating if you don't have a
plan of attack. Like the last
mission, this is actually three
missions in one and each one is
tougher than the next.

To start, you'll need to take
out six satellite dishes. This
is beyond easy as they don't
fight back and they are
elevated, which means none of
the police vehicles have a shot
at you. Take out all six to move
on.

Now, you'll need to get rid of
four sets of turrets. The first
three are simple enough to get
rid of, just use a helicopter
and strafe them, shooting
missiles as you pass. The last
set is a bit more difficult
because they are situated on a
small landing at the bottom of
the dam. They aren't easy to get
a lock on and fighting on foot
is out of the question. Why? If
you get hit with a missile, more
often than not you'll be tossed
into the river. When you
respawn, another missile will
hit and put you back into the
drink. Soon you'll be dead and
you won't have made a dent in
either turret. Keep moving and
firing and you'll get them both
eventually.

For the last leg of this
mission, you'll be entering the
dam itself to find your captured
teammate. There will plenty of
resistance keeping you from him,
so just power through and pray
for health boosts. When you see
an elevator shaft that is
lighted red, jump inside and fly
(or climb) up to the second
level. Make your way to the
control room (did they steal the
set from Goldeneye?), take out
the forces in there and you'll
finish the level.

Mission 3: The Heist

This mission kind of doesn't
make any sense story wise. In
the last mission, you rescued
Bumblebee. To start this
mission, you need to find the
green dot - outside the
fortress. Then, all the sudden,
your back in the building
playing as Bumblebee. What?

Anyway, your first job is to get
rid of the Decepticons you were
locked up with (locked up? I
thought I just rescued this
guy!). There are only three, so
don't be too concerned about it.

Next, Optimus Prime will tell
you to go and find a computer
chip. Head in and out of these
rooms, breaking the hexagonal
cases as you go. There are 14 in
total, but you'll most likely
get to the chip long before you
break them all.

Now, with the Allspark in sight,
you need to break the four
shield generators to deactivate
the force field. The trick is
that you will be swarmed by
robotic scorpions. Ignore them
for the most part and
concentrate on the generators.
Once all four are destroyed, the
shield will go down and the
scorpions will disappear. Run to
the Allspark in the middle of
the room.

Just when you thought this
mission was over, you need to
escape from the base in less
than 30 seconds. It is fairly
easy, just don't crash into any
walls and don't slow down. Make
it out and you'll finish the
mission.

Mission 4: Clearing The Road

As if to make up for the last
mission not making any sense,
the developers finally let you
control the granddaddy of them
all - Optimus Prime. He is as
fast as any of the Autobots,
packs more punch with every
attack and generally be cool.

You job is to cover Bumblebee by
taking out roadblocks. There
isn't any real strategy on how,
but I find that killing the
vehicles first keeps Bumblebee's
health up. Make it through a few
of these and you'll be stopped
by the Decepticon Barricade and
a smaller, but no less tough,
robot.

You're still in charge of
keeping Bumblebee alive at this
point, so keep the Decepticons
away from him. Just use missiles
on both the enemies. If you can
destroy them both without losing
Bumblebee, you'll finish the
mission.

Without giving too much away,
the cinematic following the
completion of this mission gives
your first look at another fan
favorite Transformer. Enjoy!

Mission: 5: Bombing Run

Finally! Another easy mission!
You'll be in control of Ironhide
again and your job is to get rid
of the six bombs that have been
planted on the dam. They will be
marked on your radar but I'll
just tell you where they are
anyway. Four are on the bridge
itself and two are on the
turbine that connect to the dam
with narrow walkways. Toss them
all into the ocean, avoid
getting yourself killed and
viola! You've finished this
mission!

Mission 6: Interference

Another mission as Optimus
Prime! On your way back into the
base, the Decepticon Brawl will
stop you. Now, it is up to you
to take him down.

You won't beat this guy on your
first try. After you've given it
a few tries, you'll get the hang
of it and the fight won't be
nearly as tough as it seems at
first.

Brawl has two forms, the robot
and the tank. When he is in
robot form (he'll spend most of
the fight in this form), your
best bet for taking him out is
locking onto him, moving in
circles around him while firing
missiles and jumping the whole
time. Once you get into the
groove, you probably won't even
take one hit.

His final form is a tank. Ugh.
On top of that, other tanks will
constantly respawn to make your
life difficult. During this
phase Brawl can't be hurt by
melee or ranged attacks, so what
is a good Autobot to do? Smash
him with the other tanks in the
area! I found that throwing
tanks at him isn't very
effective because you'll end up
missing almost every time.
Instead, grab a tank and smash
Brawl with it (A button). The
tank will explode on impact so
grab another one, rinse and
repeat and the fight will be
over. It only takes two or three
tanks smashes to end the fight.
Do so and you'll finish the
mission and the Hoover Dam map.

(S-6) Tranquility (3rd visit)

Mission 1: Narrow Escape

Here we go; yet another mission
with Bumblebee. It seems that
Blackout is gunning for you and
you're half a city away from the
other Autobots. So, Allspark in
hand, begin your race across the
city.

You'll most likely have to do
this more than once because of a
few sharp turns and easily lost
health. Make sure you blow up
all the red sports cars in your
path as when you run into them,
the take about 1/6 of your life.
Even though the time is
constantly ticking away, you
have more than enough leeway to
slow down and concentrate on
getting those cars out of your
way. Run through enough yellow
time extenders/checkpoints and
the mission will end.

Mission 2: Downtown Blackout

This will be your one and only
chance to play with Ratchet, so
enjoy it while it lasts. When
you start the mission, you'll
find yourself on a rooftop with
the Decepticon Blackout. After
you threaten each other a bit,
the fight will begin. Keep in
mind that there are two phases
to this fight and that if you do
happen to leave the roof you're
on, it will be an automatic
loss.

For the first part of the fight,
Blackout will circle the roof in
his helicopter form. Try to stay
locked onto him, but don't shoot
any missiles until he pauses in
mid-air and faces you. If you
try to hit him while he's
moving, you'll just be wasting
energy - he is far too fast to
hit.

After you've knocked down
Blackout's health to about 2/3
of his original health, he'll
transform and land on the roof.
You can keep up the missile
onslaught if you like, but melee
attacks will cause him more
damage. He is unbelievably slow
in robot form as well, so using
melee attacks is a good plan of
action. Be light on your feet
and there is a good chance he
won't land one hit while he's
transformed.

Blackout's last phase is a
repeat of his first - the
helicopter. Do as you did
before, while making good and
sure that you don't leave that
rooftop. His missiles will knock
you back a good distance in this
2nd form, so be careful to not
get hit by even one of them.
Keep on top of him and he should
crash and burn in no time.

Mission 3: Fire Fighting

For the first time in a while,
we'll actually be using our
generic Autobot for this
mission. To start off, you'll
need to protect Ironhide from a
whole bunch of angry and
constantly respawning
Decepticons. Quickly get to his
position on the map and start
fighting.

Once there, you'll need to
protect Ironhide for a full two
minutes. I wish there was a
strategy for finishing this part
of the mission, but there just
isn't one. If you get lucky,
you'll live. If not, give it
another try. You'll luck out
eventually.

I'll add this as well - if you
are looking to level up your
Autobot, there is no better
place in the game than this
mission. Win or lose, each
Decpeticon you destroy gives you
a hefty 400 to 500 experience
points. If you feel like you are
just barely making it out of the
missions alive, try this mission
a few times and get your level
to somewhere between 16 and 20.
That should help out.

Once the time runs out, Ironhide
will be ok by himself for a
while. Jazz will chime in and
request your help, so head
towards him. On the way, make
sure to break some stuff to
refill your health. Take all the
time you need, as there isn't a
countdown here like there was
with Ironhide (reaching him).
Once you've got everything ready
to go, step into the yellow and
help Jazz out.

Jazz will need you to help him
take out 50 Spark Drones (aka
metal scorpions from before).
Keep in mind that you'll want to
avoid using melee attacks
because when destroyed, the
drones explode and cause quite a
bit of damage. Stick with you
missiles and you should be ok.
Also, you'll need to keep pace
with Jazz. If you let him get
too far away, the mission will
end.

After you've taken out 50 drones
(and circled that city block a
couple of times), Jazz will let
you know that Bumblebee needs
your assistance. This time, you
do have a time limit on getting
to Bumblebee, so get moving.

Bumblebee will need you to keep
some attacking Decepticons at
bay while you escort him to
Optimus Prime. Stay close to
Bumblebee and try to position
yourself between him and the
enemies. Prime is fairly close
so you'll only have to survive
for a little while. Get
Bumblebee to Prime's location
and the mission will end.

Mission 4: End Game

Here it is - the big fight with
Megatron. Sadly, you'll be
playing as generic Autobot and
not Optimus Prime, but the fight
is fun so you'll get over it.

To start, check out your
surroundings. You are at the
crossroads of four streets.
Optimus Prime is on one street
and has his hands full with a
bunch more of those scorpions.
The other three roads are where
Megatron will attack from. Your
goal is to knock the Allspark
out of his hand and use it
against him. It won't be easy,
but it is totally doable.

You'll need to lock onto
Megatron with your missile
targeting system, but only so
you can circle around him - you
won't be using any missiles
here. Get behind him and hit him
with a single melee attack. Just
one. Why? Well, there are two
reasons actually.

One is that you'll never land a
second hit in a combo on
Megatron. The other reason is
that if Megatron turns around
and shoots you, you'll be tossed
back and the mission will end. I
guess the game designers didn't
take this into account because
if you get too far from Prime,
the mission ends. So just stay
in front of Megatron and you'll
be ok.

After you've hit him a few
times, he'll drop the Allspark.
You can tell where it is by the
beam of light shooting straight
up out of it. Run over to it and
press X to pick it up. Megatron
will ramp up the intensity and
frequency of his attacks. Be
careful and get as close to him
as you can. Hit him with the
Allspark (A button) and you'll
be treated to a little more
dialogue.

You didn't really think the game
would end without a
Prime/Megatron fight did you?
Ok, here it is - the last
battle. You'll notice that on
each of the four intersecting
streets, a smaller robot is just
standing around. There four are
you health boosts for this tough
fight. Use them sparingly, but
use them - the fight most likely
is impossible without them.

To take down Megatron, use the
same approach as you did with
Brawl. Circle him while jumping
and shooting. Every so often,
Megatron will pause and fire
some purple explosives at you.
If you are close to him when he
does this, you can sneak in a
melee attack or two. If you have
a telephone pole in your hand,
you can do a little bit more
damage, so if you can, use one.

This fight is a pain and it will
probably take a few tries before
you get it right. Once you do
destroy Megatron, you'll get
some more dialogue and story and
then - the game is over!
Congratulations!

By beating the game, you unlock
the Maintenance Truck vehicle
form. That last fight was tough,
don't we deserve a cooler
vehicle for finishing it?


(W-5) Challenge missions

A few notes about challenges -
no matter where you are in the
story, you can always go back
and complete them at any time.
Also, you are ranked on how well
you complete the task. There are
bronze, silver and gold metals
for rewards. Keep in mind that
after you try a certain
challenge once, you can play it
straight from the Main Menu,
rather than hunting a past level
for yellow circles.

On this list, if a game has a
number or time next to it, that
is the score or time I got on
that challenge to earn a gold
medal. It isn't the best way to
tell people what they need to
achieve to get a gold, but it
works for now.

(C-1) Casino Strip

	*Orb Dash - 1.09.50 (Rye)
	*Urban Removal 42 (Rye)
	*Fly High - 1517 (Rye)
	*Losing It - 1.00.32
	*Swing Batter, Swing - 11,534
	*Toss It - 1,078
	*Trash The Place - 55880 (Rye)
	*Time Trial - 18.16(Rye)

(C-2) Tranquility

*Hold Out - 2.10.13 (Rye)
*Vandalism - 47.83 (Rye) *Melee
Mayhem - 5,600 *Orb Spree -
34.60 (Rye) *Traffic Light Smash
Up - 17 *Object Toss - 1295
(Rye) *Drone Extermination -
38.43 (mmarcopolo321)

(C-3) The Arctic

*Collect The Orbs - .49.83 (Rye)
*Jump The Floes - 1201 (Rye)
*Sets Of Three - 1.21.23 (Rye)

(C-4) Hoover Dam

*Dam Race - 34.89 (Rye) *Own The
Drone - 32 (Rye) *Everything
Must Go - 1,355 *Destruction
List - 1.46.63 (mmarcopolo321)
*Survivor - 8.24.30 (Rye)
*Collect Them All - .38.60 (Rye)

Note: If you see a name next to
a time, that is the person who
got it and sent me the info.
Also, Rye stated that in the
times he achieved, he used the
Recon Chopper, the Beater and
the Raider. Thanks to everyone
who helped with this.

(W-6) Endgame

So, you've finished the game and
you haven't gotten your fill of
these wacky robots yet. What are
you to do? Well, I'll list out
all the stuff that needs to be
done before you can truly say
you've finished everything.

*Story mode
*All gold medals on Challenge
 missions
*All vehicle forms collected
 (including the jet from Target)
*All cheats unlocked
*Level up to level 20 - you gain
 the ability to replenish your
 own health
... after all that, you can
still attempt to win the
Allspark Wars for your team!

(W-7) Lists

Note: Here are a couple of
helpful, quick reference lists.
If you have anything at all to
add, please email me and let me
know.

(L-1) Vehicle list

This is the list of vehicles as
it appears on your Vehicle Form
menu (Pause). Once you have a
vehicle scan, your personal
Transformer can always use that
form. When on story missions
where you play as another
Autobot, you will only have the
ability to transform into their
specific vehicle, though scans
as another Autobot count and
will be available to your base
robot.

*Beater - Available from start
*Sportster - Available on 2nd
visit to Tranquility *SUV -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Armored Truck -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Chopper - Gained
during "Follow That Convoy"
mission (The Arctic) *Notchback
- Available on 1st visit to
Tranquility *Import - Available
on 2nd visit to Tranquility
*Attack Copter - Hidden vehicle
- Found in small base at Hoover
Dam *Peace Van - Hidden vehicle
- Found near dam in Hoover Dam
level *Pickup - Available on 1st
visit to Tranquility *Utility -
Available on 1st visit to
Tranquility *Pickup Car -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Moving Truck -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *School Bus -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Longhorn - Unlocked
with WiFi tokens (250) *Gunner -
Unlocked with WiFi tokens (750)
*Flame Truck - Available on 2nd
visit to Tranquility *Ice Cream
Truck - Available on 2nd visit
to Tranquility *Recon Chopper -
Available on 3rd visit
Tranquility *Lightning Rider -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Death Truck -
Available on 2nd visit to
Tranquility *Tricked Out Car -
Available on 3rd visit to
Tranquility *Funky Bus -
Available after signing onto
Allspark Wars for 1st time
*Racer- Available on 3rd visit
to Tranquility *Maintenance
Truck - Complete the game once
*Hot Rodder - Available on 2nd
visit to Tranquility *Stealth
Chopper - Gained during "Happy
Landings" mission (Tranquility
2) *Safari Truck - Hidden
vehicle - Found at campsite near
water at Hoover Dam *SWAT Van -
Hidden vehicle - Found near
Buggy location in "Know Thy
Enemy" *News Copter - Hidden
vehicle - Found on Casino Strip
rooftop *Off-Roader - Available
on 2nd visit to Tranquility
*Raider - Hidden vehicle - Found
near docks in Tranquility
*Speedster - Available on 3rd
visit to Tranquility *Police
Copter - Available on 2nd visit
to Tranquility *Transport -
Unlocked with WiFi tokens
*Prison Bus - Available on 3rd
visit to Tranquility *Skydive -
Obtained at Target download
station (yes, Target...the
store)

(L-2) Playable Autobots

*Autobot #1: Hey, that's you!
 Now, it is the generic Autobot
 that you'll be in
charge of most of the time. Your
stats will get boosted as you
level up.

*Bumblebee: Yellow Transformer
 who changes into a yellow 60's
 era hotrod (Think
Joe Dirt's car). Bumblebee
doesn't have the great ranged
attack stats that some of the
others have, but his speed and
agility make him a valuable team
member.

*Jazz: Grey Transformer who
 turns into a sports car that
 resembles a DeLorean
with rounded edges. He has
pretty good stats all around,
but his high speed stat (max)
makes him a valuable Autobot.
His heavy ranged attack sucks,
though.

*Ironhide: Grey Transformer who
 guides you through the tutorial
 and quite a few
missions afterward. His
unbelievable stats make Ironhide
one of the best Transformers in
the game; he is good at
everything.

*Optimus Prime: The best
 Transformer in the game - hands
 down. His stats are
almost all maxed out, with the
exception of agility, which is
still very high in comparison to
most of the others.

*Ratchet: Just a good, all
 around Autobot. He does pack
 the wallop that some of
the stronger ones do, but you
should be able to handle him
fairly well, as his stats are
pretty close to your default
Autobot's levels.

(W-8) Extras And Secrets

Note: Since this doesn't really
belong in any of these three
subsections, I'll put it here.
To reset your wanted level and
refill your health, simply
select a different vehicle to
transform into. This only works
in Free Play mode. Thanks to
bloodwatch for this info.

(U-1) Cheats

There are four unlockable cheats
in the game. No one has yet
unlocked all of them, so this
section will remained unfinished
for now. The first of the four
cheats is Armageddon mode, which
you get for completing the game.
This section will remain
incomplete until someone emails
me the info on the last three
cheats.

**Update**

I figured out the rest of the
cheats so...here you go.

*Armageddon mode - Beat the game
 once
*Infinete health - Collect 1,000
 WiFi tokens
*Computer Cars Go Crazy - 500
 WiFi tokens
*Infinite energy - 1,000 WiFi
 tokens

...and this is completely off-
topic and has nothing to do with
the Transformers game, but
doesn't "Computer Cars Go Crazy"
sound like the best emo band
name ever (and no, I don't
listen to emo. Power metal all
the way!)?

(U-2) Secret Vehicles

These are the secret vehicles
found in the game. They are
considered "secret" because they
are usually one of a kind and
are stashed in some very strange
places. Some secret vehicles can
be unlocked by collect WiFi
tokens and one last, elusive
vehicle can only be unlocked by
visiting a Target store's DS
download station. Basically, if
you don't see a vehicle driving
around the streets, I'll list it
here.

*Attack Copter - Hidden vehicle
 - Found in small base at Hoover
 Dam
*Peace Van - Hidden vehicle -
 Found near dam in Hoover Dam
 level
*Longhorn - Unlocked with WiFi
 tokens (250)
*Gunner - Unlocked with WiFi
 tokens (750)
*Funky Bus - Available after
 signing onto Allspark Wars for
 1st time
*Maintenance Truck - Complete
 the game once
*Safari Truck - Hidden vehicle -
 Found at campsite near water at
 Hoover Dam
*SWAT Van - Hidden vehicle -
 Found near Buggy location in
 "Know Thy Enemy"
*News Copter - Hidden vehicle -
 Found on Casino Strip rooftop
*Raider - Hidden vehicle - Found
 near docks in Tranquility
*Transport - Unlocked with WiFi
 tokens
*Skydive - Hidden vehicle -
 Obtained from Target DS Station
 download

(U-3) The elusive jet and the
download station blues

According to both the GameFAQs
message boards and a Target
circular ad, Skydive the jet
fighter is only available
through a download from DS
Download stations in Target
stores. There have been a lot of
questions about this so I'll try
to clear things up here.

Q: How do I download from
Target? A: Bring your DS and the
Transformers game to your local
Target store. Turn your DS on
while standing near a DS
Download station (the test DS
available for people to try
out). Select download play and
follow the instructions. Viola!
The jet is yours.

Q: I don't live near a Target -
what can I do? A: Sadly,
nothing. Until a new way to get
the jet is figured out, you'll
just have to live with the fact
that you might never see it.

Q: Is there any other way to get
the jet? A: There is ONE way and
that is inputting codes (section
U-5 of this FAQ) into your
Action replay...assuming you
have one. I don't. The codes
were sent to me so I can't say
for sure if they work.

Q: Is the jet really worth all
this trouble? A: It is pretty
cool, but I'm partial to the
Recon Chopper personally.

(U-4) Easter Eggs

* The Maintenance Truck
(unlocked by finishing the game)
is a reference to Hoist, a
Transformer from the original
cartoon. Hoist is not in the
game, but one of the developers
must have liked him enough to
create this reference (Thanks to
BumblebeeZ3 for this info).

*In Tranquility, a ship can be
seen in the water near the
docks. The name of the ship (on
its side) is the USS Seaspray.
Seaspray is also a hovercraft
Transformer from the original
cartoon. Like Hoist, he is
unplayable - he is mentioned by
name only (Thanks to BumblebeeZ3
for this info).

(U-5) Action Replay codes

These codes were sent to me by
Rendvous. If you see him (or
her) on the street, give them a
hug. I don't have an Action
Replay, so I have not personally
tested these codes.

*Get Skydive (the Target
 exclusive jet) or G1 Starscream
 (Decepticons version)

620ADC2C 00000000
B20ADC2C 00000000
00000004 00000001
D2000000 00000000

*Trick game into making all
 vehicles available (only works
 when cheat is
on...not permanent)

0203152C E3A00001
02031530 E8BD8038

*Infinite energy and infinite
 health

520DAC50 E8BD8070
020DAC54 E5902134
020DAC60 E580213C
020DAC6C E5902138
020DAC78 E5802140
020DAC80 E5802040
D2000000 00000000

Again, I have not tried these
codes. Rendvous assures me that
they are safe and contain no
unfortunate side effects like
nausea, sleeplessness, trouble
urinating or save erasure.

(W-9) Online

(O-1) Allspark Wars
rules/systems

Basically online play in this
game is a leaderboard
competition with the two
versions (Autobots and
Decepticons) competing. To
start, you'll sign on to the
Allspark Wars just like you'd
sign onto any online game. Note:
This unlocks the Funky Bus
vehicle form the first time you
do it.

After you are on, you'll be able
to do a few things. First and
foremost, find out the challenge
for the day (it changes once
every 24 hours). The challenges
are just the challenge missions
in the game. Play the challenge,
get the highest score you can
and the game will post your
stats online. Check back the
following day to see which side
(Autobots or Decepticons) "won",
or got a better set of scores.
If you participated, you'll get
some WiFi tokens, which unlock a
few new vehicles and some other
stuff.

Also, from the Allspark Wars
main menu, you can find out your
game specific code. Write it
down and use a computer to go to
this site -

www.transformersgame.com/ds

You'll be able to register using
that code. All this really
accomplishes is giving you a way
to see just who is doing the
best on either side of this war.
It is a neat idea, but it isn't
really anything too substantial.

If you have anything to add,
email me and I'll credit you for
the info.

(O-2) Online only unlockables

There are a few unlockables in
the game you can only get by
competing online. Here is a
(incomplete) list of what we
know so far.

*Funky Bus vehicle - Sign onto
 the Allspark Wars once
*Longhorn vehicle - Obtain 250
 WiFi tokens
*Gunner vehicle - 500 WiFi
 tokens
*Transport vehicle - 1,000 WiFi
 tokens

It has been rumored that the
last three unlockable cheats are
gained by WiFi competition, but
it hasn't yet been confirmed.
Email me with any info and I'll
credit you with the discovery.

(W-10) Glitches

(G-1) Beware the COMBAT AREA

This tidbit was sent to me by
Tuck, so all credit for this
goes to him. If someone wants to
figure out exactly what makes
the game do this, email me and
I'll post it here.

This is a glitch that was
recently brought to my
attention. It seem that when
fighting the game's bosses
(Brawl and Megatron in
particular), if you stray too
far from them, you get a message
stating that you have left the
combat area. In some cases,
though, this "combat area" can
vary in size, shape or even
existence. For example, I lost a
battle with Megatron for leaving
the combat area even though we
were literally facing each other
and close enough to make out.
Other incidents with this
include Brawl's disappearance
from the fight altogether and
Megatron getting bored and
simply running away from you -
both leading to combat area game
overs. If you have an answer to
this little problem, or have
noticed something I didn't,
email me and we'll get it worked
out.

(G-2) Brawl 2: Electric Boogaloo

This one was brought to my
attention by torch123456. When I
was playing through the game I
thought I noticed this as well.
This glitch appears at the
Hoover Dam and only during story
missions - before and after the
Brawl fight.

First, torch123456 opened my
eyes to a very obvious strategy.
When you are at the dam, simply
toss all the enemies of the edge
for instant kill after instant
kill.

Anyway, sometimes as you toss
enemies around, whether you've
beaten him or not, Brawl will
appear out of nowhere for no
reason at all. He is no more
difficult to kill than your
average robot. Also, instead of
his old form, he now transforms
into the Stealth Copter.

This glitch does actually do
anything, for better or worse.
It is just kind of neat to see.
Again, info goes to torch12345.

(G-3) The Rainbow Connection

No, this isn't a reference to
the end of "The Muppet Movie,"
though it is one of the greatest
films of our time (What's a
Muppet? It's not quite a mop and
not quite a puppet but...oh
man... To answer your question,
I don't know).

This was brought to my attention
by torch123456. I noticed in a
few palces as well, but until
someone else said something, I
chose not to make a big deal
about it.

Sometimes, when you are jumping
around the city, you'll notice
that instead of the normal
cracks in the ground, the square
will instead be a bunch of
rainbow dots resembling a test
pattern on a broken television
set (showing my age here...TVs
now just go to blue screen when
busted). The glitch doesn't
affect the game in any way, but
it is something to keep an eye
out for.

(W-11) Thanks and anti-thanks

Thanks...

*to Activision and everyone
 involved in making this
 excellent game
*to Nintendo for showing every
 other game company how it is
 done
*another thanks to Nintendo for
 stopping Manhunt 2 from hitting
 the Wii - only
idiots play violent games that
are only violent to stir up
controversy and those people
have the PS3 to keep their
teenage minds warped
*one more thanks to Nintendo for
 giving us the DS and Wii -
 truly the best game
systems since the SNES
*to my family for not getting
 pissed when I shut them out for
 video games, which
is even worse now that I started
writing these guides
*to Wendi for being supportive
 and, even more importantly,
 quiet
*to www.honestgamer.com for
 getting me the copies of the
 games and letting me
write the reviews on them
*to Artie - The Strongest Man in
 the World
*to the DS General board for
 quietly weeding out the trolls
 (DisgaeaNut)
*to the 80's and Hasbro for the
 Transformers cartoon and toys
*to whoever came up with Guitar
 Hero...such an awesome game...
*to the Jerk Store - even though
 they constantly run out of
 people in my life
*to Hector, Wordsworth, Mungo,
 Riff-Raff and Cleo
*...and to you, for reading and
 possibly adding to my guide!

Anti-thanks...

*to people who compare this game
 to GTA (aka the suckiest series
 of games ever
created...well...no, they are
worse than the Madden games)
*to Gamestop for inventing
 "shipping dates" because they
 can't get new product
into stores quickly enough
*to the anti-Wii crowd on
 GameFAQs Wii General board
*to Loana for getting me
 interviews and backstage passes
 at power metal shows
*to teenagers who, heaven help
 them, are wrong about
 everything 100% of the time
*to Cobb County - oh, they know
 why...
*to Funimation, for not
 releasing the DBZ box sets
 quickly enough
*and to Bambi, the world's worst
 woman and owner of the "Least
 Class and/or
Grace of 2007" award - which is
only handed out to the worst of
people

...and one more time, if you
have any info to add to this
guide, email me at nimerjm at
hotmail dot com with
Transformers FAQ in the subject
bar.

Thanks for reading!

