

__  __            ______ _____  
_ \/ /_______________  /____(_)_
__  /_  __ \_  ___/_  __ \_  /__
_  / / /_/ /(__  )_  / / /  / _(
/_/  \____//____/ /_/ /_//_/  /_

     _________   _________
______ _____________  /   __  __
_  __ `/_  __ \  __  /    _  / _
/ /_/ /_  / / / /_/ /     / /_/ 
\__,_/ /_/ /_/\__,_/      \____/


================================
Yoshi's Touch & Go FAQ Copyright
(c)2005 Sarah Dodd 9th Feb 2005
Do not reproduce this FAQ
without the owners express
permission Email: chamaelleo
[at] aol [dot] com
================================



============================
Contents
============================

1) 	Notices and Updates
	 -Version

2) 	The Game
	 -The Story
	 -Enemies

3) 	Controls
	 -Clouds
	 -Eggs
	 -Jumping
	 -Blowing

4) 	The Stages
	 -Baby Mario Stage
	 -Yoshi Stage

5) 	The Main Modes
	 -Score Attack
	 -Endless
	 -Time Attack
	 -Challenge

6) 	Types of Level
	 -Endless stages

7) 	Multiplayer/VS
8) 	Yoshi Colours
9) 	Fruit
10) 	Unlockables + extras
11) 	Tactics

12) 	Disclaimer
13) 	Contact Information
14)	Thanks



============================
Notices and Updates
============================

This is my first FAQ! Though
I've been gaming for many, many
years I've never got round to
writing one of these outside
work. Therefore, please bear
with me, no doubt I'll probably
miss some things! Please do
contact me if you have any
information that I have omitted.

Version
--------
Version 1. 9th Feb 2005 Version
2. 11th Feb 2005 Updated further
information that has come to
light after playing more. Added
descriptions for the types of
level. Corrected some grammar,
formatting and spelling.

Version 2.1 12th Feb 2005
Updated some grammatical and
formatting problems. Added a
small amount of information.

Version 2.2 12th Feb 2005 Added
two more pieces of information
and a thanks section.




============================
The Game
============================

My Japanese is not fantastic, so
I won't try and translate the
manual, nor much of the game
(refer to the Japanese
translation by Trinity).
However, this game needs very
little knowledge of Japanese to
play, if any, and will no doubt
still be relevant information
for future Western releases.

The story
---------
Poor Baby Mario and Luigi are
snatched from a stalk who was
flying them off to their
awaiting parents. With the help
of various coloured Yoshis, you
must guide baby mario to safety
(though the exact objective
changes depending on which stage
you're playing - see The Modes).

This game could be considered to
be short and limited, to a
point. The only comparison it
has with previous Yoshi titles
is its name. Aside from the, the
action revolves around puzzle
and side scrolling shooter type
games. The player never has any
real control over Yoshi, other
than effecting the path infront
of him by laying clouds and
moving enemies.

It has 4 main modes, a
multiplayer VS option (single
pak) and an unlockable Balloon
popping mini-game.

You are battling yourself (and
no doubt your friends) to gain
the highest colour Yoshi
possible, and the highest score
possible, and in many cases,
both. It can become as addictive
as any good classic side-
scroller (think Defender and so
forth), and less predictable, as
the stages you come across are
often placed in a random order
and spliced together, and as you
go further, many more enemies
will be thrown your way, meaning
you need a great deal of
concentration and hand eye
coordination!

Enemies
---------
There are a variety of enemies
and obstacles within Yoshi's
Touch and Go. These include
Baron Von Zeppelin (from Yoshi's
Island fame), shyguys, a variety
of flyguys (normal, with bombs,
and divebombers) monkeys, spiky
mines (red and green), fish,
ghosts, piranhas and birds, all
trying to stop Yoshi advancing.

All of these can be dispatched
with an egg, and all can be
circled in clouds with the
exception of spiky mines and
blue fish (and anything in the
top screen of course). Any
missiles fired at you from an
enemy (monkeys, flyguys) can be
stopped with a well placed egg.



============================
Controls
============================

With the stylus, you can have a
number of effects.

Clouds
--------
First and foremost, by touching
the screen and dragging the
stylus, lines of clouds are
produced to aid Baby Marios fall
or Yoshi's path.

These clouds can also be used to
make bubbles by drawing a
circle. If this is done around
an enemy, it will turn into an
amount of coins. You can now
throw or push this bubble around
to make it go where you wish.
Thrown fast enough, they can
push baby mario and Yoshi off
course slightly.

Eggs
--------
On the Yoshi stage, tapping on
the screen will fire an egg in
the direction of the crosshairs
on screen. By doing this, you
can hit things out of reach and
rebound eggs off walls to
capture otherwise unreachable
coins. You can also make fruit
fall from its position so that
Yoshi can eat it and replenish
eggs. When baby mario turns into
super mario, he can fire star
missiles the same way.

Jumping
--------
By tapping on Yoshi/on his feet,
he will jump. This is very
useful for those times when
you've got him stuck in a heap
clouds or for dodging obstacles.
If timed well, you can also jump
on the heads of certain enemies
to dispatch them.

By tapping again on Yoshi once
he is in the air, he will
perform his infamous 'flying'
move, which prolongs his time in
the air. By pressing on him
repeatedly at the correct time
(just before he starts falling
again), you can make him cross
much larger gaps with this move.
He will also do this
automatically for a short time
if he runs out of path.

Blowing
--------
By blowing on the microphone
(however not in multiplayer),
the player can clear all clouds
that are present on the screen.
This is very useful if you've
mis-drawn a path, or got Yoshi
trapped.

Another way of getting rid of
bundles of unwanted clouds is to
rub the stylus up and down
behind Yoshi, creating lines of
clouds. As there is a finite
number of clouds, this will
clear any blocking his path.



============================
The Stages
============================

Each of the 4 modes (Score
Attack, Endless, Time Attack and
Challenge) are split into 2
stages, the Baby Mario stage,
and the Yoshi stage.

Baby Mario Stage
----------------
In the Baby Mario (henceforth
'BM') stage, you guide BM
downwards, towards the ground,
by drawing clouds that he can
fall onto, avoiding enemies and
pushing him into the line of
coins and stars. BM has three
balloons attached to his back
(lucky that!) to aid his fall,
and thus you are able to
'safely' touch 2 enemies before
the last balloon bursts and BM
plunges to his doom.

BM stays in the top screen at
all times, so you never actually
touch him. You pre-empt his fall
by creating pathways to make him
fall in the direction you want.
While doing this, you can also
circle enemies to trap them and
turn them into coins, thus
clearing a path for BM and
adding to the score by throwing
these coin filled bubbles
towards him.

Depending on what score is
reached, varying colours of
Yoshi will appear to catch him
in the nick of time when the
stage finishes. The other major
importance of these different
coloured Yoshis (apart from
being marked on your high score)
is that they can each hold more
eggs than the previous colour.
This simple fact becomes
absolutely invaluable in later
stages of Endless or harder
stages such as Time attack and
Challenge, when you have many
enemies to contend with, and
running out of eggs isn't a safe
option!

In the BM stage of both Time
Attack and Challenge, little
stars will be scattered
throughout the stage, turning BM
into super BM if he touches them
(taking its lead from Yoshi's
Island). At this point BM speeds
up and becomes invincible,
meaning he can kill enemies on
touch. On the Yoshi parts of the
stages, super BM can also fire
an unlimited number of star
missiles into the air to clear
paths and gain as many more star
points as possible (explained
later).

Yoshi Stage
------------
In the 2nd part of each level,
you take control of Yoshi. Yoshi
is constantly travelling to the
right, so you must act quickly.
This now becomes something akin
to a side-scrolling shooter and
platformer. Yoshi can fire eggs
at enemies and switches, against
walls and at fruit (which
replenish eggs). At the same
time, the user can circle most
enemies (certain spiky enemies
cannot be caught) to trap them
in bubbles and turn them into
coins, making them harmless.
Fruit can also be caught in
bubbles so that they can be
dragged to Yoshi's location.

Obviously, as only the bottom DS
screen is a touch screen, only
enemies on the bottom screen can
be circled in such a manner, so
you'll have to dispatch things
on the top screen with eggs.
Whilst doing all this, the
player will need to be
continually drawing a path of
clouds for Yoshi using the
stylus. Though Yoshi can walk on
the ground, there are many
various gaps (and even stages
where the wind will blow away
everything draw so far), so the
player has to constantly be
aware of the path ahead.



============================
The Main Modes
============================

Yoshi's Touch and Go opens with
2 playable modes. Score Attack
and Endless. Challenge Mode can
be opened when you have reached
over 3000 metres in Endless, and
Time Attack when you have
reached over 300 points in Score
Attack (i.e. achieving first
place on the leaderboards).

Score Attack
-------------
Score Attack is just that, a
stage to gain as high a score as
possible before reaching the end
of the stage, If you gain a high
enough score, baby Luigi will be
flown down by the stalk to meet
you at the end of the Stage. The
layout of both the Mario Stage
and Yoshi Stage of Score Attack,
and the enemies on each, are
constant.

Endless
-------------
Endless is a supposedly endless
mode in which you aim for the
longest distance possible. After
playing the BM stage, Yoshi
picks him up and sets on his
way. At every 1000 metres Yoshi
will hand over BM to another
Yoshi for a further and more
difficult 1000 metres. Depending
on what colour Yoshi you
achieved on the BM stage, you
will sometimes upgrade colours.
Once Black Yoshi has been
achieved (can be as early as the
end of the BM stage if you gain
over 160 points), you will not
upgrade until the 10k metre mark
unless you achieve a performance
related arctic blue/white yoshi.

Another important thing to note
is the star system. Gaining
points by hitting enemies adds
to the counter. When you reach
100, the star will flash, and
(depending on where you are in
your current 1000 metres) a
little star in a small bubble
with soon appear on stage.
Dragging this to Yoshi will turn
mario into super mario. He can
now run along, invincible,
shooting an infinite number of
star missiles until he changes
back to BM and Yoshi takes over.
He also jumps much higher and
runs much faster, and if you
play well and are in an enemy
filled area, you can stack up a
high star number before giving
control back to Yoshi, meaning
you are almost ready to change
back again. If you are near the
end of the stage, the star will
appear at the beginning of your
next 1000m.

Time Attack
-------------
Time Attack Mode sees Luigi
carried off by group of Baron
Von Zeppelins (see Yoshi's
Island). You must rescue him as
quickly as possible. To do this,
once controlling Yoshi, you must
rush through the stage until
Baby Luigi appears in the
clutches of the Baron Von
Zeppelin. To release him, have
yoshi shoot eggs at the Baron
Von Zeppelins. When this is done
a few times consecutively, one
Baron Von Zeppelin will drop
off. You must hit him quickly
before he rejoins the group to
have him disappear completely.
Continue this until all the
Baron Von Zeppelins are gone and
Baby Luigi will drop into the
cranes grasp. In the BM stage of
this mode, stars appear for the
first time (see BM stage under
'the stages').

Challenge
-------------
Challenge is another mode in
which you are aiming for the
longest distance possible.
However in Challenge you are up
against more than just enemies.
After the BM stage (which
includes stars), Yoshi will be
up against a timer in the top
right of the screen, which ticks
down as you progress. When the
timer reaches 0, a Baron Von
Zeppelin will kidnap mario and
your distance score is recorded.
To fill the timer, you must
shoot enemies and obstructions.
As usual, bonuses (by catching
two or more enemies together, or
by hitting many obstructions in
a row) add extra time.



============================
Types of level
============================

There are various different
types of Yoshi and Mario stage
you will come across in Yoshi's
Touch and Go.

The Mario stages are very
similar. The layout of the
enemies and coins will change
through set patterns, and the
background will change also.

The Yoshi stages have the most
variety, however still follow
similar guides. Each of the
Yoshi stages (or every new
1000m) has an underground area
in the middle, usually
completely devoid of enemies,
and often filled with fruit and
big scoring coins.

Endless mode stages
--------------------
There are also 6 main Yoshi
stage variations for Endless.
1) The background is adorned
   with rock formations, from
   which appear spiky
ball throwing enemies. Lots of
coins only available by bouncing
eggs off walls.
2) Most of the level is
   underground, with large
   caverns and small tunnels,
often making for tricky
shooting. Filled with bomb
throwing flyguys, bats and
ghosts.
3) Grey platforms are scattered
   over this level, which will
   wobble and fall
if Yoshi stays on them. A wind
will sometimes pick up, blowing
away all clouds on the screen
(you will get an audio and
visual clue just before this
happens.
4) There are many bridges in
   this stage, covering water
   and jumping
fishes. Watch for the blue spiky
fishes which can only be hurt
with eggs.
5) A jungle like stage, your
   biggest enemies are the
   monkeys climbing up and
down the trees throwing spiky
balls (and sometimes bananas).
6) A plain stage, with an
   average amount of drops,
   water, and a variety of
enemies.

All the above appear randomly
throughout Endless. As you
progress, the number of enemies
and difficulty increases though
you may replay the same stage
layout.

Challenge uses a jungle and
plain scenario, with a large
amount of spiky mines blocking
your way.

Time Attack has a few large
hills, taking Yoshi into the top
screen and uses a plain
background.

Score Attack uses the plain
setup also and has a constant
layout.



============================
Multiplayer / VS
============================

The multiplayer on Yoshi's Touch
and Go is single pak, meaning
you only need one copy of the
game to play a versus match. The
premise is to reach the Goal
line (at 1000m) first, though in
practice this seems to happen
quite rarely as you can make
things very difficult for your
opponent by your actions. You
are able to see you opponents
screen in the top DS screen, as
well as the distance they have
reached.

Each screen will have a random
layout of spiky green mines and
fruit,# however you can add
further problems to your
challenger by hitting 3 or more
obstacles in a row with an egg.
This will cause an identical
number of red mines to appear in
random positions on your
opponents screen, making for a
tricky situation.

It may be worth noting that by
keeping Yoshi on the clouds, he
will move at a greater speed
than if walking along the
ground.



============================
Yoshi colours
============================

==========		==========		========
Points			Colour			Egg amount
==========		==========		========
<60			Green Yoshi		20
60-79			Sky Blue Yoshi		25
80-99			Pink Yoshi		30
100-119			Dark Blue Yoshi		35
120-139			Yellow Yoshi		40
140-159			Red Yoshi		45
160+			Black Yoshi		50

For every point above 160 score
in the baby mario stage, Black
Yoshi will carry one more egg in
his respective stage. Thus if
you gain a score of 172 in the
baby mario mode, Black Yoshi
will carry 62 eggs.

10000m Endless Bronze Yoshi 60
Performance related White Yoshi
Unlimited

In Endless mode, white Yoshi is
sometimes achieved at the end of
a set of 1000m White Yoshi will
remain in play for 1000m before
handing back to Black Yoshi. If
you are on White Yoshi from
9000m to 10000m, he will hand
over to bronze yoshi instead.

White yoshi has an unlimited
supply of eggs which lasts for
the duration of his 1000m. It
seems that the performance of
the previous 1000m (number of
enemies killed/number of times
turned into super mario) bears
an effect on whether you'll
change to white yoshi or not.

Let me know if you find any
more!



============================
Fruit
============================

Fruit appears intermittently
throughout the levels. If not
already in reach, you may hit it
with eggs to make it drop onto
your awaiting path, or circle it
and drag it to Yoshi yourself.

==========		====================
Type of Fruit Number of Eggs
replenished
==========		====================
Apple				1
Banana				3
Watermelon			5
Grape				10
Melon				20



============================
Unlockables and extras
============================

As mentioned, Challenge Mode can
be opened when you have reached
over 3000 metres in Endless, and
Time Attack when you have
reached over 300 points in Score
Attack.

The different colour Yoshis are
mentioned above. Having played
to 10,000m on Endless with a
black Yoshi, you upgrade to a
orange/bronze yoshi. You can
also briefly ride on a
white/artic blue yoshi if you do
particularly well in the
previous 1000m.

Yoshi's Touch and Go also
includes a pictochat seeking
ability, meaning you can decide
whether to be alerted (by sound
or icon) if someone enters a
pictochat room in your vicinity,
and from the game, transport
straight into pictochat (no
doubt to challenge the person to
a game of Yoshi multiplayer
immediately)!

On the highscore board, the
Yoshi icon will have either a
closed or open (smiling) mouth.
Yoshi will have an open mouth if
the score has been ahieved in
one go from the baby mario stage
to the end of the yoshi stage,
without restarting the Yoshi
stage again. (Thanks to
TripSkyWay)

Balloon Pop mini-game
----------------------
Once you achieve a high score in
each of the four stages,
different coloured balloons will
begin to float along the title
screen. Popping one of these by
pressing the right side of the
screen takes you to this mini-
game. While active, you must pop
as many of the coloured balloons
as possible in a given amount of
time. Some coloured balloons
seem to give a larger score than
others, and have varying sounds
too.



============================
Tactics
============================

By circling two or more enemies
or coins within clouds, you can
cause a bubble to turn gold and
add a bonus to the amount you
would normally received.

Eggs are your most valuable
commodity in this game. As such,
getting a high coloured Yoshi in
the BM stage is very helpful for
stages such as Endless. Also,
there is absolutely no need to
shoot eggs at every enemy on
screen, though tempting - you
will soon run out. Instead,
circle enemies on the lower
screen, preferably 2 or more
together making for bonuses, and
use your eggs for the top
screen, hitting those valuable
egg producing fruit, or ridding
yourself of fast moving or spiky
enemies in your direct path.

Particularly in Endless, your
aim is to go as far as possible.
If you want to gain a great
distance, you'd be wise you save
your eggs! Apart from getting
enough points to turn mario
super, you don't need to kill
everything you see
- just clear a path along the bo
you have enough stars to
powerup, use it to maximum
effect, hopefully making you
well over half way towards
another powerup star before you
regain control of Yoshi.

On the baby mario stage, you
will receive a bonus for
collecting the coins without
missing any - this is apparent
when you miss one, and a number
will flash up, showing how many
you got in a row.

At the end of the baby mario
stage, you can hit the treetops
with the stylus to find further
hidden coins, hopefully pushing
you towards that next Yoshi
colour!



============================
Disclaimer:
============================

Copyright (c)2005 Sarah Dodd All
rights reserved. Please do not
modify or reproduce this
document without the express
permission of the author. All
trademarks and copyrights
contained in this document are
owned by their respective
trademark and copyright holders.
The data contained herein is
provided for informational
purposes only.



============================
Contact information:
============================

If you have any further info or
anything you think has been
omitted, constructive thoughts
and comments, or just want to
say hi, do get in touch at
Chamaelleo [at] aol [dot] com



============================
Thanks
============================

Thanks goes to:

TripSkyWay, for further
information regarding white
Yoshi and confirmation of the
open/closed mouth icon.

Hanafuda for putting up a high
score page and a great review,
making me want to write this
faq.

FORTIX for first discovering the
white yoshi and pushing me to do
so!

To all three for constantly
updating their own high scores
for some great competition.