
Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia

Table of Contents:

1. Introduction
   Character Control............
   Glyph System.................
   About Terminology............
   What this Guide has, and does
2. Walkthrough
   Part 1: The Search for Albus
 Ecclesia.......................
 Monastery......................
 Wygol Village..................
 Ruvas Forest...................
 Kalidus Channel................
 Minera Prison Island...........
 Lighthouse.....................
 Kalidus Channel................
 Tymeo Mountains................
 Misty Forest Road..............
 Skeleton Cave..................
 Backtracking: Wygol Village....
 Backtracking: Minera Prison Isl
 Backtracking: Misty Forest Road
 Backtracking: Tymeo Mountains..
 Backtracking: Monastery........
 Somnus Reef....................
 Giant's Dwelling...............
 Tristis Pass...................
 Oblivion Ridge.................
 Backtracking: Ecclesia.........
 Argila Swamp...................
 Mystery Manor..................
 Backtracking: Ecclesia.........
   Part 2: Storming Dracula's Ca
 Castle Entrance................
 Library........................
 Backtracking: Castle Entrance..
 Underground Labyrinth..........
 Backtracking: Misty Forest Road
 Backtracking: Tymeo Mountains..
 Backtracking: Underground Labyr
 Barracks.......................
 Mechanical Tower...............
 Forsaken Cloister..............
 Backtracking: Mechanical Tower.
 Arms Depot.....................
 Forsaken Cloister..............
 Final Approach.................
3. Extras
 Hidden Areas...................
  Large Cavern..................
  Training Hall.................
 Villagers......................
 Alternate Boss Strategies......
4. Tables.......................
   ..........[Table1]
 Enemies........................
 Glyphs.........................
5. Credit
6. Version History

7. Contact Information
8. Copyrights


=--------------=
+ Introduction +
=--------------=

Character Controls [Contr1] In
Game Controls A- Hold to
activate the Glyph Sleeve, push
L or R while holding A to cycle

   through your Glyph sets
B- Jump, push B again while in
midair to double jump after
obtaining the
   ordinary rock, push down + B 
Y- Attack with the Glyph
equipped to this button, push up
and Y to perform a
   Glyph Union
X- Attack with the Glyph
equipped to this button, push up
and X to perform a
   Glyph Union
L- Backdash R- Activate your
equipped Support Glyph Select-
Toggle the top screen between
map and Shanoa/enemy data Start-
Pause the game, skip through the
dialogue sections Control Pad
Left- Move left Control Pad
Right- Move right Control Pad
Up- Absorb a Glyph, or fly
upwards when using the Volaticus
Glyph Control Pad Down- kneel
down, press down and B to drop
through some ledges


In Menu Controls

A- Advance a menu, accept a
command

B- Go back a menu, cancel a
command

Start- Exit the menu Control Pad
Left- Move curser left, cycle
through Glyph sets

Control Pad Right- Move curser
right, cycle through Glyph sets

Control Pad Up- Move curser up
Control Pad Down- Move curser
down


Glyph System [Glyph1] OoE
utilizes a new system, known as
Glyphs. Glyphs are special
powers that Shanoa picks up
through the game. It mirrors
closely the soul system used in
Aria and Dawn of Sorrow, except
that not every monster in the
game drops Glyphs. Also new is
the fact that Shanoa doesn't use
physical weapons like previous
game heroes.

Instead, she uses attack Glyphs,
which mimic many of the older
game's weapons. She can equip
sword Glyphs, axe Glyphs, and
knife Glyphs, to name a few. In
addition, she can also use
lightning Glyphs, fire Glyphs,
light Glyphs, and so on. Every
attack uses MP, but this meter
recharges very quickly now. In
addition to that, Shanoa can
equip 2 Glyphs at a time to
attack with both of them
simultaneously, and perform
Glyph Unions where she combines
them to form an extra powerful
attack. This attack uses hearts,
instead of MP.

About Terminology [Termi1]
Throughout the walkthrough,
you'll find quite a few words
and phrases repeated. Some
examples of this are "hallway"
and "hall", which I always use
to signify a horizontal room
stretching multiple screens, and
"passage", which I use to
signify vertical rooms. Anything
labeled as a "room", large or
small, usually has a squarish or
rectangular shape.

Most exit locations are listed
as "upper left" or "lower left",
etc. Unless otherwise noted,
this almost universally means in
the wall of the room, not the
ceiling or floor.

When I begin a new area, or a
revisiting of an old area, I
list the stat block for that
area. This block includes any
enemies seen in the area, any
items in the area, including the
number of random chests, the
possible contents of the random
chests, any Glyphs to find, and,
for the first part of the
walkthrough, any villagers.

What this block does not include
is any enemies that were already
listed if the block is for a
revisitation of an area (say,
for picking up new items or
exploring previously unreachable
portions) or items, Glyphs,
villagers, etc.

There are 6 types of treasure
chests. "Treasure chest" refers
to a location where you will
find either a common wooden
chest or a rare green chest.
Hidden chests are blue, and you
have to perform something
special to reveal them. Red
chests are only openable once,
and always contain the same
item, and the 3 golden chests in
the game each contain 1 relic.

What this Guide has, and
doesn't... [Guide1] This guide
contains a complete walkthrough,
all the way from the opening
conversation to the final round
of verbal sparring with Dracula
at the end of the game. It also
contains tables taken directly
from the game's indexes for all
of the enemies and Glyphs.

It has only a functional
villagers section; there are
plenty of other sources of
information, and someone already
beat me to this. I see no need
to replicate it here. It also
lacks an item section because,
quite honestly, I don't really
want to go through bossrush a
dozen times to fill in all the
items you get from beating it.
Also, again, this information is
available elsewhere.

=-------------=
+ Walkthrough +
=-------------=
Part 1: The Hunt for Albus

--------------------------------
Ecclesia [Eccle1]
--------------------------------
Enemies:  003 Skeleton
Items: Record 1, Record 5
Wood Chests: None
Green Chests: None
Glyphs: Confodere

The game opens with a young
woman with long hair and a blue
dress entering a door into
Ecclesia. This woman is Shanoa,
the heroine of this game.

   Shanoa: Who's there?
   Albus: ...Figures. Serves me 

   Albus materializes out of the

   Shanoa: Albus!
   Albus: Apparently I didn't hi
  you, Shanoa.
Shanoa: What are you doing here?
   Albus: Well, this is our home
   Shanoa: No, it's not that. Ar
   Albus: Yes, but I wanted to m
   Albus: Any news worth sharing
   Shanoa: Well, Barlowe chose m
   Shanoa: We're about to start 
  [Dominus].
   Albus: What did you say?! [Do
   Shanoa: That's right.
   Albus: This is an outrage! Ba
   Shanoa: Lied?
   Albus: I'm supposed to be the
   Shanoa: But, the master said 
   Albus: What? What did he tell
   Shanoa: ...that you're unfit.
   Albus: ...!?
   Albus: He would never say suc
   Shanoa: But Albus--

   Bells ring in the background.

   Shanoa: I'm sorry; it's time.

   Shanoa jumps onto a nearby pl

   Albus: Wait, Shanoa! You don'
   Shanoa: You're wrong. I'm as 
   Shanoa: Our sole purpose is t
  dawn without fearing the darkn
   Albus: That isn't--
   Shanoa: For that reason, I wi
   Albus: Shanoa...!

Continue up the series of
platforms to the top of the
passage. Make a quick stop on
the left platform with the blue
highlights and press down to
reveal a hidden treasure
containing record 1. Enter the
door on the right. The scene
shifts to Albus, still standing
where Shanoa left him.

   Albus: How could he!?
   Albus: Orders may be orders, 

   The scene shifts from Albus t

   Barlowe: Shanoa, as you know,
   Shanoa: Yes, Sir.
   Barlowe: Even so, it will be 
   Barlowe: The purpose of this 
   [Dominus].
   Shanoa: Yes, Sir. But when it
   Barlowe: That's right, Shanoa
   Glyph... [Dominus], which Ecc
   against Dracula.

 Shanoa runs onto the platform.

   Barlowe: I'm proud of you, Sh

   Three books float into the ai
   and three glyphs appear, whic
   with a cracking sound.

   Barlowe: What's going on!?
   Shanoa: Aaaaaaaaahhhhh!!!

   Light comes back to the scree
   books floating around his han

   Shanoa: You... Who... are...?
   Albus: .....

Shanoa collapses to the ground.

   Barlowe: What's the meaning o
   is!
   Albus: You lied to me.
   Barlowe: Albus--
   Albus: I was to be the bearer
   Barlowe: We each have a role!
   understand that.
   Barlowe: Above all else, Shan
   Dominus.
   Barlowe: You know that as wel
   Albus: I intended to overcome
   Barlowe: Perhaps we still can
   well...
   Albus: It's too late.

   Albus pulls all three books i

   Barlow: Tell me, Albus. What 
   Albus: ...You said it yoursel
  master, you've finally shown m
   Barlowe: Don't be stupid, Alb
   Albus: I will be taking [Domi
   Barlowe: Be rational! Without
   Dracula's vessel--
   Albus: I have my own mission.

   Albus raises his gun.

   Barlowe: Tch!

   Barlowe backdashes. Albus sho
   Lightning Union. Energy flash

   Albus: You are my master no l
   Albus: Farewell, Barlowe.
   Albus runs off the screen.

   Several weeks pass...
   Shanoa and Barlowe stand in E
   them.

   Barlowe: Your training regime
   Shanoa: As you say, Sir.
   Barlowe: We tap the power in 
 through Eclesia's secret art.
   Barlowe: And so we gain the s
   before you, if you would.

Press and hold up to begin
absorbing a Glyph. Up must be
held until the Glyph is
completely absorbed or it will
revert back to its space on the
screen. Absorbing a Glyph grants
Shanoa that power and also
refills 10 hearts. Absorb the
Glyph, Confodere, which is a
level 1 rapier Glyph. Also note
the jar with light glowing from
the top. Stand in front of this
jar (or its duplicate in Wygol
Village) and hold down to
recover Shanoa's supply of
hearts.

   Shanoa: A Rapier Glyph?
   Barlowe: Just so. And now you
   kind.
   Barlowe: That is your gift; i
   Shanoa: As you say, Sir.
   Barlowe: ......
   Barlowe: That I must teach yo
   Barlowe:  A pity that this ha
   Barlowe: But still, our time 
   Shanoa: As you say, Sir.
   Barlowe: That Glyph-- direct 

Press start to open the menu and
select the Glyphs screen. Select
Confodere as both Shanoa's Y and
X attacks. Note the colors that
code the words. The top Glyphs
will be in yellow; these are a
record of the Glyphs that have
most recently been used. The
Glyph currently being used is
highlighted in blue and, after
Shanoa obtains the Glyph Sleeve,
will have an A, B, or C notated
next to it.

   Barlowe: So armed, you can wi
   Barlowe: Imagine I am one of 

Shanoa can attack with both the
Y or X Glyphs at the same time,
thus allowing her to hit her
opponents with a barrage of
attacks (and also draining her
MP bar quickly). All of Shanoa's
Glyph attacks take MP, but she
recovers it rapidly by simply
not attacking for a few moments.
Attack Barlowe until he starts
talking again.

   Barlowe: Your memories ay hav
   Barlowe: Hear me-- your warri
   Barlowe: Now meld the Glyphs 
  yet catch foes by surprise.

Press Up + Y or Up + X to
perform a Glyph Union. If Shanoa
has two Glyphs of the same kind
equipped, this attack always
performs correctly. If she has
two different Glyphs equipped,
she may get an invalid combo
attack, which is just a burst of
white light in front of her.
This attack consumes only 5
hearts, and still does damage,
but it's not nearly as flashy as
two rapier Glyphs or two axe
Glyphs. Perform a Glyph Union
attack on Barlowe.

   Barlowe: So skillful! Now, yo
   combat.
   Barlowe: Steel yourself. Then
   Shanoa: As you say, Sir.

Walk to the left and press down
in front of the jar to recover
the 15 hearts Shanoa spent on
the Glyph Union, then head to
the right and exit through the
door into the next room.

   Barlowe: From netherworlds, I
   Barlowe: Use everything you'v
   Barlowe: And be our greatest 

A set of skeletons appear.
Attack them with a basic Y, X, Y
combination followed by L to
make Shanoa backdash out of the
way of the skeletons' thrown
bone attacks. A second pair
appears; repeat this process to
defeat them as well.

   Barlowe: So ends your basic t

Head right into the next room.

   Barlowe: Shanoa, I expected n
   Shanoa: Thank you, Sir.
   Barlowe: And now, your missio
   Barlowe: Recover the supreme 
   name.
   Shanoa: Albus...
   Barlowe: Does that name stir 
   Shanoa: No, Sir.
   Barlowe: Your feelings, then?
   Shanoa: I know nothing of him
   Barlowe: Know this: it's he w
   and cost mankind its only wis
   back.
   Shanoa: The ritual... That ma
   Barlowe: That man was Albus.
   Shanoa: ...This is all his do
   Barlowe: He coveted your powe
   to bear.
   Barlowe: Had I explained, per
   Shanoa: ......
   Barlowe: ...But no time now f
   Barlowe: With Dominus, we two
   Dracula himself! Retrieve it,
   Barlowe: There's nothing else
   Shanoa: It shall be done, Sir
   Barlowe: You truly are a bles
   [Dominus] cannot be used by o
   requires you. No flesh but yo
   Barlowe: You see now why I ch
   Shanoa: I do, Sir.
   Barlowe: But Albus has a keen
   Barlowe: With time, he may ye
   Barlowe: So find him first, b
   Shanoa: I shall, Sir.

   Shanoa runs past Barlowe to t

   Barlowe: Shanoa, bring him ba
     stubborn. Understood?
   Shanoa: Yes.
   Barlowe: Our hopes go with yo

Exit through the door to the
right, and continue straight
across to the opposite one. This
room is a save point, where
Shanoa's HP, MP, and status can
be recovered (and also,
obviously, where the game is
saved at). Go back into the
three-roomed training hall and,
in the middle of the left-most
room, there is a red chest
containing record 5. Head back
into the main vertical passage
and go all the way to the
bottom, then left to exit
Ecclesia.

--------------------------------
Monastery [Monas1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 001 Bat, 002 Zombie,
003 Skeleton, 004 Ghost, 005
Banshee,
  006 Bone Scimitar, 109 Anthrov
Items: 5 random chests, Sandals,
HP Max Up, Book of Spirits,
 Heart Max Up, Red Drops, MP Max
Wood Chests: Anti-venom, Cotton
Thread, Magical Ticket, Meat
Green Chests: Darjeering Tea,
Heart Repair, High Tonic, Lapis
Lazuli Glyphs: Magnes, Secare,
Culter Villagers: Cat

Enter the Monastery, and head
right. In the first long hall,
you'll fight 4

skeletons. Defeat them the same
way you did back in Ecclesia.
Torches of various kinds will
show up throughout the game.
Strike them to make them drop
hearts (or money if your hearts
are full).

Head right into another vertical
passage. There is a treasure
chest above Shanoa, as well as a
bat hanging from the ceiling
nearby. A simple well-timed
attack will kill it in one hit,
but beware: it will fly from its
perch towards Shanoa as you
approach. Collect the treasure
and then head right into the
next hall.

There, another skeleton awaits,
as well as a new enemy. Two
zombies shuffle forward, but
each are easily defeated with
two hits. Continue right to
reach the first of the
Monastery's warp rooms.

This room won't do anything for
now, but once you find a second
warp room in the same area, you
can jump back and forth between
them. The Monastery only has two
warp rooms, but some of the
larger areas have three or more.

Go back to the vertical passage,
and scale it upwards. Be careful
of the skeleton on the short
ledge. There isn't enough room
for the normal 3-hit and
backdash combo here, so you may
find you have to make multiple
runs at it to kill it and avoid
being hit. Also watch for a pair
of bats flying overheard. When
Shanoa reaches the top of the
passage, head right.

There, kill two skeletons and
the banshee that appears
floating at the top of the
screen. A second banshee appears
at the right end of the hall in
front of the red chest. After
all of the monsters have been
dealt with, open the chest to
obtain a pair of sandals. Equip
them for a slight defense
increase.

Go back to the vertical passage,
and continue straight left to
another hallway with 4 more
skeletons in it. Clear this
hallway out and continue left to
a vertical passage with a Glyph
floating in the air.

This Glyph is red, which means
it's a support type Glyph, and
is equipped onto the R button.
Magnes is its name, and its
power is to let Shanoa exert a
magnetic field that pulls her
towards the metal orbs
positioned throughout the game.
She can slingshot herself off
them onto far away platforms or
sometimes other orbs. After the
game finishes its Magnes
tutorial, haed back down to the
bottom of the passage and go
left to find a save point.

Head to the top of the passage
and collect the cotton hat from
the red chest, then go left. You
will immediately notice two
things in this room: a meowing
cat, and a red chest on a
platform that Shanoa cannot
(yet) reach. Ignore the red
chest for now, and head down to
the bottom of the screen. Kill
the ghosts, the flying horse
heads with the purple auras, as
they appear, and take out
another banshee near the bottom
right corner of the room.

The cat is under a low ledge,
and to rescue it, Shanoa has to
slide (down + B) directly on top
of it. This means you have to
start your slide a bit to the
left of the edge of the
platform. A good background
marker is directly left of the
wooden pole holding up the ledge
you came down from. Once Shanoa
is directly over top of the cat,
press down to collect it. Slide
forward again and press up in
front of the red chest to obtain
an HP Max Up.

From there, turn around and
slide back out, then run left
across the room to the lower-
left exit. Here, you'll meet the
Bone Scimitar. When killed, this
monster sometimes leaves behind
a Secare Glyph, which is a level
1 sword Glyph. It doesn't have
quite the range of Confodere,
but it is slightly stronger in
attack. Equipping two Secare's
allows Shanoa to perform the
Sword Union, while equipping one
Secare and one Confodere
performs the Invalid Union.

Farther to the left in this
room, you'll see a wall with
blocks behind it. If you use a
Union Glyph, you can uncover a
Glyph called Cubus behind the
blocks, but they fall too
quickly for Shanoa to fully
absorb it. You'll have to come
back later if you want this
(largely useless) Glyph once
Shanoa has obtained more
powerful, wider-ranged attacks.

Go back to through the large
room with all the Ghosts and
exit into the passage where you
found Magnes. Leave through the
right-hand door near the top of
the passage to come into a
hallway with an endless supply
of zombies that crop up from the
ground. Near the middle of the
hall, there is a statue.

Break it to reveal the Culter
Glyph, a level 1 knife Glyph.
This is a weak, but quick,
attack that throws knives across
the screen. Equipping two
Culters allows Shanoa to perform
the Knife Union, which throws a
long stream of knives. Exit this
hall in the right to come into
another ghost-filled room.

A golden chest sits on a ledge
that is accessible form the
right hand side. Open it to
obtain the Book of Spirits, a
relic which shows the name of
monsters in the lower right
corner of the screen as Shanoa
hits them. In the upper right
corner is a treasure chest.
Continue to the upper left
corner of the room, and jump up
and attack the wall. After
several hits, it breaks away,
revealing a hidden hall running
to the left. At the end of this
hall, which is filled with
zombies and ghosts in endless
supply, is a red chest with a
Heart Max Up.

Go back to the room you just
came out of and exit through the
lower right corner. The next
hallway is home to a bone
scimitar and two banshees. Kill
them and keep going. You'll
reach a vertical passage. At the
top of the screen is a ledge
with a treasure chest on it. The
edge of that ledge on the right
side is breakable, and an item
called Red Drops falls to the
ground after you hit it a few
times. This increases your flame
attribute points, which
admittedly isn't much use right
now.

Collect the treasure, and head
up the passage, killing bats and
skeletons as you go. At the top,
go to the right to get another
treasure chest, defeating the
bone scimitar and banshee in the
room. Then go back to the
vertical passage and go left.

This is the longest hallway yet,
filled with zombies, a few
skeletons (which you should be
able to kill quickly enough to
run forward under the bones and
not have to backdash by now),
and a few bone scimitars.
Another treasure chest is here.
Plow your way through them to
the next passage.

Use Magnes to throw yourself up
to the treasure chest containing
an MP Max Up by aiming at the
ceiling and sliding across it
rather than aiming right for the
treasure and bouncing off the
ledge it's sitting on. Head up
to the top and enter the left
door to access the second warp
point of the Monastery, then go
back down to the left and use
the save point. The blue door
with the red ball in the center
is a boss gate, and it's always
a good idea to save before
walking through one. On the
other side is the first boss of
the game.

--------------------------------
Anthroverta
--------------------------------
HP: 700         Exp: 300

When you first enter the room,
the boss will be hanging from
the ceiling in a green sack. It
breaks the sack and drops to the
ground, revealing a red monster
that seems to be some sort of
mutated crab. This boss has only
three attacks, all of which are
easy to avoid if your reflexes
are sharp enough.

Start by making sure you've got
two Secares equipped (likely
anyway; they have the highest
attack). Note the two magnetic
orbs near the top of the room.
When the boss rolls itself into
a ball, jump straight up and
hold R to activate Magnes.
Shanoa will float in the air
above the boss as it rolls back
and forth across the room.

Mash Y and X alternatively to
slash with Secare repeatedly
after is unrolls itself, but
watch for its claw. The claw is
normally tucked against the
boss's body, but it will unfurl
it and slash forward at Shanoa.
Simply press L to backdash once
and Shanoa will throw herself
out of the range of the attack.
You may then resume hacking away
at the boss.

The boss's third attack is a web
that the face on the boss spits
out. This attack is able to be
dodged, but it's easier to
simply stand underneath it and
slash. The upward arc of Secare
will hit the web, causing it to
fall away and do no damage.

The biggest problem you'll face
fighting this boss is running
out of MP as you repeatedly hack
into it. If you run out of MP,
back off for a few seconds to
let it recharge. Sword Unions
are an effective attack as well,
dealing easily six times as much
damage as a normal hit. If you
manage to drop the boss without
getting hit, you'll be rewarded
with an Arthro Medal. Also,
after every boss fight, a red
orb (that looks suspiciously
like an eyeball) will drop down
from the ceiling. This orb fully
refills your HP and MP.

Attacks: Roll- The boss rolls
itself into a ball and slams
back and forth between the
 walls several times. Float abov
Claw- The boss unfurls a claw
from its side and slashes
forward. Press L to backdash
once out of its range. Web- The
boss spits a green web out of
its mouth. It's easier to slash
with
 Secare (using its upward arc to
--------------------------------

Head into the next room to find
Albus standing there.

   Albus: Shanoa! Still slaving 
   Shanoa: You... I've seen you 
   Albus: well, yes...
   Shanoa: By order of my master
  return you home.
   Albus: Home, you say? I have 
   Shanoa: It was not a request.

   Shanoa attacks Albus, who tel
   of the screen.

   Albus: Intriguing... I recall
   Albus: And you've forgotten y
   Shanoa: I have forgotten, tha
   Albus: Is that so? Well, I'm 
  for me.
   Shanoa: You must. By order of
   Albus: Never say that name ag
   Shanoa: Concentrate, Shanoa..

   Albus fires a max shot, which

   Albus: Well, I'd best be off.

   Albus leaves through the left
   sparkling on the ground. It i

   Shanoa: Hmm... He marked a vi

Go left back to the warp point
and use it to jump to the one
near the beginning of the
Monastery. Backtrack through the
halls and exit the area.

--------------------------------
Wygol Village [Wygol1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: None Items: 3 random
chests Wood Chests: Coffee,
Meat, Milk (50%) Green Chests:
These chests never appear as
green chests. Glyphs: Torpor
Villagers: Nikolai

As Shanoa enters the village,
the camera pans to the right to
show a man trapped in yellow
crystal with a Glyph floating
above it.

   Shanoa: A Glyph... This is Al

Press up to absorb the Glyph,
Torpor. Torpor tosses a yellow
crystal to the ground, which
shoots up and hits anything on
top of it. It does little
damage, especially considering
the MP cost, and is almost
completely useless.

   Nikolai: At last!
   Shanoa: Who did this to you?
   Nikolai: You must help the ot
   Shanoa: By whom?
   Nikolai: That man! He spirite
   Nikolai: ...But the Lord must
   others!
   Shanoa: Can you tell me where
   Nikolai: If... If I'm not mis
   Island].
   Shanoa: I see...
   Nikolai: Long ago, criminals 
   Nikolai: Some say their souls
   cursed.
   Shanoa: Where is it?
   Nikolai: You can get there th
   them!
   Shanoa: Did Albus really take
   Shanoa: ...and for what purpo

The village is all but abandoned
until Shanoa rescues more
villagers, but there are three
wooden chests to open. One is
all the way to the left outside
of the houses, one to the right,
and one in the right-most house
on the middle floor. There is
also a heart-restoring jar and a
save point. When you're done
exploring, exit the village by
pressing up while standing in
the middle of the vine-covered
arch.

--------------------------------
Ruvas Forest [Ruvas1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 001 Bat, 002 Zombie,
003 Skeleton, 006 Bone Scimitar,
008 Nominon,
  009 Axe Knight, 010 Une, 012 N
Items: 2 random chests Wood
Chests: Anti-venom, Cotton
Thread, Magical Ticket, Meat
Green Chests: Darjeering Tea,
Heart Repair, High Tonic, Lapis
Lazuli Glyphs: Macir, Fidelis
Caries, Ascia Villagers: None

The Ruvas Forest is a straight
run from left to right with
salvo of monsters standing
between Shanoa and exit. The
first monster is a flying beast
known as a nominon. It's best to
kill these as you encounter them
rather than let them hound
Shanoa across the forest. Next
is two bone scimitars, followed
by another nominon. As you run
to the right, you'll see another
bone scimitar. On the ground in
front of it is an une, a plant
monster that's extremely easy to
miss.

After that, there is a statue
containing Macir, a level 1
hammer Glyph. For now, it's best
to stick with Secare, as the
flying nominon's are weak to
slashing damage, but resist the
striking damage of hammer
Glyphs. Defeat another une and
then run to the right to
discover a necromancer.

Wait until he begins casting his
spell, then hold up to absorb
the Glyph he creates, Fidelis
Caries. This is the first
summoning Glyph, and it creates
zombies to shuffle across the
ground and deal damage to
enemies. Summoned monsters have
levels, and they level up when
Shanoa absorbs enough copies of
their Glyph. Leveling this
particular summon up simply
causes two ineffectual zombies
to shuffle across the ground
instead of one, however. If
you're low on hearts, you can
repeatedly absorb this Glyph to
refill them.

The next section starts with a
bat, followed by several
zombies, some skeletons, a few
nominons, and more bats, which
will continue to appear in a
never-ending supply. There is a
treasure chest, and after that
is an axe knight, which has the
Ascia Glyph, a level 1 axe
Glyph, and another treasure
chest.

This is an extremely useful
weapon; it has mid-range
capabilities, high attack power,
and can hit enemies above and
below Shanoa. The downside is
the high MP cost of each attack
compared to other Glyphs like
Confodere or Secare. Axe knights
attack by throwing axes either
overhand (duck under them) or
underhand (jump over them). The
trick is that the axes return to
them after reaching a certain
range, so you must watch for
that portion of the attack as
well. You can also strike the
axes while they're in the air to
make them fall to the ground.

The third section contains
another necromancer, a single
axe knight, and more of the same
enemies that filled the rest of
this area. Defeat them and
continue all the way to the
right and out the other side of
the Ruvas Forest.

--------------------------------
Kalidus Channel [Kalid1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 007 Sea Stinger, 008
Nominon, 011 Merman, 017 Needles
Items: Magical Ticket, Twinbee
Wood Chests: None Green Chests:
None Glyphs: None Villagers:
Jacob

For now, this area is another
straight run. Shanoa can jump
across the pieces of flotsam and
floating boxes to reach the
other side, or swim through the
water. The advantage to jumping
is that you can ignore the
needle enemies, which do nothing
but float in place and wait for
you to run into them.

Ascia is a good weapon to use
here, as it allows you to strike
enemies below you. The mermen
will jump out of the water, but
are easily dispatched with two
hits. The second water room also
contains a fish enemy known as a
sea stinger. This fish swims
towards where Shanoa is, then
angles itself upward and leaps
out of the water and attempts to
pierce you with its rapier-like
nose.

There is an endless stream of
these fish swimming through the
water, so it's impossible to
kill them all and it's best to
just ignore them and keep
moving.

In a small cave, you'll find a
second villager encased in
Torpor, and a magical ticket
sitting on the ground next to
him. This handy item allows
Shanoa to warp directly back to
Wygol Village from almost any
point in the game.

   Jacob: Whew! Hey, you saved m
   Jacob: Im Jacob. Got a genera
   Jacob: And on that note, I sh
   Jacob: But listen, I might ha
   Jacob: Come by the shop, and 

There is a save room to the
right of the room you found
Jacob in, another hallway.
You'll then come into another
room full of water, mermen, and
sea stingers. Before you set off
though, throw two axes towards
the lower right corner of the
stone above Shanoa's head. Then,
jump forward and throw the third
axe to break the stone and
collect the Twinbee item that
falls out. Don't worry if you
miss it and it falls into the
water. Simply leave the room and
come back to try again. After
that, proceed through the room
and two more just like it before
Shanoa exits the right end of
the Channel.

--------------------------------
Minera Prison Island [Miner1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 009 Axe Knight, 013
Bone Archer, 014 Spear Guard,
015 Invisible Man,
  018 Demon, 023 The Creature, 0
080 Tin Man, 108 Giant Skeleton
Items: 7 random chests, Skeleton
Medal, 500 gold bag (2),
Cabriolet, MP Max Up,
 Priestess Ring, Anti-toxin, HP 
  Strength Ring, Glyph Sleeve
Wood Chests: Chamomile, Cotton
Thread, Magical Ticket, Sage
Green Chests: Iron Ore, Lapis
Lazuli, Military Wear, Protect
Ring Glyphs: Hasta, Arcus,
Dominus Hatred, Falcis, Vol
Fugur Villagers: Abram, Cat

Before entering this area, head
back to Wygol Village and save.
You can also pick up some
slightly better armor for Shanoa
at the newly reopened general
store. Afterwards, go to the
Minera Prison Island. The first
warp room is just to the right
of the entrance, and the next
boss fight is just after that.
Shanoa runs into the room, where
she is immediately spotted by a
search light. A second search
light shines onto a giant
skeleton, which stands up and
attacks.

--------------------------------
Giant Skeleton
--------------------------------
HP: 800         Exp: 350

This boss has several attacks.
The first is where it cocks its
arm back, and then punches
downward at Shanoa. The second
is similiar, but instead of a
punch, the skeleton kicks out
with its leg while throwing its
torso backwards as a counter
weight. The boss then proceeds
to hang like this for several
seconds. If you get behind it,
the skeleton bends over
backwards and swings wildly with
its arms while chasing you
across the screen.

This fight is remarkably easy to
beat, and if you do it right,
the boss will never get the
chance to exhibit any of those
attacks. Start by equipping
Macir to both Shanoa's Y and X
attack. As soon as the fight
starts, use Magnes from the
magnetic orb directly above you.
The boss will walk towards you,
but by raising Shanoa to the top
of the screen, it steps
underneath you instead of
running into you. As soon as the
skeleton is underneath you, it
immediately begins to backpedal.

Continue to hang from the
magnetic orb, burn all of your
hearts on repeated Hammer Unions
at this point. The boss is weak
to striking damage, so it's
better to use Hammer Unions as
opposed to Sword or Axe Unions.
However, Macir's range is too
short for the rest of this
fight, so switch to two Ascias
instead.

Still hanging from the magnetic
orb, fire off a salvo of axes as
the boss approaches Shanoa. When
it gets closer, raise Shanoa to
the top of the screen so that it
walks underneath her. After it
backpedals, drop back to the
original resting posision and
fire off another round of axes.
Repeat this several more times,
then watch as the skeleton folds
in on itself and dies. Collect a
skeleton medal from the chest as
well as your red orb, then exit
to the left again and return to
Wygol Village. Refill your
hearts (and save if you'd like),
and come back to finish the rest
of this area.

Attacks: Punch- A simple punch
attack that's easy to avoid by
backdashing away. Kick- Another
easily avoidable attack. Simply
backdash out of its range.
Reverse Flurry- A barrage of
raking attacks from the boss's
arms as it bends
    backwards and chases Shanoa 
    the magnetic orbs with Magne
    avoid it.
--------------------------------

Continue to the right into the
next hallway. Several spear
guards, an axe knight, and a few
bone archers all crop up here
and in the next hall as well.
What makes these fights hard is
that you need to avoid the spot
lights. If one of them gets a
decent glimpse of Shanoa, an
Evil Force monster will show up.
These grotesque floating heads
are quite formidable. They hit
harder than the skeleton boss
and have 244 HP as well. On the
up side, they're also worth 113
exp if you can drop them. Evil
Forces show up later on in the
game as regular monsters in the
Mystery Manor.

After exiting to the right side
of the hallways, you'll come
into a vertical passage. Collect
the treasure chest opposite of
Shanoa, and use the save point
through the door, then head down
to the bottom of the passage. A
bag of money contains 500 gold,
and the door to the right
contains a long hall with
several spear guards.

This is a good place to pick up
Hasta, a level 1 lance Glyph,
since the spear guards are
plentiful in this room. Also,
several skull archers are near
the middle and far end. Shanoa
can absorb the Arcus Glyph,
which is a level 1 bow Glyph.
Start by jumping up to the top
platform from the entrance, and
collect the red chest, which
contains a Cabriolet. Shanoa can
equip this as head equipment.

There is a treasure chest along
the top path, and at the end,
another red chest contains an MP
Max Up. Head back to the
vertical passage and go all the
way to the top, taking out the
skull archer on the upper-left
most ledge. The next hallway is
another split level, and again,
you should take the top route to
pick up a treasure chest halfway
down.

The hallway leads to another
vertical passage, and halfway
down this one, you can break out
the left wall to reveal a hidden
room. This room contains a red
chest, and inside the chest is a
Priestess ring. This accessory
provides a decent defense boost,
but it comes at the cost of a
point off your attack.

Back in the passage, drop the
rest of the way to the bottom
and slay the axe knight there.
Collect the treasure chest and
go right. Go up in the next
passage, which has an infinite
number of winged guards flying
across it, and collect the anti-
venom from the red chest, then
drop back down. Once Shanoa
obtains the double jump ability,
you'll be able to scale the rest
of this passage.

Go left into a dungeon-like
setting and defeat the spear
guard, then go farther left to
encounter an invisible man. Kill
these monsters quickly; once
they shrug off their coat, they
become harder to keep track of,
and they like to charge Shanoa
and hit her hard. After you
defeat the invisible man,
collect the HP Max Up out of the
red chest and then go down. A
quick trip through the left door
reveals a warp point, then go
right through the new hallway.

Watch out for the gullotine
blades hanging from the ceiling.
They drop down as Shanoa gets
close to them. Simply wait for
them to raise high enough up to
walk under them or, if you're
impatient, jump over them. Also,
keep an eye on the skull archers
on the other side to avoid their
attacks.

Go through the right exit to
come into a lab setting, where
Shanoa encounters Albus again.

   Shanoa: Albus!
   Albus: Impressive, Shanoa.
   Albus: It's fortunate I alrea

   Albus raises his hand a a Gly

   Albus: It's the best I can do
   Albus: This [Dominus] is what

Absorb the Glyph, Dominus
Hatred.

   Shanoa: It really is [Dominus
   Albus: Figured... With that m
  source.
   Shanoa: The source of [Dominu
   Albus: What it means, dear, i
   Shanoa: This is your last cha
   Albus: We've been over this..
  boy.
   Albus: I have a role to fulfi

   Albus teleports away.

   Shanoa: How was he able to cr
  only I could--
   Shanoa: Master Barlowe should

Don't bother trying to use
Dominus Hatred. Every time
Shanoa uses it, she loses HP.
Exit to the right. Note that if
you reenter this room any other
time, a monster known as the
creature will be standing here
instead. There is another one
coming up soon though, so
there's no need to fight this
one if you're trying to add
every monster to your index
(though it is worth a whopping
90 exp if you kill it).

The next hall has no enemies,
but instead a set of iron
maidens spaced apart with a
pendulum blade swinging back and
forth. Jump over the iron
maidens and pendulum, timing it
so that Shanoa jumps over the
first iron maiden as the
pendulum swings away, giving you
plenty of time to jump again
when it comes back. Leap the
second iron maiden, and collect
the bag of 500 gold, then go
right.

Another villager is trapped in
Torpor. Absorb the Glyph to free
Abram, the healer.

   Abram: Ha-ha! Rescued at last
   Shanoa: I have no interest in
   Abram: You promise? Well, um,
   Abram: I guess. That's what y
   Abram: I'm Abram. I'm the tow
   Abram: Please come visit my e

Go back to the hallway and head
up the platforms. Defeat the
invisible man, then open the
treasure chest. Head a bit
farther left, where Shanoa
encounters another creature. Its
three attacks are a simple kick,
a flame thrower it activates by
kneeling forward and unhinging
its hand to reveal a nozzle, and
a lightning attack it activates
by raising its hands in the air
and showering electricity down
towards the ground.

Kill the creature, then go left
to another vertical passage.
Skull archers abound here, but
you can easily kill them with
Ascia. Another treasure chest is
at the top of the passage, and
the exit leads to the right.
Cross the next room, which is
very small, and come to another
vertical passage. Where you see
a magnetic orb, attack the stone
just up and to the right of it.
Breaking the stone causes an
item called Konami Man to fall
out. Pick it up, then go right
to find another save point.

Use Magnes to sling Shanoa up to
the next set of ledges. The red
chest contains a Heart Max Up.
The hallway to the right is a
split platform one. A treasure
chest is on the bottom level,
and another village cat is on
the top. The room is filled with
spear guards and a single demon.
The demon flies around and, if
it gets above Shanoa, may
attempt to dive down and slash
at her with its feet.

The right end of the hallway
leads into a vertical passage.
Half way down on the left side,
go through the exit to the
second warp room. At the bottom
of the passage is a statue
containing Falcis, the level 1
sickle Glyph, and a skull
archer. The exit at the bottom
goes left into the first of
several unusual rooms spaced
throughout the game. This room
has wires with balls of
electricity

running across them. You have to
jump over the balls, timing the
jumps so that

you don't hit the balls in the
wires above Shanoa's head.

At the end of the hall, there is
wire free platform for Shanoa to
stand on while you absorb the
Glyph, Vol Fulgur. This is
actually the level 2 Lightning
Glyph, which you receive before
the level 1 Glyph. It's also not
nearly as useful as its first
level counterpart. This Glyph
shoots an arc of lightning out
that causes minimal damage for
an extremely high MP cost. Its
most promising feature is that,
finally having an elemental
Glyph, Shanoa can now combine it
with any weapon Glyph except
Culter to execute a Union Glyph
in the shape of a lightning
lance that she stabs forward..

After Shanoa absorbs Vol Fulgur,
the electricity stops running.
Head back to the vertical
passage, and this time exit the
middle right side. You'll find
yourself in another spot light
room, only this time, two demons
inhabit it instead of spear
guards. Make sure not to get
caught in the spotlight, or
you'll find yourself faced with
a tin man, a monster that
doesn't become a normal enemy
until you reach Dracula's
Castle, the last area of the
game!

If you decide you want to try
fighting this formidable
monster, first defeat the two
demons (stand still and they'll
come to you). Next, dodge all
the spot lights and exit through
the right. Open the golden chest
to obtain the Glyph Sleeve, a
relic which lets Shanoa have
three sets of Glyphs equipped at
once and rotate through them by
holding down A and then pressing
L or R. Go right to exit the
area and save again at Wygol
Village.

Also note that Abram is the
first of many villagers who will
send Shanoa on errands so they
can perform their trades. In
Abram's case, he wants a piece
of sage (which you should have
several of, by now), so that he
can make potions, which Jacob
will then stock in his general
store. His next task is to
obtain chamomile (no problem)
and Rue (which is considerably
more difficult to find). Abram
uses these two items to make
anti-venoms.

Now return to Minera Prison
Island, and enter from the right
side. Defeat the two demons
again before you enter the
spotlight, then equip Dominus
Hatred. Enter the spot light,
and immediately use it. You
takes damage every time she uses
it, but it deals out 7 to 8
times more damage than anything
else you've got at this point in
the game. Don't attempt to leap
over the tin man as it charges.
Instead, jump straight up.

You can only dodge the tin man's
axe at the very apex of her
jump, and getting hit more than
once isn't an option unless you
plan on burning through healing
items. The tin man has 256 HP,
so 5 or 6 shots of Dominus
Hatred should drop it (and
hopefully not you as well).
Beating it nets you 180 exp, and
the additional reward of a blue
chest that appears in the middle
of the hallway. Inside this
chest is a strength ring, which
ups your str by 5 and lowers
your int by 2. Exit the area and
save again.

--------------------------------
The Lighthouse [Light1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 110 Brachyura Items:
Brachyura Medal, Serpent Scale
Wood Chests: None Green Chests:
None Glyphs: Luminatio
Villagers: Eugen

Enter the Lighthouse and run to
the right. Use Magnes to
catapult Shanoa over the spikes,
then keep going through the next
room and enter the boss chamber.
You will run into a large
vertical passage with a magnetic
orb that allows you to begin
scaling it via a series of
platforms. Part of the way up, a
giant crab appears below you and
begins climbing up after you. It
takes up the entire bottom of
the screen, so there's no
getting back down past it.

--------------------------------
Brachyura
--------------------------------
HP: 1800        Exp: 1000

This is a 4 part fight. First of
all, it should be noted that,
although the boss is weak to
striking and lightning damage,
Macir's limited range (it has
absolutely no downward arc, even
when used as a Hammer Union)
makes it rather inefficient for
striking the crab. You can use
it, but only rarey. Vol Fulgur's
damage output is also minimal.
Thus, it falls on Ascia once
again to win the day.

Begin by climbing up to the top
of the screen. There will be two
small platforms on the left and
right side, and a longer one
scaling the entire length of the
Lighthouse above it. Stand in
the upper left corner and open
up with a barrage of axes as
soon as the boss comes into
view. At this point it has only
two attacks: a side swipe with
its larger claw hand, and a
spray of bubbles from its mouth.

The boss always begins by
raising its larger claw hand
towards the center of the
screen, then cocking it back
down towards it body, then
slamming it into Shanoa.
Position her so that she's on
the bottom left platform,
kneeling down, and the claw with
slam into the wall over her
head. Whenever the boss's claw
is raised is also a good time to
fire off more axes, as they'll
hit both the claw and the body,
dealing double damage. While the
boss's arm is cocked back is a
good time to refill your MP from
the last round of axes.

After the boss uses this attack,
it then alternates with its
spray of bubbles. Stand on the
upper left side, and, as soon as
the spray begins, run to the
right. You can clear it out with
regular attacks, but it's risky
to stand there, as you might get
hit by a stray bubble. Either
way, when the spray is finished,
make sure Shanoa is standing in
the upper left corner again.

The boss will repeat this
pattern indefinitely until you
deal enough damage to him, at
which point it turns red and
begins using a lunching claw
attack instead of the swiping
one. This is easy enough to
dodge, as well. When it first
turns red, position Shanoa on
the lower left platform, again
kneeling down, and watch the
boss smash its claw into the
ceiling twice. After the second
attack, jump up to the middle of
the top platform, and backdash
out of the way of the third
attack.

If you fail to do this, when the
boss's claw comes back down from
the third attack, it will detour
to the left side of the screen
to hit Shanoa. If you're on the
top ledge, however, it swings
its claw over to the right wall
when it retracts it instead.

After the third hit, the boss
unleashes another bubble spray,
which you can dodge the same way
as before. Go back to the lower
left platform and kneel down
again to stay out of the way of
the next two lunges. The ceiling
breaks apart after the second
one, but make sure you wait for
the boss to retract his claw
before jumping up the new set of
platforms.

For the second stage of the
fight, you'll find a magnetic
orb stationed in the middle by
the ceiling and two small
platforms on either wall. Repeat
the strategy for the first
stage, except that when you
dodge the boss's bubble spray,
you'll hold R and push all the
way to the right, then sling
Shanoa back to safety on the
left.

This time, when the boss turns
red, it only has to hit the
ceiling twice before it breaks,
but again, wait for the claw to
retract before you jump up the
platforms. There are no middle
platforms on this trip up,
however, so once you get to the
first magnetic orb, use it to
shoot Shanoa straight up and
catch the next one. Repeat this
until you get to the top of the
passage again.

When the boss catches up to you,
the third stage of the fight
begins. The only real difference
between this stage and the
previous one was that the boss
has a new attack. It grabs its
right claw with its left one,
swings them both to the left
(hitting Shanoa if she's on the
lower left platform), then
releases its right claw to arc
across the screen and slam into
the right wall. Avoid this
attack easily by simply staying
on the upper left platform.

Its other two attacks you should
be well familiar with by now,
and the only note to mention for
the third stage is to watch for
its smaller left claw, which is
at some times poking up onto the
lower left platform. After the
boss turns red, he will again
break out the ceiling, this time
with 3 hits. Shanoa can stand on
the upper left platform to watch
all of them.

After the claw retracts, jump up
the platforms to the next
magnetic orb. Sling Shanoa to
the top of the Lighthouse, where
there are two alcoves in the
wall. Jump into one of those,
then through the gap between the
stone and the elevator. Run into
the middle of it, and press
down. Shanoa activates the
elevator, which drops downward
onto the boss and smashes it
into the stone at the bottom of
the Lighthouse, making for a
very satisfying ending to this
tedious boss.

If you don't manage to get to
the top of the Lighthouse before
the boss catches up to you, its
only attack at this point is to
repeatedly spray bubbles over
and over again. Destroy them or
wait for them to disappear, then
run to the center of the
elevator. If you managed to
tackle this boss without taking
damage, the Brachyura Medal will
be in a treasure chest next to
the door.

Attacks: Claw Swipe- The boss
prefaces this attack by moving
its large claw into the
   middle of the room, then brin
   the left wall. Avoid it by kn
Bubble Spray- The boss always
does this move after its claw
swipe, and will
   continue to alternate back an
   to make it turn red. Avoid it
   of the screen, then moving to
Claw Smack- The boss grabs its
large pincer with its small one,
pulls it to the
   left, and lets go, sending th
   wall.
Claw Lunge- You'll only see this
attack when the boss turns red.
Kneel on the
   lower left side of the screen
   the center of the top platfor
   other two times the boss does
   staying to the left side of t
   platforms.
--------------------------------

Ride the elevator back to the
top of the Lighthouse, and go
left. Use Magnes to reach the
top of the passage, then go
right to the center of the
Lighthouse, where Shanoa can
absorb the Glyph Luminatio. This
attack is much more useful than
Vol Fulgur, though it can be
tricky to aim. When it's used,
Shanoa creates two balls of
light that swirl out from her in
wide arcs several times before
disappearing off the screen.

Exit to the right, and drop down
back to the elevator. Ride it
down to the remains of the
squished crab again, and go
right this time. At the bottom
of the next passage, you'll find
the villager Eugen encased in
Torpor. Absorb the Glyph to set
him free.

   Eugen: ...Thank you.
   Shanoa: Did the man who bound
   Eugen: I don't remember heari
  purpose, I can tell you that. 

  say.
   Shanoa: I see.
   Eugen: I'm going back to the 
  you...
   Shanoa: What about me?
   Eugen: How the hell'd you get
   Eugen: Come see me in the vil
   Shanoa: I'd appreciate it.

Go left into the next room.

   Shanoa: He must have passed t

Open the golden chest, which
contains the Serpent Scale. This
relic allows Shanoa to move
freely underwater. Exit to the
left and prepare yourself to
return to the Kalidus Channel.

--------------------------------
Kalidus Channel [Kalid2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 016 Gelso, 019
Fishhead, 020 Dark Octopus, 021
Killer Fish,

  022 Forneus, 025 Skull Spider,
Items: 6 random chests, Potion,
Heart Max Up, Anti-toxin,
Sapphire, MP Max Up,
 Super Potion, Heart Max Up, HP 
 Heart Max Up, 1000 gold bag (3)
 Magician Ring, Iron Ore
Wood Chests: Cotton Thread
(50%), Iron Ore, Lapis Lazuli
Green Chests: Gold Ring, Resist
Ring, Rubber Suit, Silk Thread
Glyphs: Grando, Fortis Fio,
Scutum, Fidelis Aranea
Villagers: Monica

Enter from the lower right
entrance and proceed left. Jump
into the water; note that with
the Serpent Scale, Shanoa now
sinks to the bottom rather than
swimming across the top. Defeat
the killer fish and go left. The
next room is filled mostly with
needles and mermen, but a killer
fish lurks in the top left
corner, and there is a red chest
containing a potion in the lower
left corner. Exit via the upper
left corner.

Run through the next room to
come to a vertical passage. A
dark octopus is trapped on the
left side of the screen; a
couple axe throws will take care
of it while keeping Shanoa out
of danger. There are two killer
fish and a needle on the way to
the top, which you can reach by
continually jumping. Head right
into the next room.

Immediately in front of you is a
killer fish. Go down after
killing it, but watch out for a
pair of needles floating in
front of a red chest. Dispatch
the needles, then open the chest
to claim a Heart Max Up. Go back
up over the rock and down the
other side to where there are
two dark octopi. Behind them is
a treasure chest.

Over the next outcropping are
mermen and a red chest
containing an anti-venom. Go
right to access a warp room,
then return to the room you just
came out of. Above you is a trio
of fishheads stacked on top of
each other. These monsters will
turn to face you and spit out
sharp barbs. To defeat them,
simply walk up to the stack and
fire off a burst of Luminatio
attacks.

Go right after defeating the
fishheads. Here, a needle floats
in front of a stack of 7 fish
heads guarding a sapphire on the
ground. Luminatio will make
short work of these as well. A
new enemy, a gelso, will swim
down from above. There are only
two in this room, but in other
parts of the Channel, they are
much like the zombies and bats
found in other areas in that no
matter how many you kill, more
will always appear. Cut them
down as they get in your way,
slashing weapons work
particularly well, and continue
up.

Three more fishheads are stacked
up on a ledge, and directly left
of them is an exit. Go into this
hallway and defeat the mermen
and fishheads. When you reach
the end, a sea demon will
appear. Dodge around it for a
bit, and wait for it to begin
forming a Glyph. Absorb this
Glyph, Grando by name. Grando is
a level 1 ice Glyph. This attack
shoots an ice-cycle straight
ahead, but isn't particularly
useful here, since most of the
enemies are resistant to ice
damage. Open the red chest for
an HP Max Up and return to the
vertical passage.

Go all the way up the passage
and then head left. Defeat a
trio of dark octopi in this
hallway and continue left. Go to
the top of passage you come
into, and head right. This room
has an infinite number of gelsos
to get in your way, but they are
easily taken care of with a
short range weapon like Secare.
Make sure you don't strike the
powder keg (a wooden barrel with
the bomb on it hanging from a
balloon like object).

Your goal here is to jump into
the keg and push it all the way
to the right. Once it rests
against all the piled rubble,
then strike it to make it
explode and clear out the rocks.
Once all the rocks have been
cleared away, break open the
right wall to reveal a room with
3 red chests. These chests
contain an MP Max Up, a super
potion, and a Heart Max Up. Go
back into the other room and
head up.

You're now on the floor of the
rooms you crossed on your first
trip through the Kalidus
Channel. Go all the way to the
right into the next room, and
continue to the lower right
corner of that room as well.
Open the red chest hidden there
to receive an HP Max Up. Now
head back the other way and go
left through the room you came
up in and into the next one. A
red chest in the middle of the
floor has an MP Max Up, and if
you were unable to catch the
Twinbee item on your first trip
through, you can now sink down
to the bottom and pick it up
after releasing it from the
stone.

You can cross through here and
explore the other side of the
Channel, but there is another
entrance like the rock-covered
one you just blew up later on.
For now, go back down into the
underwater caves and head left
to the vertical passage with the
3 fishheads facing you. Go down
to the bottom and defeat two
dark octopi for a treasure
chest, then go left.

The next room is filled with
gelsos and a giant jellyfish
monster called forneus. There is
a treasure chest halfway through
the hall to pick up, and it
leads to a save room on the left
side. Slide under the rock and
jump out of the water to reach
the save statue, then continue
out the left side of the room.
Go to the top of this passage
and head left. Defeat the group
of mermen and open the treasure
chest here, then go back to the
passage.

Go through either of the two
left exits remaining; they both
lead into the same room. Defeat
the stack of 7 fishheads to
continue, then the pair of dark
ocotopi in the nook to gain
access to a statue. Break it to
reveal Fortis Fio, a support
Glyph activated by pushing R
(after equipping it, of course).
It gives a temporary CON boost,
which ups your defense. This
boost lasts until you leave the
area or save your game.

Go up over the rocks and then
back down the other side to
reach the exit. This new passage
has another powder keg on a
balloon, but this time the
object is to manipulate it
across stone ledges cropping out
from the sides of the screen
while still dealing with those
pesky gelsos. Start by making
sure Secare or an other short
range weapon is equipped so you
don't accidentally break the
keg.

It's not necessary to destroy
the needle enemies; the keg will
go right through them. But it
does make your job easier.
Destroy them first, then push
the keg left until it rises up
to the next ledge. From here,
push it to the right by jumping
into it so that it will rise to
the rubble. Strike the keg and
watch the stones blow to pieces.
Go left to reveal another warp
point, then head up through the
newly opened exit to reach the
left set of rooms you navigated
when you first came through the
channel.

Claim the chamomile form the red
chest just offscreen to the
left, and continue left into the
next room to the lower left
corner of the screen. Beat the
killer fish and take the Heart
Max Up from the red chest. Go
right through the room you came
up from and into the next room
and claim the treasure chest on
the floor. Head back left and
down.

Go down through the passage
again to the right exit near the
bottom and make your way back
through the next room to the
passage next to the save point.
Take the bottom exit out of the
passage and continue to the
bottom of the next one. Break
the statue there to reveal a
Scutum Glyph. This causes a
shield to appear over Shanoa's
head, which deflects some
attacks, but does not stop
monsters like gelsos from
swimming through it to hit you.

Go through the left exit to
reach another large room. Defeat
two forneus monsters and another
stack of fishheads to gain
access to a treasure chest. Go
left again to reach the lower
left corner of the room. Run
through the next room into
another large room. Drop down to
the bottom and go through the
right exit for now. Beat three
dark octopi in the next hall.
The room to the right has three
killer fish swimming around, and
a sunken ship. Enter the ship
and claim the two bags worth
1000 gold each. There is a mouse
running around that Shanoa can't
catch yet until a villager asks
you to retrieve it, so ignore it
for now.

The next level has a red chest
with a MP Max Up and another
1000 gold bag. Another red chest
after that has an emerald. A
skull spider scurries around on
the stone. These enemies have
high defense against physical
attacks, but are weak to
striking damage from Macir. If
they touch Shanoa, she'll be
afflicted with poison, which
does damage over time for a
while, and weakens your attack
strength.

Skull spiders drop a Glyph
called Fidelis Aranea. This is
another summon Glyph, but this
one summons a skull spider to
scurry around and attack things.
This Glyph is very rare,
however, and may take some time
to get. There are other areas
with many skull spiders grouped
together, so unless you
absolutely have to have it now,
it's better to wait until later
to obtain it.

Claim the treasure from three
treasure chests and go left.
Defeat the specter enemy (which
resists all forms of physical
attacks, so use Luminatio
instead). Press down at the two
torches to reveal a blue chest
with a magician ring inside.
This ring is the opposite of the
strength ring, upping your INT
by 5 and reducing your STR by 2.

Go through the right exit to
find a villager trapped in
Torpor. Absorb the Glyph and
free a girl named Monica.

   Monica: Oh! Wh-What did I do 
  angel?
   Monica: I'm... I'm Monica. I'
   Monica: Um... Please, let me 
  me!

Head back up through the sunken
ship and go back into the water.
Go left through the hall with
the 3 dark octopi and back into
the room you haven't finished
exploring yet. There are two sea
demons on the left side that you
can absorb Grando from if you
don't already have it, and a red
chest in the upper left corner
of the room containing an iron
ore. Go through the lower left
exit and through the next room
to exit the area.

If you've got 3 iron ores or 5
cotton threads, you can head
back to the village and complete
the first tasks of Eugen and
Monica. Both of these villagers
tasks make better equipment
available to Shanoa, so its
worth it to finish their tasks
promptly. Eugen gives you 2400
gold for bringing him the ore,
and Monica gives you a cotton
dress in exchange for the 5
cotton threads.

Go to Jacob's store to find
copper plates, iron plates,
cotton dresses, sequined
dresses, and iron leggings for
sale there now.

--------------------------------
Tymeo Mountains [Tymeo1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 024 Black Crow, 025
Skull Spider, 028 Winged Guard,
029 Nightmare,
  030 Rock Knight
Items: 2 random chests, Blue
Drops, Mushroom, MP Max Up. Wood
Chests: Chamomile, Iron Ore,
Lapis Lazuli, Rue Green Chests:
Archer Ring, Chrysoberyl, Ruby,
Silver Ore Glyphs: Fides Fio
Villagers: Laura

As soon as you enter the area,
move over to stand between the
two candles and press down to
reveal a chest with Blue Drops
in them. Then run through the
first room to come to a vertical
passage made of up of wooden
platforms and rope bridges.
Scale it all the way to the top,
watching for the black crows
that roost on the middle of the
bridges, to find a save point,
then go back down and through
the left exit.

Go left through the new room and
into a long cave hallway. Defeat
the two rock knights, which are
weak to striking damage from
Macir, and collect the item from
the treasure chest. A nightmare
gallops back and forth in the
next section of this hall, and
the double stalactites hanging
from the ceiling will fall down
as Shanoa gets near them.
Trigger them by jumping towards
them then backwards as you get
near.

Jump on the platforms created by
the falling stalactites to reach
the exit in the ceiling, which
leads to a vertical passage with
several skull spiders and a
mushroom item. Take the passage
to the top and go right into a
room covered with floor spikes.
Use Magnes to shoot over the
spikes to the other side.

Open the treasure chest in the
next room and climb the passage,
which is full of winged guards
and black crows, as well as a
rock knight, until you come to
the first exit. It will be on
the right side of the screen,
and lead to a room with a
villager trapped in Torpor.
Absorb the Glyph to free Laura.

Laura: uh... Mmm. Where am I...?
   Shanoa: You're awake.
   Laura: Last thing I remember 
   Shanoa: No, that was...
   Laura: Eh, I don't want to kn
   Laura: Time to go home, I've 
   Shanoa: What sort of work?
   Laura: I craft jewelry. Name'

Go back to the vertical passage
and up another level to find the
next exit, on the left side. It
leads to a warp room. Finish
climbing the passage to exit
through the top of the screen.
This passage is much shorter and
has two exits. One is at the top
right, but is currently
unreachable, and the other is at
the top left. Take this one to
enter a large room with skull
spiders crawling all over it.
Use Macir to defeat them quickly
and go left, sliding under the
narrow spots to access a statue
and a red chest.

Break the statue to reveal the
Glyph Fides Fio, which gives a
temporary boost to MIND, and
open the red chest for an MP Max
Up. The abundance of skull
spiders here also makes this a
good place to pick up Fidelis
Aranea if you don't already have
it. Watch out for a pair of
black crows in the trees above
you as you make your way across
the top section of the room, and
exit through the left to leave
the area.

Back in town, Laura will make
the accessory Lucky Clover,
which boosts Shanoa's LUCK by 3,
but only if you give her a Lapis
Lazuli, which you should have
obtained by now. Her next quest
involves bringing her a ruby, a
sapphire, and an emerald. The
sapphire and emerald you should
have already found, but the ruby
may still missing.

--------------------------------
Misty Forest Road [Misty1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 032 Bitterfly, 033
Specter, 034 Gravedigger, 035
Werebat,
  036 Black Fomor, 037 Enkidu, 0
Items: 2 random chests, Sage
Wood Chests: Lapis Lazuli, Sage,
Silk Thread, Uncurse Potion
Green Chests: Blow Ring,
Cashmere Thread (50%), Silver
Ore Glyphs: Umbra, Vol Macir,
Arma Chiroptera Villagers: None

Upon entering this area, you'll
almost immediately encounter a
pair of bitterflies. This
enemies flap towards you, fading
into invisibility as they move.
They are weak to slashing
damage, so a weapon like Secare
or Ascia works well against
them. They resist light damage,
however, so Luminatio is not
such a great choice.

After defeating them, move a bit
to the left to run into a
gravedigger. This monster is
also weak to slashing attacks,
but will initially attack from a
distance by hurling its shovel
at you. After that, it will
approach, then lunge forward
with a kick. You want to defeat
it before it gets a chance to
use this attack, because it will
hurl Shanoa backwards if it
connects. This often forces you
back a room, and resets the
enemies so that you have to
start the fight all over again.

A specter floats overhead of the
gravedigger, but is dispatched
by a couple blasts of Luminatio.
A second group of enemies again
composed of a bitterfly, a
gravedigger, and a specter wait
at the other end of the room.
Defeat them and continue on to
the left. A new enemy, the black
fomor, will float towards you.
Wait until it begins forming its
Glyph, then hold up to absorb it
and obtain Umbra.

This Glyph summons a spirit
which snakes forward towards
enemies and does dark damage. It
deals decent damage, and you can
try it out on the gravedigger
and bitterflies (which are
actually weak to dark) just to
Shanoa's left. The next room is
a large, square room with a
statue hiding the Vol Macir
Glyph. This is the level 2
hammer Glyph, and has enhanced
attack power (and MP
consumption), but the same range
as its weaker counterpart.

To the left of the statue is a
werebat guarding a treasure
chest. Werebats sometimes drop
the Arma Chiroptera Glyph, which
turns Shanoa into a werebat and
lets her attack with a slashing
kick and by hurling bats
forward. A pair of specters
float near the top of the room,
and a magnetic orb allows access
to the ledge in the top right
corner, where a piece of sage
can be obtained.

The next room is a long narrow
hallway with an enkidu holding
up a white dragon. The dragon is
your first priority, as its
snaking movements are
unpredictable and its flaming
breath attack deals serious
damage. It's weak to striking
damage, but is difficult to hit
with Vol Macir. A barrage of
Ascias or Luminatios (which it's
also weak to) eliminates this
threat much more quickly.

The enkidu is weak to slashing
damage, so Ascia again works
well against it, but note that
with 450 hp, you will have to
make several runs at it and
retreat to avoid being crushed
by the stone pillar it carries
as a weapon. After eliminating
both enemies, go left into
another large square room.

A specter appears in front of
you almost immediately, but
Luminatio makes short work of
it. Drop down to see a wall with
green light coming off of it.
This is a marker saying that the
Glyph Paries is usable here.
Paries allows Shanoa to pass
through specific walls, but
won't be obtained until much
later in the game. For now, mark
this wall's location and
continue on. Open the treasure
chest, but bypass the top left
ledge (the ledge containing the
rue item), which is another
inaccessible section for now. Go
left through the exit in the
lower left corner of the room.

This room is the last section of
the area, and is filled with
bitterflies and 3 werebats.
Defeat them to continue to the
left and exit the Misty Forest
Road.

--------------------------------
Skeleton Cave [Skele1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 038 Bone Pillar, 039
Skeleton Frisky, 040 Skeleton
Hero, 041 Dullahan,
  042 Skeleton Rex, 043 White Dr
Items: 3 random chests, Black
Drops, HP Max Up, Heart Max Up,
Meaneater Medal Wood Chests:
Lapis Lazuli, Sage, Silk Thread,
Uncurse Potion Green Chests:
Blow Ring, Cashmere Thread
(50%), Silver Ore Glyphs: Vol
Confodere Villagers: None

The Skeleton Cave is home to
many skeleton monsters, which
all share the same strengths and
weaknesses. Striking and light
damage are effective against
them (as is fire, but you have
no way to deal this kind of
damage yet), while they resist
ice and dark. When you enter the
first room, a set of 4 skeleton
friskies will run towards you.
Kneel down on the step and blast
them with a barrage of
Luminatios as they leap
overhead.

Two dullahans march towards you
next, but are easily defeated
using Vol Macir. These monsters
sometimes drop the Glyph Vol
Confodere, the level 2 rapier.
Past them is a red chest that
you can't reach for now, but
once Shanoa obtains the double
jump ability, it will become
available.

Next is a stack of 3 bone
pillars (land-based versions of
fishheads), which have 200 HP
each, and attack by shooting
fireballs out of their mouths.
You can destroy the fireballs by
hitting them. Go left into the
next hall, where more skeleton
friskies attack Shanoa. Farther
down, a low platform has 4 bone
pillars on it and a dullahan on
a higher platform behind it.

Luminatio works well here,
especially when used as the
Light Union attack. Open the
treasure chest on the platform
the dullahan was standing on,
then go down through the floor
exit. The next hall is full of
more dullahans and a new
monster: the skeleton hero.
Clear your way through them
however you like, though Vol
Macir deals the most damage.

Go left across the platform and
then down. Ignore the left exit
for now and head back right
through the downwards exit on
that side of the room. Defeat
the dullahan, then use Ascia to
defeat the white dragon on the
other side of the wall and the
skeleton rex on the floor to
avoid taking any damage from
these monsters.

Open the treasure chest in the
lower left corner of the room,
then go right into the side that
you already cleared out. Drop
down to the next area and use
several Light Unions to clear
out all of the stacks of Bone
Pillars to gain access to the
red chest, which holds an MP Max
Up. Destroy the edge of the
ledge to obtain a Black Drops
item. Also loot the treasure
chest near it.

The next room has a pair of
skeleton rexes in it, but
nothing else. Continue through
to find a save point and the
boss door.

--------------------------------
Maneater
--------------------------------
HP: 2500        Exp: 1500

This boss is weak to light
attacks, so let Luminatio be the
weapon of choice here. The fight
begins with a giant skull
shooting up from the middle of
the room. Make sure you're
starting off to the side so that
you aren't hit as it rises out
of the floor. Immediately begin
launching a barrage of Luminatio
attacks (equip the Magician Ring
to up the effectiveness of
this). They will circle about,
every orb hitting the boss
multiple times.

This is a very easy boss to
beat, with only a few attacks.
First, its red tentacles will
shoot out a wave of rings, but
this attack is prefaced by a
black pulse running down the
length of the tentacle. Simply
make sure it's not aimed at you
when it fires. Next, avoid
spending too much time
underneath it, though you may be
forced to run (or slide, if the
tentacles are low to the floor)
underneath the boss to give
yourself more room on the other
side if it has you backed up to
a wall.

The boss likes to slam itself
into the floor, which is
actually a blessing. It will do
this if you stand close enough
to it, which you can achieve by
striking the tentacles to force
them into the skull. The boss
will then smash into the floor,
allowing for a multitude of free
shots at it. It will then rise
back up in the air and, if
Shanoa is still close enough,
repeat this attack again.

Its last attack is the hardest
one to avoid if you're trying to
get a medal for not getting hit.
The boss releases a bone (either
a skull or what appears to be a
pelvic bone) from one of the
holes in the skull, which
bounces around the room until
hit. The bone has a red aura
around it, making it stand out a
little bit, but with all the
bones in the background and the
boss waving around three giant
red tentacles, it can be
overwhelming to keep track of.

Keep up the Luminatio attacks
until the boss drops, and
collect the Maneater Medal that
appears if you avoided getting
hit, then walk out the left
entrance of the room.

Attacks: Tentacles- These don't
really so much attack as wave
around and wait for you to
  run into them. Strike the tent
  the skull.
Wave of Rings- A black pulse
runs down the length of the
tentacle before this
   attack occurs. Once the pulse
   shoots forth. Avoid this atta
  or not being where it fires.
Skull Smash- The boss likes to
smash itself into the ground,
damaging Shanoa
   only if she's actually undern
  catch her on their way down.
Bone Throw- The boss throws out
either a pelvic bone or a skull,
which bounces
   around the screen until it is
--------------------------------

In the next room, you'll find
Albus holding fast a man in
Torpor, as well as a treasure
chest. Before you can claim it,
however, you'll have to have a
chat with your former comrade.

Shanoa: Let that man go, Albus.
   Albus: As you wish, my dear. 
   Shanoa: Why involve the villa
   Albus: Doesn't it? Worry not,
  my plan is complete.

Albus teleports out of the room.

Open the golden chest to obtain
an Ordinary Rock, which allows
Shanoa to execute a second jump
in mid air. With this double
jump feature, you can collect
several items that were out of
reach before. Absorb the Torpor
to free George, a musician.

   George: So kind of you to sav
   Shanoa: Did he do anything st
   George: He drew some of my bl
   George: As for the others, I 
  worried.
   Shanoa: The village again...?

If you leave this room and come
back, you'll be greeted by the
ferocious skeleton beast, which
packs 400 hp, and 190 exp for
dropping it. You'll have to walk
all the way back out of the
Skeleton Cave now, going through
all the enemies again to exit,
but there is one detour to take
first. Go right through two
rooms, then up through the next
one and finally left into the
exit you bypassed earlier.

Enter with two Luminatios
equipped, and use the Light
Union to lay waste to the swarm
of skeleton friskies charging at
Shanoa. Defeat two skeleton
heroes in the room as well. Run
left through the hall to come to
a dead-end room with a white
dragon guarding two chests. One
is a treasure chest, but the
other is a red chest that is
unreachable until Shanoa can
perform the double jump. It
contains an HP Max Up. In the
last room before the exit,
double jump up to the red chest
there to obtain a Heart Max Up.

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Wygol Village
[Wygol2]
--------------------------------

As soon as you enter the
village, Nikolai walks up to
you.

   Nikolai: You must help us! ..
   Shanoa: You need to tell me w
   Nikolai: Just thinking of it 
   of our blood.
   Nikolai: ...Could he be the m
   Shanoa: I don't understand. W
   Nikolai: There is an old mans
   residence there.
   Nikolai: O Lord, what horrors

This opens up the Somnus Reef as
an explorable area, but before
you head there, backtrack
through some other areas. Start
with the Minera Prison Island.

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Minera Prison
Island [Miner2]
--------------------------------
Items: Tower Ring
Villagers: Aeon

Enter from the left side, and
use the warp room to warp to the
lowest of the three choices, in
the dungeon section of the area.
Head up in the adjacent room,
then right through that room and
up to the tower that you
couldn't climb before. Use
double jump to reach the top and
find a villager trapped in
Torpor and a red chest with the
Tower Ring. Absorb the Glyph to
free him.

   Aeon: S-Saved!
   Aeon: Guess the eternal bliss
   Aeon: I'm Aeon, the chef. I'v
   Aeon: One time it was for thr
   and I'll make you a snack!

Go back the way you came through
the warp point and exit the
area.

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Misty Forest Road
[Misty2]
--------------------------------
Items: Rue

Enter from the left side and go
into the first large square
room. There is a plant in the
upper left corner that was out
of reach before, but with double
jump, it is now obtainable. Lure
a specter to the area in front
of the ledge that you still
can't quite reach with double
jump. Instead, double jump over
the specter, then push down + B
to make Shanoa kick downwards.
If you're positioned right,
she'll kick the specter and
bounce back upwards. You can
then execute a double jump again
and leap onto the ledge.

Collect the rue and exit the
area. Now might be a good time
to return to Wygol Village and
hand over your newly acquired
rue and a chamomile to Abram. As
your reward, you can now buy
anti-venoms and uncurse potions
from the general store. Also,
Aeon wants some salt for his
first task. He hands over corn
soup as your reward. Next, he
wants raw killer fish, which you
can obtain from the killer fish
in the Kalidus Channel.

In the northeast corner of the
village, George stands waiting
for you to deliver to him horse
hair (obtained from the
nightmare is Tymeo Mountains).

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Tymeo Mountains
[Tymeo2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 001 Bat, 026 Scarecrow,
031 Fire Demon, 038 Bone Pillar,
  040 Skeleton Hero, 041 Dullaha
Items: 4 random chests, Crimson
Mask, HP Max Up Glyphs: Pneuma,
Ignis Villagers: Marcel

Enter the area through the upper
left entrance and head right
through the room full of skull
spiders. Double jump over the
gap to to reach the right-side
exit directly across from Shanoa
when you reach the first
vertical passage. This room is
filled with more skull spiders
and 1 treasure chest. Loot it,
then continue to the right.

This next room has a never-
ending supply of boulders
rolling down its slope. You can
jump over them as they come, or
take to the trees and fight your
way through the black crows. A
new enemy, the scarecrow, hops
around down at ground level.
Exit on the right end of the
room to come to a vertical
passage Head down, defeating the
Rock Knight with a couple well-
placed Vol Macir attacks.

Defeat another Rock Knight, and
go left through the exit to find
a red chest with a Crimson Mask
in it. Another spot where you
can use the Paries Glyph is
here, but as with the Misty
Forest Road, you'll have to come
back later for it. For now, go
back to the passage and continue
down. If you're quick, you'll
spot a yeti, but it flees as
soon as you approach it. For
now, continue moving. You'll
have a much easier time
defeating this monster once
you've obtained the Ignis Glyph.

Defeat two more rock knights,
then exit the passage to the
right to come into a cave room.
Run through this room and into
the next, where two nightmares
are charging back and forth.
Kill them, and keep running
until a Fire Demon appears. Wait
to kill it until it attempts to
form an Ignis Glyph. Absorb it,
then return back to the room
with the yeti.

The yeti will likely disappear
before you even see it, but keep
going up into the room with the
red chest and the Paries wall.
Now, go back into the vertical
passage and drop down, firing
Ignis attacks as you go. If you
time it just right, you'll
incinerate the yeti before it
can flee. You may not be able to
deal enough damage with the one
or two hits you get off to kill
it right now. If that's the
case, come back at a higher
level and try again.

Go back to the room with the two
nightmares and the fire demon
and go all the way right through
the exit to reveal a warp room.
Then go up from there into the
next hallway. There will be two
more nightmares dashing back and
forth and another exit
immediately to the left. Take
this exit to come into a
vertical passage with several
magnetic orbs.

Use Magnes to propel yourself to
the top of the chamber, where a
Glyph is creating magical gale-
force winds that threaten to
blow Shanoa right over the side
of the ledge. Use Magnes to hold
onto the orb in the center of
the ledge imagine that there is
a clock face behind you.
Position Shanoa as if she were
at 10 o'clock and let go of
Magnes to sling Shanoa down and
to the right. Hold right to
slide to very edge of the ledge
(One of Shanoa's feet will
actually be over the edge of the
ledge if you're in the right
spot).

Now hold up to begin absorbing
the Glyph as the wind blows
Shanoa back to the left. This
can be very frustrating, as many
times it will seem as though the
Glyph is absorbed, only to have
it snap back at the last
possible instant when Shanoa
falls out the left side. If that
happens, grab the magnetic orb
below the ledge and keep trying.
Note that the Tower Ring
obtained earlier has no effect
on the wind pushing Shanoa; it's
actual purpose it to lessen the
knockback caused by enemy
attacks.

The Glyph itself is called
Pneuma, and it creates a blast
of wind across the ground that
deals slashing damage. With the
disappearance of the Glyph, the
winds die down, and you can move
normally. Unfortunately, there's
nothing left here, so go back to
the bottom of the passage and
right into the room you
originally came from.

Continue right into the next
room, which has a pair of fire
demons, and then into the room
after that, which is a vertical
passage full of skull spiders. A
treasure chest sits by the
entrance and farther up is a red
chest with an HP Max Up. At the
top of the passage, go left
through the next room and into a
vertical passage of rope bridges
and wooden platforms. The left
exit leads to a save room, and
the passage continues onto
another screen from the top.

The next section of the passage
is covered with mist. Most of
platforms have been broken out,
but it's still climbable. Take
the left exit at the top to
enter another mist covered room.
Several scarecrows hop around,
and a new enemy, a cave troll,
leaps out of the trees to
attack. This monster has a long
range (it attacks by spearing
Shanoa with its tongue) and
deals very heavy damage, but it
doesn't move often, making it an
easy target to hit.

At the bottom section is a cave
with a skeleton hero and some
dullahans in it. Two treasure
chests also sit in here. After
looting them, go left into the
next room. A fire demon appears
in the open air, and the cave
below houses a pair of bats, a
stack of bone pillars, and some
skull spiders. Kill these and
claim a Heart Max Up out of a
red chest at the end of the cave
as your reward.

Now backtrack back to the right
exit and go through the room
with the cave troll to the
passage you initially came up
out of. Double jump over the gap
to the right side to find a
villager encased in Torpor. This
is Marcel, a journalist.

   Marcel: Ha! I came out here o
   Shanoa: Hmm?
   Marcel: Witches and wizards, 
   Marcel: Marcel, my good man, 
   Shanoa: ......Hmm?
   Marcel: Ah, right, where are 
   Marcel: Thought there might b
  full of them!
   Shanoa: ......
   Marcel: You, for example! A b
you are gorgeous, I have to say.
   Marcel: "Beautiful Witch Entr
  headline.
   Marcel: Well, I'd better get 

Exit the area and go back to the
village to talk to Marcel. He
gives you a camera and tells him
to get a picture of a cave
troll. Head back into the
mountains again and approach the
cave troll. To get a good
picture, you must be lined up
horizontally with the cave
troll. If you're not, you'll get
a poor photo item instead. If
you successfully snap a picture
of the troll, you'll receive
photo 1. Marcel is also
eventually going to want a
picture of the yeti, so take
that one too while you're here.

Hand the photo 1 item over to
Marcel to receive 6000 gold.
Next, he wants a picture of the
jersey devil (an enemy you won't
see for several more areas). He
has no interest in your photo of
the yeti until you bring him the
one he asks for (which you might
have guessed, since the item is
called photo 3, not photo 2), so
just hang onto it for now. There
is only 1 last stop before you
enter the Somnus Reef left now.

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Monastery [Monas2]
--------------------------------
Items: Fool's Ring Glyph: Cubus
Enter the Monastery and head to
the room where you found the cat
(directly above the first save
point on the map). There is no
quick shortcut there, so you'll
have to walk the entire trip.
Jump up to reach the red chest,
which holds a Fool's Ring. This
item lowers all of Shanoa's
stats by 3 except for luck,
which is raises by 7. Go through
the lower left exit to the room
with all the blocks.

Use a Fire Union to burn away
the stone blocks, then hold up
to absorb the Glyph, Cubus. This
Glyph creates blocks that do
stone damage. This only rarely
has any real effect, but on
enemies that are weak to stone,
it not only does very heavy
damage, but also petrifies them
in place.

--------------------------------
Somnus Reef [Somnu1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 017 Needles, 019
Fishhead, 027 Sea Demon, 044
Saint Elmo, 045 Lorelai,
  046 Edimmu, 047 Decarabia, 048
Items: 9 random chests, 2000
gold bag, MP Max Up, Reinforced
Suit, Heart Max Up,
 Rasalka Medal, HP Max Up, Vic V
Wood Chests: Chamomile, Silk
Thread, Silver Ore (50%) Green
Chests: Chrysoberyl, Sapphire,
Tasty Meat, Wind Ring Glyphs:
Vol Arcus, Vol Ascia Villagers:
Anna, Serge

The first two rooms of this area
are home to three new enemies:
mermen, decarabias, and edimmus.
The decarabias are giant
starfish monsters that slowly
walk across the ground (or
wall). They're practically
invulnerable to striking or
slashing damage, but Ignis will
destroy them. Edimmus are long,
snake-like creatures that
attempt to run into you. Note
that both of these monsters will
poison you if you come into
contact with them.

Move through both rooms; make
sure to go to the upper right
corner of the second room and go
into the warp room to open it
up. In the bottom right corner
of the second room, an exit
leads down into a vertical
passage with a sea demon and
several needles in it. There is
also a treasure chest on the
right side by where the sea
demon appears. A bag with 2000
gold is at the bottom by a
second sea demon. After you grab
it, go right through the exit.

The next room has a treasure
chest on the floor in the middle
of the room guarded by a merman,
and an edimmu swimming around
attempting to poison you. Defeat
both and leave the room through
the lower right corner. The next
room has a red chest with an MP
Max Up in it and two stacks of
fishheads on either side. Also,
a new enemy, the lorelai, can be
found in this room. This monster
drops the merman meat item
required for one of the tasks
for Aeon, the chef.

In the lower right corner of the
room is a statue with the Vol
Arcus (level 2 bow Glyph) behind
it, and in the upper right
corner, a lorelai guards a
treasure chest. Exit the room
through the lower left corner to
come into a vertical passage
with 2 decarabias. Kill them
with Ignis and proceed up to the
top of the passage.

Go left into a large room and
immediately drop to the floor to
find a red chest with a
reinforced suit in it. Kill all
of the decarabias in the room,
and collect 2 more treasure
chests on the floor, then break
open the wall in the upper left
corner to reveal a room
containing a villager trapped in
Torpor and a cat jumping at the
Glyph.

Anna: Thank you very much, Miss.
   Shanoa: You're welcome.
   Anna: Well, Tom? I was very p
   Tom: Meow.
   Shanoa: You can talk to the c
   Anna: That's right! Only I ca
   Anna: Okay, I'm worried about
  Miss.

Anna (and her brother) are
unique in that they are both
children, and neither of them
will have any tasks for Shanoa
until both of them and their
mother have been rescued. Go
back through the room full of
decarabias and down through the
passage with 2 of them through
the lower left exit to come into
a small room with a lorelai
floating in it.

Kill the monster and continue
left into a short vertical
passage leading downward.
Another new enemy, Saint Elmo,
swims through here. These
ghostly creatures will continue
to appear, no matter how many
you kill, so ignore them and
exit through the bottom of the
passage.

As soon as you enter the new
room, go through the left exit
to find another warp room, then
go back into the main room and
drop to the bottom of the screen
to find a treasure chest. This
entire room is crawling with
Saint Elmos, so kill them as
they get in your way and move to
the upper right corner of the
room, stopping only to collect a
Heart Max Up from a red chest in
the middle of the room on the
floor.

Go right through the next room
to find a save point just
outside a boss door. Enter when
your ready, but first, equip
Glyphs that do slashing damage.

--------------------------------
Rusalka
--------------------------------
HP: 2800        Exp: 2000

The biggest problem with this
boss is trying to predict which
of its attacks it will use next.
All of them are easily
avoidable, if you can figure out
what the boss is doing before it
happens. This isn't too terribly
hard, since it will move its
hands differently for every
attack.

Arcus is definitely the weapon
to go with for this. As soon as
you get in there, let loose with
a hail of arrows. Try to keep
the boss at the opposite end of
the screen and use backdash to
keep out of the range of its
splash attack. The only problem
with this weapon is that it will
destroy the pillars she drops
down from the ceiling. A good
place to stand then is directly
at the edge so that the bow
forms outside the pillar. This
has the added benefit of keeping
Shanoa under cover to prevent
the boss's tsunami wave from
hitting you.

Backdash will also help with the
boss's hair stab attack, and the
only real problem you might have
is having to get over top of the
boss when you've been backed up
to a wall. This generaly isn't
hard to do, but sometimes poor
luck will cause the boss to
raise its hands for an attack
just as you're over top of it.
Shanoa gets hit, and there goes
your Rusalka Medal.

Arcus deals damage quickly (and
effectively), but if you'd
prefer to stay off ground level,
you can stand on one of the
pillars and use Pneuma instead.
Once you've finished this boss,
collect your winnings and be on
your way.

Attacks: Splash- The boss raises
a hand up behind it, then slaps
it down in a scooping
  motion to send a wave of water
  rise  up until its directly in
  a screen length.. It can be av
  the right time or by backdashi
Water Cannon- The boss raises
one hand into the air, and the
other dips into
   the water on the floor. Both 
   a high-powered jet of water a
   this by staying on ground lev
 the boss while you're there).
Hair Stab- Probably the hardest
attack to see coming, the boss
moves in close
  and causes its hair to form in
  you. The best way to avoid thi
  attack.
Pillar Drop- The boss raises
both hands into the air and
drops down several
   pillars of stone with a platf
   to destroy these, as they pro
   and a convenient platform for
   only damage you if Shanoa hap
   as they fall.
Tsunami- This attack can only be
avoided if there is a pillar for
Shanoa to
  stand under. The boss raises o
  to break off whatever your doi
  prepared to lose about half yo
--------------------------------

Go right through the next two
rooms, both of which are single
screens, into another large room
with Saint Elmos flying around
everywhere. An edimmu and a
lorelai call this room their
home as well. There are two
treasure chests on the floor to
collect, and exit through the
hole in the wall in the upper
right corner. You'll walk into a
room with a red chest containing
an HP Max Up.

Go back out the exit and go up
into the next room. You'll come
into a vertical passage with 3
decarabias and a treasure chest
in the lower right corner. Exit
through the upper left corner.
The next room is a single screen
with an edimmu heading straight
for you. Kill it quickly and go
left into a vertical passage
with 2 more decarabias and a
treasure chest sitting on the
floor.

Go up through the passage to
come to up to a room where you
can leave the water for dry
land. In the upper left corner,
go through the exit to find a
second child villager. Also in
the room, the stone corner
overhead is breakable to reveal
a strange item known as Vic
Viper.

   Serge: Oh, phew! Thanks, lady
   Shanoa: Should I walk you hom
   Serge: Nah, I'm not a little 

Back in the other room, you'll
find Saint Elmos all over the
place as well as an edimmu. Make
your way through it to the right
side to enter another room
filled with more Saint Elmos and
another edimmu. In the lower
right corner, you'll find a
statue with the Vol Ascia (level
2 axe Glyph) in it. Exit through
the top right corner to leave
the area.

--------------------------------
Giant's Dwelling [Giant1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 002 Zombie, 003
Skeleton, 039 Skeleton Frisky,
049 Ladycat,

  050 Ectoplasm, 051 Curse Diva,

054 Skeleton Beast, 113 Goliath
Items: Temperance Ring, Caprine,
Black Drops, Goliath Medal Wood
Chests: None Green Chests: None
Glyphs: Vol Falcis, Vol Secare
Villagers: None

The first hall you come into
will have several ectoplasms
flying around. Avoid getting hit
by these enemies at all cost;
they will curse you, which
drains your MP to 0 and keeps it
there until the curse wears off.
The skeleton beast has standard
skeleton weaknesses, so Ignis is
a good choice for defeating it.
Continue to the next room, where
you'll fight a ladycat. This
monster resists striking and
light damage, but is weak to
slashing and fire. Directly
overhead when you first enter
the room, you can break away the
stone to reveal a temperance
ring.

The next room has two new
enemies in it at well: automaton
ZX26 and miss murder. Miss
murders sometimes drops the Vol
Falcis (level 2 sickle) Glyph
when slain. At the top of the
room is a red chest with a
caprine in it. From there, go
left to find a save room, and
right to find the villager,
Daniela.

   Daniela: Oh, are we done alre
   it?
   Shanoa: Disappointing?
   Daniela: You're not that rasc
   Daniela: You're like a doll--
   is that man coming? I promise
   be waiting.
   Daniela: Oh yes, I'm Daniela.
   me.
   Daniela: Well, home I go. Don
    with blood this stale...

Go back into the previous room
and leave through the lower
right corner. You'll come into a
small room with a curse diva
floating in the air. The next
room exits the backside of the
house to a path with a curse
diva (another monster that
curses you if you touch it), a
ladycat, and several zombies on
it. Go through the room to find
a similar one next to it, only
this time containing skeletons
and skeleton friskies instead.
Jump up to the ledge over the
exit and press down to reveal a
blue chest containing Black
Drops. The exit leads into
another house.

The first room in the house has
another automaton ZX26 in it.
After that, you'll find another
large room with several curse
divas, ladycats, and a miss
murder in it. Exit via the lower
right corner. You'll run into a
hallway with another skeleton
beast in it. After you drop it,
keep going right to a second
large room in this house.

This room has a large number of
ladycats, and a few miss murders
and curse divas as well. Go
through the lower right exit
first to find a room with a
statue in it. Break open the
statue to reveal a Vol Secare
Glyph (level 2 sword). Now, go
back into the previous room and
make your way to the upper left
corner. You'll find a hallway
with 6 ectoplasms in it,
followed by the top section of a
room you've already been in.

Defeat the enemies in front of
you and keep going left into the
next room. Dodge the ectoplasm
and head up, then right. Here,
you'll find a save point and the
boss door.

--------------------------------
Goliath
--------------------------------
HP: 4200        Exp: 2500

This boss has a lot of HP, so
expect this fight to take a
little while. The upside is that
all of his attacks are very easy
to dodge. This boss, like the
last one, is weak to slash
types, so Arcus is good choice
again.

The Bow Union works especially
well in this fight if it's used
at the correct time. Basically,
any time this boss is moving it
works great, but it works even
better if you catch him in the
middle of one of his attacks.
When the boss crouches forward,
then leaps up into the air
towards you, run (or slide)
underneath it and use the Bow
Union to rain arrows down on its
stretched out body.

Keep yourself out a distance and
fire off volleys of arrows
between its attacks, then use
the time while its attacking to
recharge your MP, thus leaving
you fully focused on dodging the
attack. The only thing to really
be careful of is when it slams
its fist into the ceiling. This
attack causes loose boards and
other rubbish to fall down
across the screen randomly, and
can sometimes be a pain to get
around.

Attacks: Jumping Floor Slam- The
boss crouches down, then leaps
forward and smashes both
     its fists into the floor. T
     to rip across the room, and
     of range. The best way to d
     slide, if you're more comfo
     as it jumps.
Wind-up Punch- The boss winds up
his arm, then slams it into the
floor, causing
   spikes to shoot out from the 
   staying on the other side of 
Stomp Walk- The boss starts at
one side of the room and begins
a paced stomp
   across it. The only way to av
   and kneel down right in front
   right over you.
Crouch Punch- The boss goes into
a crouch and waits for you to
get close. If
   you do, it lashes out with a 
   waiting, if Shanoa isn't in r
   floor slam attack instead.
--------------------------------

Exit the right side of the boss
room to find Albus waiting for
you.

   Albus: You seem to be feeling
   Shanoa: A blind man could hav
   Albus: Just like when we were
  crying I'd feel terrible and l
Shanoa: What are you getting at?
   Albus: Why not try it now, an
   Shanoa: ...Try crying? You kn
   Albus: Apologies, Shanoa, but
   Albus: Still, it'd be a shame

   Albus holds out his hand and 

   Shanoa: Again... What are you
   Albus: Oh, just accept it. It
   Albus: Besides, it's what you

Absorb the Glyph, which is
Dominus Anger.

   Albus: Shanoa... Do you know 
   Shanoa: The ultimate Glyph, o
   Albus: Half-right. But think 
   Albus: Nothing comes from not
   Albus: What do you suppose Ba
   Shanoa: Hmph... What?
   Albus: They used [Dracula], S
   Albus: [Dominus] is made from
   Shanoa: [Dominus] is...? It c
   Albus: Ask the old man if you
   Albus: And be quick about it;

Albus teleports out of the room.

   Shanoa: Master Barlowe...
   Shanoa: Is Albus telling the 

Continue right to exit the area.

--------------------------------
Tristis Pass [Trist1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 001 Bat, 043 White
Dragon, 050 Ectoplasm, 055
Balloon, 056 Arachne,
  057 Lizardman, 058 Armored Bea
  063 Altair, 078 Mimic, 108 Gia
Items: 9 random chests, Heart
Max Up, Amanita, Lover's Ring,
HP Max Up, Onyx,
 Chariot Ring, MP Max Up, Body S
Wood Chests: Rue, Silver Ore,
Tonic, Zircon Green Chests:
Diamond, Emerald, Ruby,
Traveler's Hat Glyphs: Vol
Scutum, Vol Grando, Fidelis
Noctua, Fulgur, Vol Hasta, Inire
Pecunia Villagers: Irina

Run through the entrance room
into a large room. Many of the
rooms are laid out similar to
those of the Tymeo Mountains.
Here, you'll find a cave with 2
arachne monsters and a treasure
chest. The arachnes can spit out
an attack that poisons Shanoa,
so dispatch them quickly or be
prepared to dodge. On the hill,
you'll find a balloon, which
releases damaging spores into
the air (including a giant
cluster once you kill the
balloon.)

The next room is a vertical
passage that looks very familiar
(it's scalable via wooden
platforms and rope bridges).
You'll start at the top.
Immediately go to the left to
find a warp room, then go down
off the bottom of the screen. On
the next one, you'll find a
lizardman. This monster
sometimes drops the level 2
shield Glyph, Vol Scutum.
Continue down to the next level
and go right to find a save
room.

At the bottom of the passage, go
left through a stone room into
an ice-covered cavern. You'll
immediately run into a giant
skeleton (the exact same as the
boss from the Minera Prison
Island, right down to its
number). After that, there is a
wooden chest on the floor. This
chest is actually a mimic, which
attacks by sliding into you.
Another giant skeleton waits at
the other end of the hallway.

The next room has a frozen
pillar of ice blocking your way,
so climb straight up to the top.
You'll find an iced slope that
you can climb up. Use the
magnetic orb to sling yourself
into the upper left corner and
hold down up to absorb the Glyph
floating in the air. This is Vol
Grando (the level 2 ice attack.)
As soon as you absorb the Glyph,
the ice will thaw and the water
will begin flowing again.

Fall down into the previous area
at the very left most side of
the waterfall and then double
jump to get to the ledge with
the red chest. Open it to
receive a Heart Max Up. Fall
down to the next ledge and pick
up the amanita item (it looks
like a mushroom). You can break
open the wall here to reveal the
final villager trapped in
Torpor.

It should be noted that this
game has multiple endings, and
one of these endings occurs when
Shanoa finally confronts Albus.
This only happens if you haven't
rescued all of the villagers. As
this is the last one, you may
want to leave her behind for now
so that you can view the
alternate ending, then come back
later to save her.

   Irina: You saved me! Oh, than
  rescued me, but please excuse 
   Irina: I'm worried about my c
   Irina: And... well, I have to

Go back to the waterfall and
drop down to the last ledge to
get a treasure chest. Then,
stand in the middle of the
waterfall and push down to
reveal a blue chest with the
Lover's Ring. Head left to find
a room covered in floor spikes
with magnetic orbs hanging above
them. Normally, this wouldn't be
a difficult challenge, but to
make things worse, bats come
flying at you from off-screen.
You can make it across unharmed
by waiting for a bat to appear
and either killing it or dodging
it, then flinging yourself
across two orbs and repeating.

If you get impatient, you might
find yourself getting hit by a
bat. This does very little
damage, but it does have the
added effect of dropping you to
the floor spikes. Once you've
reached the other side, go up
through the hole in the ceiling.
You'll find an armored beast
here, a monster weak to slashing
and fire attacks. Defeat it and
to to the left. Destroy the
white dragon in the next room
and open the red chest to
receive an HP Max Up (which
conveniently heals any damage
you might have taken from that
spiked floor room).

Go right, slaying the armored
beast again in the process, to a
vertical passage with 3
ectoplasms in it. Defeat them,
and blast a wall on the right
side half way up to reveal an
onyx. Go left through a stone
hall to vertical passage
complete with rope bridges.
Defeat the lizardmen guarding
the bridges and take out the
altairs (birds that fly in from
off-screen) as they appear.

There is a save room off the
left side about half way up the
passage, and a warp room at the
top to the right. After opening
the room, go left. This is
another sloping hill room with a
cave in it. Balloons abound, as
well as the owl enemy, which has
a Glyph that it rarely drops.
This Glyph is called Fidelis
Noctua, and it summons an owl to
fight with you.

The cave contains 2 arachne, and
also 2 treasure chests. The next
room has more owls, as well as a
few thunder demons, which you
can absorb the Glyph Fulgur
(level 1 lightning Glyph) from.
This is infinitely more useful
than Vol Fulgur. Not only does
it have a higher attack power,
but it costs less MP and shoots
out concentrated balls of
lightning, which hang in the air
for a few seconds and can hit a
stationary enemy multiple times
in a single shot.

A statue at the top of the hill
can be broken to reveal the Vol
Hasta Glyph (level 2 lance).
Then go down the wood platforms
near it to find 2 treasure
chests and a red chest
containing a Chariot Ring. Exit
the room through the upper left
corner to come into another
room; this one is covered in
mist. Take the cave directly in
front of Shanoa to find 2
arachnes and 2 treasure chests.
There are several owls in the
trees on the hill, and another
thunder demon.

There is another room after this
one. Head straight into the cave
in front of Shanoa and defeat 2
lizardmen to gain access to a
statue. Break it open and absorb
the Inire Pecunia Glyph. This
handy Glyph makes it so that
enemies drop more money when its
active. Keep going left (killing
another pair of lizardmen in the
process) to find a treasure
chest and a red chest with an MP
Max Up in it.

Go back to the beginning of the
room and jump straight up the
tree branches to find a red
chest with a body suit in it.
Make your way across the hill to
the upper left side and exit
through there to leave the area.

--------------------------------
Oblivion Ridge [Obliv1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 054 Skeleton Beast, 057
Lizardman, 058 Armored Beast,
062 Werewolf,
  063 Altair, 068 Stone Rose, 07
Items: Diamond, Chamomile,
Gravedo Medal Wood Chests: None
Green Chests: None Glyphs:
Sapiens Fio Villagers: None

Enter the area and proceed to
the left. You'll immediately
encounter a lizardman, followed
by a skeleton beast and a
werewolf. The entire time,
altairs will fly across the
screen and either divebomb Shina
or drop flea men down to fight.
A second lizardman waits at the
left end of the hall.

In the next room, there is a
statue on the upper left ledge
that you can't quite reach. To
get to it, stand below it and
wait for an altair to fly in,
then double jump over it and
push down + B to drop kick onto
it. If you aim it right, Shanoa
will bounce back into the air,
allowing you to execute another
double jump to reach the ledge.
Break the statue and absorb
Sapiens Fio, a Glyph that raises
Shanoa's INT (which increases
the damage output from all magic
type attacks).

Use the save room by taking the
exit in the lower right corner
of the room, then head back to
the lower left side to enter a
boss door.

--------------------------------
Gravedorcus
--------------------------------
HP: 3600        Exp: 3000

This is a long, tedious fight.
The boss spends a considerable
portion of its time underground,
where you can't hit it. This
boss is weak to ice, so Grando
and Vol Grando are good attacks
to use here. For this strategy,
have Vol Grando equipped, with
Sapiens Fio as your support
ability. Turn Sapiens Fio on
before you ever get into the
room to make sure you start with
full MP.

As soon as the fight starts, a
stone block shoots up underneath
you. Get off of this
immediately. If you don't, the
boss will perform a leap attack
on you, damaging you and
affording very little time to
counterattack. Before it gets a
chance to, drop off the right
side. Turn around and throw 2
Vol Grandos at the block. If you
time it right, they'll hit the
boss as it does a rolling fin
slash (this attack always ends
when it reaches the block, if
there is one there).

Next, make sure Shanoa is about
a pace away from the block and
turn to face the right. The boss
will come up out of the sand
facing you. If you're right next
to it, it will release a blast
of poisonous gas, but if you're
standing near the pillar, it
will instead spray out a hail of
spiked balls. After it fully
surfaces, use an Ice Union to
create a whirlwind of snow and
ice. This not only damages the
boss, but it will also destroy
all of the spike balls, keeping
you from getting hit and also
keeping them out from underfoot.

The boss dives back down again
into the ground. It will do one
of two things at this point. It
will either do another rolling
fin slash, or it will do do a
stone block tail slap. If it's
the rolling fin slash, fire off
another 2 Vol Grandos and jump
onto the block. Then hop back
down and prepare to unleash
another Ice Union with it
surfaces for its next spike ball
breath attack.

If it does the tail slap, make
sure you're on the right side
and feel free to blast it with
Ice Unions or repeated Vol
Grandos. The boss will slap the
stone towards the center of the
room, then burrow completely
underground. Run left now to
find another stone block. The
boss should either begin its
cycle over again (if there is
another stone block) or start at
one end of the room and do a
straight run charge.

If it charges, run to the right
in front of it until the boss
door comes into view. Kneel down
and watch the boss jump over
your head, then backdash twice
to get out of the way as it
slams into the wall and flops
back down to the ground. Unleash
more Ice Unions and Vol Grandos.
If the boss isn't dead yet,
prepare to repeat these
strategies until it is.

Attacks: Leap- The boss jumps
out of the sand at you and then
dives back in. Rolling Fin
Slash- The boss rolls upwards,
causing the ground to bulge up.
Its
    fin slashes forward as it di
    away from the boss to avoid 
Poison Cloud Breath- The boss
breaches the ground and breathes
out a cloud of
     poisonous gas. Stand out of
Spike Ball Breath- The boss
breaches the ground (in exactly
the same animation
    of the poison cloud breath) 
    balls, which remain on the g
    run into.
Straight Run Charge- The boss
starts at one end of the room
and rushes all the
     way across, leaping out of 
     enough. It may bounce off t
     Duck underneath it as it ju
Stone Block Slam- The boss slams
a stone block straight up into
the ceiling,
    damaging Shanoa. It only per
     standing on the block.
Stone Block Tail Slap- The boss
rises out of the ground and
positions its tail
     next to a stone block. It t
     it flying in several pieces
     other side of the block bef
          this attack.
--------------------------------

Head left through the room to
find a group of monsters
containing a lizardman, a
werewolf, and a stone rose.
Defeat them, then continue to
the left to break open a wall
containing a diamond. A ledge in
the upper right corner has
another werewolf standing on it.
Unfortunately, the only way up
there right now it to bounce off
a werewolf as it leaps into the
air to perform an attack. The
werewolf doesn't always use this
attack, and it has to be done at
a specific point.

The prize for getting up there
is a chamomile, which is not
even close to worth the trouble,
so ignore the ledge and continue
to the upper left corner. Defeat
a few lizardmen, some
werewolves, and an armored beast
to reach the outside of a
church.

   Shanoa: I sense strong magic 

Enter the church, where Shanoa
walks towards a Glyph hanging in
the air, only to be hit by
Torpor. Albus teleports into the
room in front of Shanoa.

   Albus: Try to relax, Shanoa; 
  pieces, by the way... It's tim

   Albus absorbs the Glyph.

   Albus: Gyaaaaah! It's working
   Shanoa: But Barlowe said you 
   Shanoa: You let me absorb the
   Albus: Ha! You see, I-- Urgh.

   Albus leans forward and clutc
   and slouches.

   Shanoa: ...What's happening?
   Albus: ...And now... My wish 
   Albus: Shanoa, I--

   Albus pulls himself back upri

   Albus: Rrgh... What!? Th-This

   Albus clutches his head and b

   Albus: No... I've come too fa
   Albus: ...We'll settle this l

   Albus teleports away.

   Shanoa: Wait, Albus!

   The Torpor effect disappears.

   Shanoa: This is bad... Master

Go all the way to the left and
break open the wall to obtain a
Hermit Ring. If you've been
keeping on on Daniela's tasks,
take the opportunity to draw the
church sketch she wants. Once
you're finished, run back
through the area to the exit (or
use a magical ticket if you're
feeling lazy).

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Ecclesia [Eccle2]
--------------------------------
Return to Ecclesia to speak with
Barlowe.

   Barlowe: You say he hosts the
   such a short time... I fear h
   Barlowe: We foolishly assumed
   [Dominus]... and so we left h
   way you took in those first t
   Barlowe: But wait, those piec
   Shanoa: That is correct.
   Barlowe: He wants them back, 
   Shanoa: What choice do we hav
   Barlowe: Indeed, you have the
   devours the mind. Poor Albus,
   will.
   Barlowe: He can't come back t
   Barlowe: Shanoa, free him fro
   Shanoa: Yes, Sir.
   Barlowe: His trail must lead 
     sake, come back alive.

Now leave the area to access the
map. You'll see two new areas,
but only one of which you can
access. Enter the Argila Swamp.

--------------------------------
Argila Swamp [Argil1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 010 Une, 064
Mandragora, 065 Jersey Devil,
066 Owl Knight,
 067 Chosen Une, 068 Stone Rose
Items: 1 random chest Wood
Chests: Rue, Silver Ore, Tonic,
Zircon Green Chests: Diamond,
Emerald, Ruby, Traveler's Hat
Glyphs: None Villagers: None

The first thing you'll see is a
jersey devil. Close in on it and
snap a picture for Marcel, then
slaughter it. The green indents
on the ground are swamp matter,
which slow Shanoa down, but
don't harm her. However, human-
like creatures pop up out of
there and cover themselves in
green plants. They then drop
regular unes behind them as they
walk. If a chosen une walks into
you, you'll be poisoned. A
little bit farther on, a
mandragora pops up and unleashes
its scream attack before it
explodes.

On the next screen, you'll find
a stone rose. An owl knight
attacks next. More of the same
enemies you've already
encountered will continue to
assault you across the area,
which is only 3 rooms wide.
Fight your way through each room
and out the left side to gain
access to the Mystery Manor.

--------------------------------
Mystery Manor [Myste1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 069 Mad Butcher, 070
White Fomor, 071 Evil Force, 072
Flea Man,
  078 Mimic, 115 Albus
Items: 2000 Gold Bag x2, Gold
Ore, Albus Medal Wood Chests:
None Green Chests: None Glyphs:
Vol Luminatio, Vol Umbra,
Acerbatus, Dominus Agony
Villagers: Cat

   Shanoa: Albus is here...
   Shanoa: I must end this now w

After Shanoa finishes talking to
herself, head left into the
first room to find a mad butcher
and a white fomor. The butcher
likes to charge at you after it
revs up its chainsaw, and the
white fomor will fly around,
teleporting and summoning balls
of light. This attack is
actually the Glyph Vol
Luminatio, which you should use
this opportunity to take.

Defeat a flea man in the next
room, then proceed to a room
with several mad butchers
standing about. As soon as they
see Shanoa, they'll attack. In
the center of the room is a
mimic disguised as a treasure
chest. The upper right corner of
the room leads to a small room
with two flea men and a bag
containing 2000 gold.

Go back to the room you just
came out of and leave again,
this time through the upper left
side. You'll run into another
white fomor and an old familiar
face, an evil force. The next
room has two white fomors,
another evil force, and a mad
butcher. At the top of the room
is a village cat, crouched down
on the platform. Its a purple-
black color, so it can be easy
to miss.

Go through the upper left exit
to find another room with flea
men and a 2000 gold bag. and the
lower right exit goes into a
hall with a white fomor, 2 evil
forces, and a flea man. At the
end of the hall is a red chest
with a gold ore in it. Once
you've cleared this room out,
head back to the other room and
drop through the hole in the
floor on the left side.

Defeat the 2 white fomors, and
go right. Use the save point in
the next room, but don't go
through the boss door just yet.
Head back left through the room
with the white fomors and go
through the left exit. You'll
come into a room that's
completely black, but with
several spiked blocks floating
back and forth.

Run up to the first one so that
Shanoa is standing just to the
right of it, then kneel down and
slide twice in rapid succession
when the block is at the height
of its move to slide under both
of them. Next, wait until the
block moving horizontally
overhead is out of way, then
jump up and to the left to land
on a raised platform about the
same height off the ground as
Shanoa is. Duck down to avoid
another block and wait until its
to the right of Shanoa, then
slide left off the ledge.

Continue to slide all the way
across the floor until Shanoa
can't go any farther left to
avoid the block overhead. The
next jump is tricky. You have to
wait until both the horizontally
moving block is all the way to
the right and the vertically
moving one is all the way up.
This is your window to jump
through that gap straight over
the next platform and land on
the other side of it. This
platform, like the last one, is
about Shanoa's height.

Now there are two blocks right
next to each other, both going
up and down in a small space.
Wait to time it right, then
bypass both with a slide. Where
the next vertical-moving block
is, you'll run into another
platform. This is another jump
of timing, where you need the
block moving horizontally and
the one moving vertically to be
out of your way before you jump.
If you need to, you can stop on
the platform and wait for the
second and third vertical blocks
to get out of your way before
you drop down from the other
side.

Slide under the next block to
avoid it, and continue left
until Shanoa is blocked again.
By now, you should be familiar
with how to navigate over these
platforms, but there is an extra
twist to this one. The first
platform leads up to a second
one instead of dropping back
down, so you'll have to pause on
it (kneeling down to avoid
getting it) and wait for the
second set of blocks to line up.
This set is unique in that
instead of waiting for the block
to rise to the top, you want it
at the bottom of its swing so
that you can jump over it.

After you get to the other side,
a Glyph comes into view. This is
Vol Umbra, and with it absorbed,
the darkness disappears. Vol
Umbra acts much like Fulgur,
except that the balls it shoots
out do dark damage instead of
lightning. Make your way back
through the spikes, a task
that's much easier now that the
light is on.

Go back to the save room (saving
again, of course) and enter the
boss door. You'll find Albus on
the other side. If you haven't
saved all the villagers yet,
defeating Albus gives you the
first ending.

   Shanoa: If this is how it mus
   Albus: The Dominus is mine, a
   Albus: Hand it over, Shanoa.
   Shanoa: Is this why you betra
   Shanoa: Did you trade your ho
  darkness?
   Shanoa: What did you hope to 

   Albus clutches his head, then

   Albus: Shanoa... What am I--!
   Albus: No, Shanoa... RUN! You
   Shanoa: ...Albus?

   Albus clutches his head again

   Albus: Run...? Ha! What good 
   Albus: All of humanity is mer
  Lord Dracula!
   Albus: Give yourself as suste
  your honor!!
   Shanoa: ......
   Shanoa: Even in this state, w
  pity you.
   Shanoa: It's my duty to free 
  meet such an end.
   Shanoa: Rest in peace, Albus.

--------------------------------
Albus
--------------------------------
HP: 4000        Exp: 0

Albus is weak to both slashing
and dark. Vol Umbra is a good
weapon to use here, but it does
have one large drawback. The
orbs block your view of Albus,
which can make it difficult to
predict Albus's next attack.
However, there is a way around
this. Most of Albus's attacks
are straight forward, and you
can dodge them in the same way.
It doesn't always work, but if
you don't care about obtaining
the Albus Medal, it will get you
through the fight.

Almost all of Albus's attacks
come from his gun, Agartha. When
he stops while facing you,
simply jump over him. An
interesting thing to note about
Albus is that, unlike other
bosses, running into him doesn't
actually hurt you. Use this to
your advantage. Vol Umbra's
range is just short enough that
if you land beside Albus and
fire shots off at him, he'll run
outside the range of the orb.
However, if you land on him and
fire, they'll reach exactly the
right point to hit him.

Make sure to absorb the
Acerbatus Glyph he generates
when firing his Max Shot attack.
If you get hit by this, you'll
be cursed and have all your MP
drained. Once you've absorbed
Acerbatus, however, this attack
gives you a good countering

window. It's easy to see it
coming because of the Glyph
forming over Albus's

head, easy to dodge by simply
jumping over it, and it takes
long enough to form

that you can usually get behind
him and blast him with a cluster
of Vol Umbras.

Similarly, Albus's Optical Shot
attack can be avoided simply by
jumping to the other side. If
you don't make it, however,
you're likely to be hit, as this
attack spreads over a very wide
range. His regular bullets are
also easy to avoid; just jump
over them. Basically, whenever
Albus is facing you and raises
his gun, jump over top of him,
then spin in place and let him
have it.

His fire kick is a different
story. He likes to do this when
you're in the air, making it
difficult to avoid, or if you're
too close. He has two versions,
one where he jumps straight up
and one where he leaps across
the screen. Another leaping
attack is his Torpor attack.
Unlike Shanoa's version, this
isn't a Glyph so much as a
series of yellow crystals he
drops as he jumps across the
screen. When the crystals hit
the ground (or wall), a burst of
crystal shoots up. The crystals
don't do damage until they've
hit the ground, so you can run
right through these to position
yourself on a clear space.

Albus likes to move a lot, and
it requires good reflexes to
dodge all his attacks, but it's
doable. If you manage it,
collect the Albus Medal as your
reward.

Attacks: Bullet- Albus fires a
bullet, either standing or
crouching down. Dodge this by
  jumping over it.
Slide- A simple slide across the
ground, just like Shanoa's. Max
Shot- Albus fires a shot of
Acerbatus. This not only deals a
lot of damage,
  but it curses you as well. You
  the Glyph as Albus is casting 
Optical Shot- Albus concentrates
light and dark energy into his
gun, then
   shoots them out in a spiral. 
   right spot of the spiral, but
   the other side of him as he's
Fire Kick- Albus leaps,
spinning, into the air. He
trails flames after him as
  he goes.
Torpor- Albus jumps across the
room and drops a line of Torpors
behind him.
--------------------------------

   Shanoa: This will complete [D
  consumed him.
   Shanoa: Can this cursed power
   Shanoa: ...I'll return the fi

Absorb Dominus Agony.

--------------------------------
Alternate Ending
--------------------------------

The screen fades to Ecclesia,
where Shanoa stands before
Barlowe.

   Shanoa: It's done, Sir. I've 
   Barlowe: And Albus? did he yi
   Shanoa: It... was too late. I
   Barlowe: Unfortunate... but i
   Barlowe: He wanted just the s
   too much.
   Barlowe: But still, there is 
   mission through.
   Barlowe: Good Albus would hav
   Barlowe: The time has come-- 

   The screen fades again and re
   ritual altar.

   Barlowe: Take all three piece
   Barlowe: Upon the vessel cast
   Barlowe: And so, the world's 
   Barlowe: Ecclesia's wish... T
   Barlowe: Now go, Shanoa! You 

Equip all three Dominus Glyphs,
and hit the red-glowing stone
with a Dominus Union.

   Shanoa: ...Why? I'm fading...

Shanoa collapses to the ground.

   Barlowe: Rejoice, Shanoa.
   Barlowe: With your sacrifice,

The screen gives you brief
glimpses of all the villagers
you haven't saved yet, then
saves your game and gives you
the game over screen.
--------------------------------

   Shanoa: What's...going on!? A

   The screen goes black.

   Albus: Name's Albus. I guess 
   Shanoa: My brother, huh? ...A

   The screen flashes.

   Albus: Argh!
   Shanoa: You can't keep doing 
  place.
   Albus: What... kind of brothe
   Albus: That's... my role.

   The screen flashes.

   Albus: Accepting Dominus is l
  emotions.
   Barlowe: I see...
   Albus: That being the case, w
  higher...
   Albus: Sir! Name me as the be
   Barlowe: But you aren't able-
   Albus: There has to be a way!
   Barlowe: All right, Albus. I 
   Barlowe: But, before all that

   The screen fades back in.

   Shanoa: ...But Barlowe told m
   Shanoa: Albus, did you steal 
   ???: So you figured it out. .
   Shanoa: Albus!? I... I can he
   Albus: Inside [Dominus], actu
   Shanoa: That isn't possible.
   Albus: It would seem the bloo
  possble.
   Albus: One of life's fortunat
   Albus: Betrayed by the old ma
   Albus: In this way I had take
  at risk.
   Albus: Alone, I continued my 
   Albus: As you know, that Glyp
   Albus: To this end, I require
   Albus: Since they vanished ye
  heritage.
   Shanoa: ...The villagers.
   Albus: Exactly. Fate drew the
   Albus: I studied their blood 
   Albus: In the end, even that 
  the Glyph consumed me.
   Shanoa: ...But with your body
  Glyph.
   Shanoa: And now, that soul dw
  [Dominus].
   Albus: By all accounts, [Domi
   Albus: However, the villager'
  me here.
   Shanoa: How can that be?
   Albus: Probably from absorbin
   Albus: You are quite remarkab
   Shanoa: ......
   Shanoa: There is still one th
   Shanoa: Why did you try to ta
  life?
   Albus: ...I doubt you could u
   Albus: Let's just say I knew 
   Albus: Once the ritual began,
   Albus: Everything that happen
   Albus: A path I had to follow
   Shanoa: I still don't underst
   Albus: It's just as well. No 
  heart.
   Albus: But, I do need you to 
   Shanoa: What is it?
   Albus: No matter what happens
   Albus: Its power comes at a g
   Albus: Please, Shanoa... Don'
   Shanoa: I do, Albus.
   Albus: then I've done all I c
   Albus: ...but now, I believe 
   Shanoa: Albus, wait! I have t
   Albus: You'll be fine now. ..
   Shanoa: ...Albus...? Don't go
   Shanoa: ...You gave up your l
   Shanoa: I can't even shed a t
   Shanoa: ...... Why was everyt

   Shanoa runs towards the exit.

   Shanoa: Only one person can a
   Shanoa: ...I won't let Albus'
   Shanoa: I must learn the trut

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Ecclesia [Eccle3]
--------------------------------
Enemies: Barlowe
Items: Barlowe Medal
Wood Chests: None
Green Chests: None
Glyphs: Globus
Villagers: None

Return to Ecclesia and head to
the top of it to talk to
Barlowe.

   Shanoa: It's done, Sir. I've 
   Barlowe: And Albus? did he yi
   Shanoa: ......
   Barlowe: Unfortunate... but i
   Barlowe: He wanted just the s
   too much.
   Barlowe: But still, there is 
   mission through.
   Barlowe: Good Albus would hav
   Barlowe: The time has come-- 

   The screen fades again and re
   ritual altar.

   Barlowe: Take all three piece
   Barlowe: Upon the vessel cast
   Barlowe: And so, the world's 
   Barlowe: Ecclesia's wish... T
   Barlowe: Now go, Shanoa! You 

   Shanoa turns to face Barlowe.

   Shanoa: I will not.
   Barlowe: ...What, second thou
   Shanoa: I promised Albus. I'm
   Barlowe: You promised him? He
   Shanoa: You would know quite 
   Barlowe: Shanoa, what is this
   Shanoa: Albus didn't steal my
   Shanoa: It was you. You used 
   Barlowe: R-Rediculous! I've n
   Shanoa: You also lied to Albu
   Shanoa: You sent him on a foo
  absence.
   Barlowe: ......
   Shanoa: And you neglected to 
   Shanoa: Would you care to exp
   Barlowe: Shanoa, if you ever 
   Barlowe: Needs your life!

   Shanoa backdashes as Barlowe 

   Shanoa: .......!
   Barlowe: You carry such a bur
   Barlowe: To give your life th
   Barlowe: Do you not see how w
   Shanoa: You're mad...
   Barlowe: Now, Albus, that boy
   [Dominus]...
   Barlowe: and I shall put his 
   Barlowe: You see, girl, we do
   Barlowe: My flesh can host th
   Barlowe: And since you're so 
   Barlowe: I'll rip the Glyph s
   Shanoa: I'm not ready to die,
   Barlowe: Poor fool; if I coul
   [DOMINUS] TO ME!!

--------------------------------
Barlowe
--------------------------------
HP: 4000        Exp: 0

Barlowe positions himself
exactly right to use Vol Ascia
on him. You can fire off salvos
of axes at him between his
attacks, then recover your MP
while you dodge. There really
isn't much to avoiding any of
his attacks, except for Globus.
Make sure to absorb this one, or
you'll likely take damage.

If you fail to absorb Globus
(if, for example, Barlowe never
gets a chance to use it), don't
worry too much. This is the only
Glyph in the game that is
actually obtainable from two
different monsters. A monster
near the end of the game known
as the demon lord also casts
this Glyph. Once you finish
Barlowe off, you can collect the
Barlowe Medal from the blue
chest by the door on the left
side of the room if you didn't
get hit.

Attacks: Fire Books- Barlowe
forms 7 books, each of which
forms into a small fireball
   and shoots towards Shanoa. Ru
Electric Books- Barlowe lets two
books go to the top and bottom
of him, which
    begin forming eletric arcs t
    Barlowe rushes forward at a 
    horizontally across the scre
    room and back diagonally the
    being underneath him, then j
    went as he comes back. You'l
    back overhead.
Ice Books- Barlowe drops to the
ground and tosses a book on the
floor. Jump up
  to avoid this attack, which se
  If Shanoa gets hit, she become
Multi Punch- Barlowe shoots
across the screen from alternate
directions and
   punches at Shanoa, sprouting 
   straight up to avoid this att
   likely get hit with each hit 
   bounces you back and forth ac
Globus- Barlowe forms this
Glyph, which creates two purple
electric orbs that
  bounce around the room. The be
  absorb the Glyph as Barlowe cr
  of the way as this attack boun
  striking damage instead of lig
--------------------------------

   Barlowe: Damnit! I was so clo
   Shanoa: I don't understand...
   Shanoa: ...Why would you want
   Barlowe: Because without [Dom
   Shanoa: ...Seal? You told me 
   Barlowe: Of course!
   Barlowe: Ecclesia's mission i
   the resurrection of our lord,
   Shaoa: Mankind wishes for no 
   Barlowe: Dracula's power come
   hearts.
   Barlowe: Ask yourself then, w
   defeat?
   Barlowe: Because our hearts y
   ha!
   Shanoa: ...Just another victi

   The seal begins to release bu

   Barlowe: No, Shanoa... How ca
   Barlowe: ...If you refuse to 

   The clouds of darkness coales

   Barlowe: Oh ho ho.... What's 
   Barlowe: Yes my lord, I see..
   blessing!
   Barlowe: ...Truly providence,

Barlowe crawls towards the seal.

   Shanoa: No... I feel a new po

   Light flashes from the seal.

   Barlowe: ...I will give my li
   Dracula!

   Purple flames wash across the
   the seal are gone.

   Shanoa: It can't be!

   The entire building starts to
   The scene fades to the view o

   Shanoa: ...Now I've lost ever
  my purpose...
   Shanoa: I'm empty. ...there's

End Part 1


Part 2: Storming Dracula's
Castle

--------------------------------
Castle Entrance [Nightmare Gate]
[Castl1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 072 Flea Man, 073
Ghoul, 074 Peeping Eye, 075
Gargoyle,
  076 Blood Skeleton, 077 Black 
Items: 1 random chest, Heart Max
Up, Tasty Meat, White Drops Wood
Chests: Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire,
Silver Ore Green Chests: Gold
Ore, Miser Ring, Onyx, Thief
Ring Glyphs: Arma Felix

Enter Dracula's Castle and run
to the right to find a warp
point. Keep going to the next
screen to view a picture of
Shanoa standing before the
castle, followed by some text.

   Shanoa: Here I am... It's all
   Shanoa: No, that's not true, 
   Shanoa: I'm the only one left
   Shanoa: I am the morning sun,

Run through the first hall,
which is packed with new
enemies. Peeping Eyes drop the
valuable Eye For Decay item,
which allows Shanoa to see stone
that can be broken away to
reveal items or new rooms. Blood
Skeletons can be defeated, but
they always spring back to life
after a little bit. Gargoyles
hide in the background as
statues, then come to life and
swoop down at you.

In the next room, you'll
encounter black panthers, an
enemy that drops the Arma Felix
Glyph. This Glyph turns you into
a black panther, with all their
fighting attacks. Go through the
lower right door to find a save
room. The upper left corner of
the room has a red chest with a
Heart Max Up, and the upper
right corner leads further into
the castle.

The next room is a vertical
passage with several blood
skeletons roaming it. Defeat
them, and also break out the end
of a short ledge near the top to
find a tasty meat. The right
exit at the top leads to a room
with a wall that you can only
get through by use of Paries,
which you still don't have. Go
left instead.

Several more black panthers
stand in your way, but they are
vulnerable to the curse affect
of Acerbatus, so blast them with
that to slow them down. In the
lower left corner of the room is
a treasure chest. Jump up onto
the ledge in the upper right
corner of the room and press
down to reveal a blue chest with
white drops in it.

The next hallway is packed full
of ghouls. These monsters
continuously rise from the
floor, and will poison you if
you touch them. After that,
you'll come to a vertical
passage with a black panther
right above you. This is a good
place to pick up Arma Felix if
you don't have it yet. Hurl a
handful of axes straight up at
the monster and then leave the
room if it didn't drop the
Glyph.

Go to the top and exit through
the right side to come into
another ghoul hall, but this
time there are several peeping
eyes and a blood skeleton as
well. Exit through the door on
the right to enter the next area
of the castle.

--------------------------------
Library [Bloody Tomes] [Libra1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 069 Mad Butcher, 070
White Fomor, 073 Ghoul, 074
Peeping Eye,
  076 Blood Skeleton, 077 Black 
  117 Wallman
Items: HP Max Up, MP Max Up,
Super Potion, Hanged Man Ring,
Cream Puff,
 Wallman Medal
Glyphs: Paries, Melio Confodere,
Refectio, Dextro Custos

Go up a vertical passage with
platforms and pillars made out
of stacks of books (which
conveniently never fall over).
Destroy several peeping eyes and
then head left into a ghoul
hall. Make your way through to
another vertical passage. Here
you'll find a monster called
draculina. Destroy it and head
to the top of the platform.

Open the red chest in the upper
left corner to find an HP Max
Up, then go right. There,
destroy 2 black panthers and
head up. Defeat the Draculina in
this room, and go up the left
side. A tin man charges at you
here, but several hits from
Acerbatus will put it in its
place.

Go up into a room with a white
fomor floating overhead. The
exit directly to your right
leads to a save room, and on the
left side across from it, you'll
find a warp room. A black
panther guards the entrance into
the warp room, and a draculina
in the upper left corner watches
over a red chest with an MP Max
Up. Finally, go through the boss
door in the upper right corner
for a most unusual fight.

--------------------------------
Wallman
--------------------------------
HP: 9999        Exp: 3500

This is perhaps the easiest boss
fight in the entire game.
Wallman is a strange, fat
creature whose only real power
is forming the Glyph Paries.
Paries allows you to walk
through those strange walls
you've been finding with the
green glow on them. To kill
Wallman, you simply have to
absorb the Glyph as he tries to
use it.

Before you do that though, hit
him a couple time to hurt him.
Let him go through the wall, and
find a safe place to avoid the 3
bombs he throws out. Each bomb
will shoot a blast of fire
vertically and horizontally out
from it in all 4 directions. The
trick to this fight is to find
the spot on the screen where you
can stand so that none of the
blasts will hit Shanoa and she
can absorb the Glyph.

There are two blocks hanging in
the air; one is red, the other
blue. The place to stand
revolves around these blocks, as
the fire blasts from the bombs
won't pass through them.
Sometimes it's as simple as
standing on one or directly
underneath it.

When Wallman comes back out, if
you've hurt him enough, he'll
have a super potion in his hand.
Hit him as he holds it up to
make him drop it to the ground,
where you can steal it. He'll
respond by then throwing out his
regular 3 bombs. You can only
steal the super potion once.
After you've obtained it, absorb
the Paries Glyph and this boss
will die instantly. Collect the
Wallman medal (and you really
should get it for this fight),
and go through the wall using
your new Glyph.

Attacks: Bomb- Wallman throws
out 3 bombs. The bombs hang in
the air across the room
 and, once they explode, shoot o
 vertically. Avoid this by crouc
 throws one directly onto the gr
 in the attack.
--------------------------------

Break open the statue on the
other side of the wall to reveal
Melio Confodere (level 3 rapier
Glyph). As soon as you enter the
next room, a tin man charges
you. Acerbatus is again the
weapon of choice against these
menaces, and Shanoa should kneel
as she's firing them to duck
under the gun the tin man will
pull out after it's been hit.
Take care of the draculina (some
well placed axe throws will do
it in), and continue to the
right.

The next room has an
inaccessible spot in the upper
right corner. This will be a
shortcut between this section of
the castle and another later,
but not until Shanoa gains the
ability to fly with the
Volaticus Glyph. For now, head
down through the floor opening
to the next room. Defeat the
peeping eye and black panther
and go right.

If you don't have an eye for
decay (the head equipment that
shows breakable stonework) but
would like one, here's the place
to get it. Using Acerbatus and
Sapiens Fio (if you need it for
the damage boost), enter the
next room and fire off two
rounds to destroy the peeping
eye on the opposite ledge. If it
doesn't drop the item, and it
probably won't, exit the screen
and come back as many times as
necessary.

Once you're ready to move on,
drop down to the bottom of the
passage. You can destroy the two
draculinas if you like, then
head left. You'll come into what
appears to be a dining area.
Walk through the small one-
screen room into a larger one
and head straight left. Defeat
the draculina and bust through
the upper left corner of the
wall (the eye for decay will
show this spot as a series of
glowing green rings around it).
The hidden room has a statue
with the Refectio Glyph behind
it. This handy support Glyph
constantly recovers 1 point of
HP every second. Next to it is a
red chest with a Hanged Man's
Ring in it.

Back in the other room, defeat
the draculina again and then got
of the bottom of the screen to
defeat a trio of mad butchers.
Drop down through the floor exit
to land on a platform above the
ground with 2 tin man's running
back and forth across it. This
is a good spot to use an attack
like Vol Luminatio to defeat
them without taking damage.
After they're both taken care
of, go through the bottom exit
of this room.

Defeat a pair of draculinas in
the next room and keep going
right. This room is full of mad
butchers, which should be easy
enough to handle by now. The
exit is in the lower right
corner, and it leads to a room
with more tin men. As soon as
you get into the room, kneel
down and fire off several
Acerbatus's to cause the tin men
to stop and reveal their guns.
Drop to the ground and kneel
again, firing another round of
Acerbatus shots to finish them
off.

Go to the next room and break
open a spot on the wall above
the mad butcher's head to find a
cream puff. At the bottom of the
passage, go left to find a room
with a Glyph floating in the
air. Absorb this Glyph, Dextro
Custos. It attacks by creating
what appears to be a wolf head,
which then lunges forward at
enemies directly in front of
Shanoa. More importantly, it's 1
of the 3 keys needed to get pass
the Cerberus Statue.

   Shanoa: This Glyph is resonat
  one?

Now backtrack all the way out of
this area to where there was a
right exit (the room with the
easy-to-kill peeping eye). Go
right instead. Go through the
next hall; watch out for the tin
man, and head down another
passage to reveal a door leading
right into another area and an
exit to the left with a warp
room. The door leads to the
Cerberus Statue blocking access
to the top of the castle, so
ignore it for now and take the
warp room back to the beginning
of the castle.

--------------------------------
Backtracking: Castle Entrance
[Castl2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: No new enemies. Items:
1 random chest, HP Max Up,
Valkyrie Greaves Glyphs: None

Run through the rooms from the
warp point all the way right and
then go up the vertical passage
and to the right. Use Paries to
move through the wall and take
the HP Max Up from the red
chest. Run through the next room
into a large room with several
black panthers and a peeping
eye. Take the treasure chest in
the upper right corner, then
exit through the floor in the
bottom right side.

You'll come into another ghoul
hall, but this one has a few
black panthers in it as well. Go
to the right, and take the red
chest containing the Valkyrie
Greaves from its red chest at
the top of the room. The exit is
in the top right corner. You'll
come into a hall with a gargoyle
and a treasure chest. If you
keep going right, you'll come up
against a wall. This is as far
as you can go this way for now,
so head back left through the
ghoul hall and exit the left
side.

Defeat the peeping eyes in the
vertical passage and head down
to the bottom to go through a
door leading to the next area.

--------------------------------
Underground Labyrinth [Flirting
with Shadows] [Under1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 072 Flea man, 081
Polkir, 082 Nova Skeleton, 083
Gashida,
  085 Gurhka Master, 086 Red Sma
Items: 1 random chest, MP Max
Up, Mercury Boots, Blackmore
Medal, Heart Max Up,
 Super Potion
Glyphs: Nitesco, Fidelis Polkir,
Vol Ignis, Lapiste, Vol Culter,
Felicem Fio,
  Rapidus Fio

Drop down through the passage
until you come to a green
skeleton. This is a nova
skeleton, and its only attack is
to form a Glyph that blasts you
with a beam of energy. This
Glyph is Nitesco. This Glyph is
unique in that it deals both
fire and light damage, and you
should definitely absorb it.
Just past it is a familiar
looking enemy, only this one is
blue.

The polkir is a vicious cousin
of the nominon, and it attacks
by shooting forth a beam of
light from its eyes across the
ground. Flames then roar up from
wherever the light touched. Exit
the passage through the bottom
exit, ignoring the left one for
now. Collect a random chest, and
go left to face a pair of gurkha
masters. Go left through the
hall, then up to find two
gashidas. These stone creatures
attack by breathing out a cloud
of gas that petrifies Shanoa. In
the middle of the hall is
another nova skeleton. The only
purpose to walking through this
hall is to fill it in on the
map.

Go back down through the passage
you came in through. A little
ways down, you'll find another
polkir, and a hallway to the
left. This is another hallway
like the one where you picked up
Vol Umbra, except this one is
flame based. Pillars of flame
constantly shoot up from the
floors, down from the ceiling,
or out from the wall. You can
walk across the little foot-high
flames without taking damage, so
this room isn't terribly
difficult to navigate.

Not surprising, at the end of
the hall is the Vol Ignis Glyph.
This Glyph creates pillars of
fire (not like the ones you just
got through). Once Shanoa takes
this Glyph, all the fire in the
room dies out. Head back to the
passage you came out of and
finish going down to the bottom.
Head right and defeat two more
gurhka masters.

Go down to grab an MP Max Up,
then back up into the room you
just came out of. Keep going
right to find two gashidas and
another gurkha master. Defeat
them and go up at the end of the
tunnel to find a small room with
2 polkirs and a red chest. The
chest contains Mercury Boots,
which make Shanoa run (very
slightly) faster.

Head back down and go to the
right a little bit to find
another exit in the floor. The
left exit in this new passage
leads into the hall with the MP
Max Up. Explore it if you want
to add it to your map, but
beware of the gurhka masters and
single polkir. Go back into the
vertical passage and head down
it a ways to find a left exit
that leads to a warp room.

Keep going all the way to the
bottom and to the left to find a
save room, then back up a bit
and to the right to come into
another candle-lit hall. A
single polkir floats around and
the right end leads to a boss
door with a very difficult fight
on the other side.

--------------------------------
Blackmore*
--------------------------------
HP: 5000        Exp: 4300

This is perhaps one of the most
difficult bosses to defeat in
the entire game. When you enter
the room, you'll see a man clad
in purple. After announcing that
he plans to steal your shadow,
his own shadow elongates into a
muscular torso with a canine
head. This boss quickly backs
you into a corner, and there is
no way to get around it. Be
prepared to fight in a very
tight space.

The order of the boss's attacks
are completely random, though it
does sometimes lead with a
downward slash and finish with a
shadow beam attack. Other than
that though, there is no way to
tell what attack its going to
use next until it actually uses
it. Sometimes, it will actually
spew out two groups of shadow
orbs at the same time.

Nitesco is a great Glyph to use
here. This boss is weak to both
fire and light, and Nitesco hits
multiple times with good medium
range. Its Union Glyph is a
giant beam that deals double
damage. Keep yourself backed up
against the wall and your
reflexes sharp to dodge the
boss's attacks and its possible
to walk out of this with a
Blackmore Medal.

Attacks: Shadow Orb- The boss
rears back and fires a set of
orbs out of its mouth that
   arc over the screen to splash
   Quick foot work will keep you
Downward Slash- The boss swipes
its arms downwards. Stay all the
way to the
    left side of the screen to a
Lunge- The boss lunges forward
with one claw. Jump over it to
dodge it. Triple Lunge- The boss
lunges forward like normal, but
then follows with an
   upward swipe of its other han
   jumping over the first attack
   one, then jump again to avoid
Shadow Beam- The boss leans
forward so that its mouth is
level with Shanoa.
   It opens its mouth and fires 
   straight up to get enough air

*Alternate strategy listed for t
--------------------------------

Head right to the next room,
where 2 nova skeletons attempt
to block your path. Head up to
the right exit, through a hall
with some nova skeletons and a
gashida. Go up the next vertical
passage and through an exit on
the left side (ignore the right
one for now).

Use Paries to climb through the
walls, timing it right to avoid
boulders tumbling down. The room
is busted up, preventing a
straight passage through. This
forces Shanoa to leave the
safety of the wall and run to
another portion to continue
climbing.

The first turn is the hardest
one. Position Shanoa so that the
green light turns white and, as
soon as the boulder bounces off
the wall, push out. Run to the
other side and enter the next
wall before a boulder drops on
you. The next time this happens,
there is a damaged section of
the floor for Shanoa to crouch
in, allowing you to take the
pass in two runs instead of one.

Go up through the wall and out
the top to find Lapiste, a Glyph
that attacks by punching out a
fist of stone in front of
Shanoa. This attack does
striking damage, not stone. As
soon as you absorb the Glyph,
the boulders will stop falling.
Go back down and run through the
passage to the right.

Run through the hall, which
houses a pair of polkirs and
some nova skeletons. Head up to
the top of the next passage,
defeating more nova skeletons on
the way, and go right through
the exit. Defeat the red smasher
(which may drop the level 2
knife Glyph, Vol Culter) there
to take a Heart Max Up from a
red chest. Now head all the way
back down to the bottom of the
passage. There is a flea man at
the bottom, which leads to a
room with an exit on the left
and a Paries wall on the right.

Go to the left and open a red
chest for a super potion, then
head back right. Use Paries to
enter the wall and navigate
around the hole to come into a
room with a statue. Break it to
reveal Felicem Fio, a Glyph that
raises LCK temporarily.
 Bust open the wall in the upper
Paries wall. Go through it to
find a second statue. Behind
this one is Rapides Fio, a Glyph
that lets Shanoa run much
quicker than normal. It also
creates a green shield which
deals damage.

This damage is very light, but
if you go running through an
earlier area with a lot of weak
monsters, this shield will blow
them apart and allows Shanoa to
run uninterrupted. Go through
the Paries wall on the other
side to find an exit leading up.
Take it to come into a hall with
2 nova skeletons and a gashida.
Slay them and go to the right to
find an exit to the castle.

Leaving the castle through this
exit reveals 2 new areas on the
world map, the Training Hall and
the Large Cavern. These are both
very difficult optional areas;
strategies for getting through
them can be found in the extras
section. Also, there are two
sections of previously visited
areas to revisit.

--------------------------------
Misty Forest Road [Misty3]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 090 Lizardman Blade
Items: Hierophant Ring, White
Drops Glyphs: Melio Arcus

Enter from the left side and
proceed to the right to the
Paries Wall in the first big
room. You'll come into a hallway
with a statue. Break it to find
Melio Arcus (a level 3 bow
Glyph). Fight your way through 6
lizardman blades to reach a red
chest with a hierophant ring,
which increases experience
gained from fights by 50%, and
break open the wall behind it to
find White Drops. Exit the area
after taking these items.

--------------------------------
Tymeo Mountains [Tymeo3]
--------------------------------
Items: Devil Ring, Moonwalkers

Enter through the right entrance
and use Rapidus Fio to make it
through several rooms to a rope
bridge passage. Use Paries to
enter the wall and head to the
left to pick up a Devil Ring
from a red chest. Go back into
the wall and head up and to the
right to find a second room with
another red chest. This one
contains Moonwalkers, boots that
make you invincible while
backdashing.

If you haven't defeated a yeti
yet, now is the chance. A
Nitesco Union will take it out
before it gets a chance to flee,
thus adding it to your list of
enemies defeated.

--------------------------------
Underground Labyrinth [Under2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 091 Hammer Shaker
Items: White Drops
Glyphs: Melio Macir

Enter Dracula's Castle through
the underground entrance on the
right side. Head left down the
hall, then drop down and use
Paries to pass through the walls
and go up at the other end. Go
left down the hall to another
vertical passage. Head up to the
top of this one, beating your
way through several nova
skeletons.

Head right into another veritcal
passage, where you're
immediately assaultd by a
polkir. Head down to the bottom
of the passage and break open
the left wall to reveal White
Drops. Head up to the top of the
passage and go through the top
exit to find a hammer shaker.
Defeating this monster may cause
it to drop Melio Macir, the
level 3 Hammer Glyph.

Go left through the hall. You'll
come into a room with a large
steel block in front of you that
can be pushed off the ledge
you're standing on. Before you
do that, head down to the bottom
of the room and push the
identical block down there into
a pool of water to raise the
water level up. Then go back to
the top and push down the other
one to raise the water level
even higher.

If you push the first one first,
it drops onto the second one and
breaks open. If you've done it
right, however, the water level
will be high enough to allow
Shanoa to reach the exit in the
upper left corner. Go through
this exit to another hall with a
hammer shaker in it. Head
through this new hall to reach a
vertical passage with 5 polkirs
in it. At the top, go through
the door to find a new area.

--------------------------------
Barracks [Distant Memory]
[Barra1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 080 Tin Man, 082 Nova
Skeleton, 084 Devil, 085, Gurhka
Master,
  086 Red Smasher, 088 Blade Mas
  094 Bugbear
Items: 2 random chest, Green
Drops, 2000 gold bag x3, Heart
Max Up, HP Max Up,
 Green Drops, MP Max Up, Valkyri
Glyphs: Melio Hasta

When you first enter the area,
you'll see a statue with Melio
Hasta (level 3 Lance Glyph) in
it. Go up to find an exit on the
right side. Take this to find a
save point, then head back up
the rest of the way. Destroy the
nova skeletons in your way, and
go right into a large room with
a nova skeleton and several tin
men.

Go to the lower right exit.
You'll come into a hall with a
blade master. Defeat it, then
jump onto the ledge above the
entrance. Press down to reveal a
blue chest containing Green
Drops. Go to the right to find a
hammer shaker, a 2000

gold bag and a treasure chest.

Make your way to the upper left
corner and go through the wood
door to come back out into the
Library. Hit the switch to open
the wall leading into the area,
then head back into the
Barracks. Go up to the next
room, which has several nova
skeletons and a devil. Head
through the upper left exit to
find a red chest with a Heart
Max Up in it. Now go to the
upper right corner and exit the
room.

A hallway has a skeleton hero
and a red smasher in it, as well
as a 2000 gold bag. You'll find
another bag with 2000 gold at
the other end.The next room has
a lizardman blade, and the wall
behind it is breakable. The room
on the other side has a red
chest with an HP Max Up. Go back
to the room with the lizardman
blade in it and kill it again.
Then drop down a ledge to fight
a nova skeleton.

After you finish it off, break
the edge of the ledge you're
standing on to reveal a Green
Drops. Go down through the
bottom exit to find a room with
a couple more lizardman blades.
Work your way to the bottom of
the room and take an MP Max Up
from a red chest in the lower
left corner, then go to the
right side.

Exit through that corner. Defeat
a set of blade masters and loot
a treasure chest on a platform
in the middle of the room. In
the next hall, you'll find
another lizardman blade. The
ledge above the entrance has a
blue chest with a Red Drops in
it if you stand on it and push
down. Run through the next room,
defeating a gurhka master to go
through the right exit.

A vertical passage has a bugbear
in it. The bugbear is a powered
up version of the peeping eye.
Its tail has a ball of
electricity on the end of its
tail, making it more dangerous.
Go down a screen and head left
to find a warp room. There's
another bugbear at the bottom of
the passage. Go right to find a
room with a red chest containing
a Valkyrie Mail.

Go back to the room with the
gurhka master and head up
through a hole in the ceiling in
the upper left corner. The next
room has another gurhka master
and a blade master. At the top
is an imp, an annoying enemy
that, if it gets ahold of
Shanoa, forces her to repeat the
last action she took over and
over again until you can break
free. Break through the wall in
the upper left corner to find a
Moon Ring in a red chest. Go
back through the upper right
side (defeating a lizardman
blade) to enter a new area.

--------------------------------
Mechanical Tower [Styx Passage]
[Mecha1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 085 Gurhka Master, 090
Lizardman Blade, 91 Hammer
Shaker, 092 Rebuild,
  093 Imp, 094 Bugbear, 096 Auto
  098 Gorgon Head
Items: 1 random chest, Valkyrie
Mask, HP Max Up, Heart Cuirass,
Death Ring,
 Death Medal
Glyphs: Vis Fio, Fidelis Medusa,
Sinestro Custos

Go right through the hall to
find a gurhka master and a
hammer shaker, as well as 2
imps. Exit to the right side to
come into a large room with a
lizardman blade. Keep going
right to find a statue with Vis
Fio (a support Glyph that raises
STR temporarily). Head up to the
upper right side of the room and
go through the exit to find a
save room.

Run along the top portion of the
room and go through the left
exit halfway up the wall to come
into a room with a magnetic orb
running up and down on a track.
Use Magnes to grab hold of it,
and then angle yourself to shoot
into the opposite wall when it
reaches the top of the track.
Double jump to gain enough air
time for the next orb to move
down its track to you. Repeat
this with the third one as well.
Be careful not to angle yourself
too high or you'll bounce off
the ceiling spikes.

Run through a single screen room
into a hall with an automaton
ZX27 walking through it. Destroy
it and keep going into the next
room. You'll find 2 lizardman
blade's waiting for you. A
couple good blasts of Acerbatus
will take them both at once. A
bugbear will come flying down
from the top of the screen if
you got too close to the
ceiling.

The entire time you're in this
room, blue and yellow medusa
heads and the occasional gorgon
head. will fly from one side of
the screen to another. The blue
ones are merely annoying, but
the yellow medusa heads and the
stone-colored gorgon heads will
turn Shanoa to stone if you get
hit.

Jump up the ledges on the right
side of the room to reach the
top, then run across the
platform to go out the left
exit. You'll come into another
large room full of flying medusa
heads and magnetic orbs. Start
by going straight up to the top
of the platform using the
magnetic orb hanging over your
head. Jump into the small gap
and then quickly double jump to
reach the magnetic orb there.
Imagine a clock face behind
Shanoa and position her at 5
o'clock, then sling her
diagonally up and to the left.

You'll land on a small ledge
with a red chest containing a
Valkyrie Mask. Drop back down,
keeping to the left to avoid
floor spikes, and use the
magnetic orb just to the left of
where you land to go up to
another ledge, this one
containing the exit into a
vertical passage. If you head
down, you'll find an exit
leading into a hall with 2
automatons and several imps in
it. Going through the door will
take you into the Forsaken
Cloister, which you still can't
get very far into, so ignore
this route for now and head up
instead. Use the magnetic orb
attached to the giant gear to
fling Shanoa to top of the room
(no ceiling spikes this time),
and exit the passage to the
right.

The next room starts with a
narrow corridor. The bottom is
lined with floor spikes; the top
has 3 magnetic orbs. Of course,
medusa heads fly across this
room, as they do in the entire
area. Use Magnes to hop from orb
to orb, then go to the far right
wall and break it open to reveal
an HP Max Up. Grab the magnetic
orb hanging from the platform to
your left, and use it to fling
yourself up to the ledge on the
right. Jump the gap and go left.

You'll find a magnetic orb on a
horizontal track. Grab hold and
fling yourself all the way left
to find a red chest with a Heart
Cuirass. This curious item makes
it so that when you take damage,
you lose hearts instead of HP.
Jump back onto the magnetic orb
and wait for it to approach the
gap between two ledges above
you. Fire yourself upwards and
head right.

You'll come into a large room
with an extraordinary amount of
medusa heads, but nothing else.
Go right and jump up the
platforms to reach the top of
the room, then head back left
through the exit. You'll find a
hall with 3 bugbears in it, and
the lower portion of the left
wall can be broken away to
reveal a hidden room with a red
chest. The chest contains a
powerful (yet dangerous) item
called the Death Ring. When
wearing this, all of Shanoa's
stats gain a huge boost, but
every time you get hit, there is
a very high probability that
you'll instantly die.

Go back through the room with
the medusa heads and into the
room where you went right. Go
left this time and scale the
next vertical passage. It's
another 3 step Magnes jump, but
this time there are no ceiling
spikes to bounce off of, and the
bottom orb is attached to a
spinning gear instead of on a
vertical track. Once you reach
the top, go to the right to find
a nasty monster known as a
rebuild. All of this monster's
attacks throw Shanoa backwards,
and usually when this happens
she'll get thrown out of the
room, reseting the monster's 666
HP.

Go right into a vertical
passage, and keep going right to
find a warp room. Go back into
the vertical passage and use the
magnetic orbs to get to the top
of the passage. The right exit
goes to a save room, and the
left side has a boss door leads
to Dracula's favorite confident,
Death.

--------------------------------
Death
--------------------------------
HP: 4444        Exp: 4444

This boss is weak to light (and
resists dark), but physical
weapons also do almost no damage
to it. Instead, you'll want to
have two sets of Glyphs
equipped. The first set is 2 Vol
Luminatios and Rapidus Fio.
Rapidus Fio is useful not only
for the enhanced speed to dodge
the boss's attacks, but also
because of the shield it creates
while you're moving. This shield
destroys any small sickles you
run into, giving you complete
immunity to the boss's sickle
materialization and sickle wave
attacks as long as you're not
standing still.

The second set of Glyphs is Vol
Luminatio, any weapon Glyph, and
Rapidus Fio. This combo is used
for the Light Slash Union, which
does a lot more damage than a
normal attack. The downside is
that after you use this, Shanoa
can't move for about half a
second. This attack is used more
when you've gotten to the side
of the boss while its doing a
sickle wave of sickle cage
attack and is stationary.

To attack this boss, use Rapidus
Fio to keep running back and
forth across the ground (the
boss rarely descends low enough
for you to run into it). Jump up
at it and fire 2 Vol Luminatios,
then go back the opposite
direction. Keep up these hit and
run tactics, and the boss will
spend a lot of time simply
chasing you around the screen.
If there is a drawback to
Rapidus Fio in this fight,
however, it is that when the
boss uses its sickle cage
attack, only quick reflexes will
keep you from running right into
the side of it.

The boss's circle chop attack is
a hard attack to avoid, but with
Rapidus Fio on, you stand a good
chance of getting out the other
side before it even begins. If
you can't manage that, equipping
moonwalkers to make you
invincible while backdashing
gives you a good window to avoid
the actual strike itself.

Don't try to jump through the
boss's summon souls attack. The
spirits' tails increase in
length with each revolution
through the spiral, meaning that
the gaps never really get that
much bigger. Instead, run as far
off to the side as you can get,
which may sometimes mean running
directly under the boss while
its starting up the attack
because there isn't enough room
on the side your on. Keep
chipping away at this boss, and
eventually it will drop, leaving
you the Death Medal if you
didn't get hit.

Attacks: Sickle Materialization-
Small sickles materialize all
over the room and hurl
      themselves in a straight l
        or destroy them.
Sickle Wave- The boss raises one
hand towards you and spews forth
a blast of
   dozens of sickles. Dodge unde
   to avoid it.
Sickle Cage- 8 large sickles
appear in 2 diagonal lines of 4,
sloping downards,
   around Shanoa. The circles lo
   on the floor between them. Av
   bottom sickle before the atta
Downward Chop- The boss flies
overhead and raises its scythe
up above it. It
   then does a downward slash. D
   so that you're not underneath
Circle Chop- The boss angles its
scythe downwards, then charges
across the
   room. When it reaches you, it
   well-timed backdash can get y
   possible, you're better off r
   boss isn't facing you when it
Summon Spirits- The boss summons
3 red orbs in a triangle around
it. The orbs
    then proceed outward in an e
    out as they go so that they 
    real defense against this at
    away that they disappear bef
    practically impossible to ju
--------------------------------


Go left to find the Glyph
Sinestro Custos floating in the
air in the next room.

   Shanoa: This Glyph resonates 
  third.

Head back down the passage and
go through the room with the
rebuild in it. Drop down the
next vertical passage (watching
for floor spikes), and go right.
You can use double jump to drop
into the gap between the two
ledges and jump onto the lower
ledge without having to wait for
the magnetic orb to make its way
to where you are. Run right and
drop down to the bottom of the
room, then go through the
corridor with the 3 magnetic
orbs to come into the passage
that leads down into the new
area. There are no spikes in
this passage, so drop straight
down and go left.

Defeat the two automatons and
walk through the door to enter
the next area of the castle.

--------------------------------
Forsaken Cloister [Gazing
Towards Heaven] [Forsa1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 082 Nova Skeleton, 087
Cave Troll, 088 Blade Master,
094 Bugbear Items: None Glyphs:
None

The first hall you come into
will contain a nova skeleton and
a blade master. The second one,
left of that, has another blade
master, a cave troll, and
another blade master. Past them,
you'll find a switch with opens
a gate made of two interlocking
wolf heads. Run into the next
room to find a giant Cerberus
statue.

   Shanoa: There are magic energ
   Shanoa: If that statue is Cer
   Shanoa: I just need to figure

This is the spot where you'll
use the 3 Cerberus Glyphs, but
without all 3 of them, you can't
proceed. For now, continue left.
The next hall has another cave
troll in it, followed by a
bugbear. A second cave troll is
at the other end, and then a
single cave troll in the next
room stands between you and a
doorway leading into the library
area.

Walk into the warp room and warp
to the Barracks area. Defeat the
bugbear in the passage and go
up, then go through the two
large rooms to walk from the
Barracks to the Mechanical
Tower. Defeat the gurkha master
and hammer smasher in the bridge
room, then take out the 3
lizardman blades in the next
room to reach the top of the
room to hit the save room if you
need to.

--------------------------------
Mechanical Tower [Mecha2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 086 Red Smasher
Items: 1 random chest
Glyphs: Morbus

Head back out of the save room
and go through the exit just
below it to come into a vertical
passage with a magnetic orb
hanging in the air. Ignore it
and drop down below it. There,
you'll find another one. Below
this one is a set of floor
spikes, so if you're feeling
cautious, use the magnetic orb.
Otherwise, just stay to the left
as you jump down and head out
the left exit.

The next room has several
magnetic orbs for you to sling
yourself off of to bypass the
floor spikes, as well as a new
feature. A magnetic orb attached
to a giant wheel spins around,
meaning that you don't have all
the time in the world to line up
your shot when using these ones.

Go right into a room with an
automaton ZX27 in it. Defeat it
and go over the side of the
ledge to the bottom of the room.
There, you'll fight a red
smasher. After you take it out,
head left into a room with two
boxes, one on the ceiling and
one on the floor. Equip the
lightning Glyph Fulgur, and
strike each box with alternate
shots. Once both of them have
sparked simultaneously, the door
in the background will slide up
to reveal the Morbus Glyph.

Head back through the other room
and go left when you come to
that exit and head down a
vertical passage. You'll find a
treasure chest near the bottom
that may be tempting to try to
grab by using Magnes. Instead,
drop to the ground and double
jump up to the ledge. Now, go
right into a hall with a
lizardman blade, an imp, and a
bugbear.

The next room contains a gurhka
master near the top and a red
smasher at the bottom. Defeat
both and go left. Defeat both
lizardman blades and drop to the
bottom of the screen, where an
imp appears to menace you.
Destroy it (and another
lizardman blade on the other
side of the wall), and use
Magnes to begin climbing up to
the ledge above you.

There is a treasure chest near
the lower right exit. Head into
the next room and take out a
lizardman blade, a bugbear, and
a hammer shaker. Run through a
hall with a few more bugbears in
it and exit the area to find a
new one.

--------------------------------
Arms Depot [Cry in the Night]
[Arms1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 085 Gurkha Master, 086
Red Smasher, 091 Hammer Shaker,
092 Rebuild,
  094 Bugbear, 095 Spectral Swor
 101 King Skeleton, 119 Eligor
Items: 1 random chest, HP Max
Up, Mint Sundae, Eligor Medal
Glyphs: Melio Secare, Melio
Scutum, Melio Culter, Melio
Ascia, Melio Falcis,
  Arma Custos

Go directly left first to come
into a hall with a gurkha master
and a hammer shaker. Defeat both
and continue left into a room
with another hammer shaker. Its
guarding a red chest with an HP
Max Up. After you've taken it,
go back to the first vertical
passage you found.

Head straight down (watch out
for a pair of bugbears), and go
right to find a room with a
spectral sword in it. Use shots
of Acerbatus to blast straight
through all of its many pieces
and take it down. This monster
rarely drops the Melio Secare
Glyph (level 3 sword). Go
through the right exit and kill
the mad snatcher guarding the
treasure chest, then backtrack
back to the passage with the
bugbears.

Go straight left into a hall
with a gurkha master, a red
smasher, and a hammer shaker.
Destroy the statue to reveal the
Melio Culter Glyph (level 3
knife). Go left into the next
hall and prepare to face off
against another rebuild.

The next room has a great
knight, a slow moving creature
that's far too big to dodge
around. Just blast away at it
with a mid range attack like
Fulgur (it's weak to lightning)
or a long range attack like Vol
Luminatio. This monster rarely
drops a Glyph called Melio Ascia
(level 3 axe). Behind it is a
statue with Melio Falcis (level
3 sickle) in it.

Destroy the King Skeleton at the
other end of the hall and keep
going left. You'll come into a
vertical passage with 2 mad
snatchers. At the bottom, the
left exit goes to a warp room,
and the right one leads deeper
into the area. Defeat another
great knight and a king skeleton
in the next hall, then 2
spectral swords in the one after
that. Enter another vertical
passage with 2 more mad
snatchers. Break open the ledge
at the bottom right in front of
the boss door to find a Mint
Sundae, then head left to access
a save room.

--------------------------------
Eligor*
--------------------------------
HP: 3000        Exp: 4300

This boss is a giant mechanized
centaur. He's weak to striking
and lightning damage. When you
come into the room, climb up
onto the back of it to begin the
animation sequence. Eligor will
come to life, revealing a giant
red eyeball in the back of its
head. The creature's tail then
slices forward and sends Shanoa
flying into the far wall. She
hits the floor and runs back
towards Eligor. Note that this
is actually one of this boss's
attacks, but that it doesn't
count as getting hit in the
intro for purposes of medal
winning.

Begin by equipping Vol Macir (or
Melio Macir, if you have it).
Jump up and swat at the red
crystals on the boss's knees.
When you hit the floor, hop up
again and repeat. The boss has
two types of sword attacks at
this point. One is a simple jab
downward into the stone, and is
very easy to avoid. It will only
do this if you're standing close
to it. The other is a slashing
attack that drags through the
stone and is only avoidable by
running up in front of it. The
boss only does this attack if
you're standing near the wall,
and it moves fast, so pay
attention.

After the boss does either of
its sword attacks, it will kneel
down and its hip crossbow will
begin firing in a pattern
totally independent of where
Shanoa is

standing. You can actually kneel
down in the lower right corner
of the room and this attack will
miss every time. It's not hard
to dodge, however, so take this

opportunity instead to get a few
whacks in at the crossbow with
your hammer.

The boss will repeat these two
actions over and over again
until the red orbs in its knees
have taken enough damage to
break and fall out. It will then
rear up on its back two legs.
Run forward to stand between the
boss's four legs and switch to
Vol Ascia (or again, Melio Ascia
if you have it). The boss will
now walk forward across the
room, and you have to move with
him while simultaneously hurling
axes up at the crossbow on the
right side. Globus is another
nice attack to use here too; it
bounces all over in the tight
space and deals a lot of damage.
It does have the drawback of
making it hard to see what's
going on, however.

You must keep the pressure up on
the crossbow. It rotates down to
face you, and will aim and shoot
an arrow that's practically
impossible to dodge without
bumping into something else that
does damage. Every time you hit
it, though, it bounces back
upright a little bit more. As
long as you keep striking the
crossbow, it'll never get a
chance to fire before it breaks.

One thing to watch for here is
when the boss lifts up only one
of its front hooves. It may kick
that hoof back at you, but you
can dodge this by kneeling down.
After you've broken out the
right crossbow, the boss will
then crouch low, then jump
straight into the air. This is
your chance to run out under the
back hooves. Don't take it.

Instead, stay where you are and
focus on the left crossbow. If
you don't take this one out,
when you run under the back
hooves, you'll have a similar
fight, except this crossbow
fires much faster and with very
small gaps. If you destroy it
now, however, you won't have to
deal with it. After you take out
the second crossbow, wait for
the boss to jump again, then run
under the hooves. You may have
to do a slide at the end to
clear them.

Now the boss has a new weapon:
its tail. Much like its sword on
the other end, the tail will
stab down at you. The difference
is that it actually aims instead
of always coming down in the
same place. However, there is a
safe spot where it can't hit
you; if you stand close to the
legs, the tail will hit the
ground behind you. Blast away
with more Vol Macirs or Melio
Macris here.

After you've taken out the orbs,
the boss falls down and its tail
becomes a ramp you can climb. Be
careful not to get hit by the
blade as the tail drops down
into the floor. If you don't
have the crossbow destroyed, it
will turn to aim at you much
like the other one did when you
were under the boss's stomach.

Climb up the backside of the
boss onto its saddle again.
You'll have a few seconds to
take shots at the eye (which is
actually weaker to slashing
damage than striking), then the
boss will rear up suddenly,
pushing backwards with its elbow
and striking Shanoa if she's too
far over on the right side of
its saddle. The key to staying
clear of the boss's attacks at
this point is maneuverability.
As such, Rapidis Fio is a great
support ability.

The boss has several new attacks
at this point, and they all come
without warning, leaving you
only a fraction of a second to
react. It will continue to jab
backwards with its elbow, but
you can dodge this by spending a
lot of time in the air and
getting lucky. Use a forward
jumping motion to attack and
retreat back to the left side of
the saddle.

The boss may also swing its
sword backwards onto the saddle.
You must move to the right side
and kneel down in the little
pocket it leaves or take damage
here. Its final attack is to
cock its tail forward (just like
at the intro to the fight) and
stab at Shanoa. There's no good
way to stay clear of this, but
Rapidus Fio gives you a nice
jumping length, so instead
vacate the saddle and head back
to the floor.

If the boss hits you with its
tail blade, you'll go flying
back to the right side of the
screen and have to repeat the
process of busting out its knee
orbs (they'll only have a few
hundred HP this time), going
under its legs, and back out the
other side. The crossbows do not
regenerate. It's worth noting
that the boss's 3000 HP total
only applies to damage dealt to
its eye, not any other part of
its body.

Most of this boss's attacks are
easy to dodge, but once you've
reached the saddle, it becomes
almost impossible to dodge all
of its attacks. If you manage to
do so (or are simply a high
enough level to overpower it
with massive damage output
before it gets a chance to fight
back), you can claim an Eligor
Medal as your prize.

Attacks: Phase 1 Downward Stab-
The boss stabs down at Shanoa
with its sword. This is an easy
   attack to avoid, as the boss'
   a second before it begins its
Downward Slash- The boss slashes
downward. It will only perform
this attack is
    Shanoa is towards the wall i
   running towards the legs.
Right Crossbow- The boss kneels
down and begins firing bolts off
its hip
    crossbow in a regular patter
    they don't fire quickly. You
    right corner of the room to 

Phase 2 Steps- The boss takes
steps back and forth. You have
to move with it to keep
 Shanoa between its legs.
Forward Leg Kick- The boss lifts
one of its forward legs and
kicks backwards at
    you while you're under its s
Targeting Right Crossbow- This
crossbow constantly swivels to
home in on your
      position when you're under
      continually to spin it bac

Phase 3 Jump- The boss jumps
straight up and slams its hooves
down. This is actually
 more of an opportunity to escap
 in exactly the same place it we
 hooves if you don't move.
Left Crossbow- The boss's back
crossbow fires much more rapidly
and with its
   arrows spaced much close toge
Rear Leg Kick- The boss kicks a
leg backwards when you're behind
it. Dodge by
   running backwards or backdash
Tail Blade Stab- The boss stabs
down with its bladed tail. You
can dodge out of
    the way of this, but its eas
    knee orbs; the blade can onl

Phase 4 Rear- The boss rears
upwards, bending its torso
backwards and smacking into you
 if you're not all the way to th
Elbow- The boss shoots its elbow
backwards at Shanoa. You can
dodge this by
 jumping over it, but it's a ver
 reach all the way to the left e
Reverse Overhead Slash- The boss
brings its sword up over its
head and back
      down, cutting across the s
 kneel down to avoid the blade.
Tail Blade- The boss cocks its
tail and shoots it at Shanoa.
This can be
   dodged by jumping with Rapidi
   You'll have to go right over 
Targeting Left Crossbow- The
back crossbow swivels around to
lock onto you and
      fires arrows when you're s

*Alternate strategy listed for t
--------------------------------

Eligor dies, and its body
becomes a ramp leading up to the
upper right corner of the room,
where you find an exit leading
into a single screen room with
the Glyph Arma Custos floating
in the air.

   Shanoa: It's resonating with 
   Shanoa: Now the question is, 


Head back out into the passage
with the two mad snatchers, then
left through the two halls with
the spectral swords, skeleton
king, and great knight. Use the
warp room to travel to the
Library warp room. Run right
through the door back into the
Forasken Cloister

--------------------------------
Forsaken Cloister [Forsa2]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 028 Winged Guard, 097
Medusa Head Items: Eisbein
Glyphs: None

Go back into the Forsaken
Cloister and run through the
halls, again killing the
monsters there. Acerbatus works
particularly well against the
cave trolls, and Vol Luminatio
will take care of anything else
in there. Run into the room with
the Cerberus Statue and equip
the 3 Glyphs.

Attack once with Dextro and
Sinestro Custos, and merely
having Arma Custos equipped
activates the third head. The
entire statue sinks down into
the ground, revealing a platform
leading up.

   Shanoa: ...It worked.
   Shanoa: The power inside is i
   Shanoa The time has come, Alb

Climb a long tower full of
winged guards and yellow medusa
heads. Near the top, break open
the edge of the platform on the
left side to find an eisbein,
then go up to the top of the
tower. Go left to find a save
room, and right to enter the
final area of the game.

--------------------------------
Final Approach [Dust to Dust]
[Final1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 084 Devil, 088 Blade
Master, 089 Lilith, 090
Lizardman Blade, 093 Imp,
  094 Bugbear, 095 Spectral Swor
  102 Winged Skeleton, 103 Final
Items: 2 random chest, MP Max
Up, Sun Ring, Blue Drops, MP Max
Up, Heart Max Up,
 Judgement Ring, Heart Max Up, G
 Super Potion, MP Max Up
Glyphs: Fidelis Alate, Volaticus

The first room is a large one. A
devil approaches immediately to
fight you, and a lizardman blade
is right behind it. Many imps
fly around the room, making
nuisances of themselves. The
exit is in the upper right
corner, but it is a long,
winding path to get there. The
next room has more imps, 2
lizardman blades at the bottom,
and a bugbear higher up. Go
straight right to find a
treasure chest. Fight a third
lizardman blade at the top of
the room, then go left through
the exit.

The next hall has 2 spectral
swords floating in it. Kill them
(remember: Acerbatus works well
on these monsters) and go left
to come into a room with a blade
master and a portrait of Dracula
in the background. Go left into
the next room, which has 3 cave
trolls visible from the moment
you walk in. Acerbatus will take
these out quickly as well. There
are 2 more at the top of the
room, but ignore them for now
and go left.

The next room has a lilith
standing in it, which Vol
Luminatio will take out quickly.
The next room has the final
knight monster in it, a slow
moving juggernaut with 666 hp.
Keep your distance and pelt it
with more Vol Luminatios to drop
it without giving it a chance to
fight back. There is a second
final knight behind it.

The next room is a huge open
space with an infinite number of
winged skeletons flying through
it. These skeletons drop the
Glyph Fidelis Alate, a summoning
Glyph. In the center of the room
near the floor, you'll find a
Glyph floating in the air. This
is Volaticus, a very powerful
support Glyph that causes a pair
of glowing black wings to sprout
from Shanoa's back, which gives
her full powers of flight.

The lower left corner has a
treasure chest in it, and there
are two more exits out of the
room. Go through the one in the
middle of the ceiling first, but
be prepared to fight 6 bugbears
in the room. After you've
defeated them, open the 4 red
chests in the room containing,
from left to right: Sun Ring,
Blue Drops, MP Max up, and Heart
Max Up. Now go back into the
large open room and take the
exit in the upper left corner.

Run through a long empty hallway
to come to a switch which opens
a series of interlocked wolf
heads. Go left through the door
into the library. Go through a
large room with a devil and a
great knight in it. This side
trip is only necessary if you
want to fill in the entire map,
since it takes you to the large
open room in the library that
you need Volaticus to reach the
exit.

Backtrack through the hall with
2 final knights and the room
with the lilith to the room with
all the cave trolls. Defeat all
5 of them and leave through the
upper right exit of the room.
The next room has a devil in it
and a portrait of Death in the
background. Run through another
long hall with 2 more final
knights in it

The next room has a bugbear
right overhead, and 2 liliths
directly in front of you. An
automaton ZX27 paces back and
forth on a long ledge above you
after you kill the liliths.
There is a devil at the top of
the room right in front of the
exit. The next room has a
bugbear and a blade master on
the left side of the screen, and
the wall on the ledge above the
entrance is breakable. Destroy
it to reveal a Judgement Ring.

Run straight across the bottom
of the room. There is a
lizardman blade and a blade
master in your way, and a
bugbear at the end of the room.
Go left into a room with a red
chest. Open it to find a Heart
Max Up, then go back to the
right. Head up the ledge with
the bugbear on it and defeat the
devil at the top. Watch out, as
there are blade masters on
either side of the next level of
ledges. The ceiling directly
above the gap is breakable, and
reveals a hidden room.

This room has a whole crew of
blade masters in it, as well as
4 red chests containing: Gold
Ore, Diamond, Onyx, and World
Ring, a powerful piece of
equipment that reduces MP
consumption. Go back down into
the room you came out of and go
right to reveal a warp room. Now
head back left and cross the
room again to go out the left
exit.

Cross and empty room into
another, larger one. Use
Volaticus to fully explore this
room. There is nothing at the
top, but for map buffs, its
necessary to move through it to
get 100% of the area. At the
bottom are two red chests that
you must use Paries to obtain.
Enter the wall and go up and
around the squares of unfilled
space to come out the other
side. The red chest on the left
contains a super potion, and its
counterpart on the right has an
MP Max Up.

Go through the exit on the left
side to find a save room and the
final boss door. Now is your
last chance to complete the
optional areas, finish up any
tasks the villagers have left,
try to obtain rare items from
enemies, or plain and simple
buff your levels. When you're
ready, cross it to fight the
Prince of Darkness, Dracula
himself.

   Dracula: Such a lovely maiden
   pleasure?
   Dracula: Tell me your desire,
   my side?
   Shanoa: I am not your benefac
   Dracula: No? then please... T
   Dracula: Surely you've realiz
   Shanoa: I am the blade to ban
  annihilated.
   Shanoa: The time of your dest
   Dracula: Bah ha ha ha ha ha! 
   Dracula: Come to me, child; I


--------------------------------
Dracula*
--------------------------------
HP: 9999        Exp: 0

This is a 2 phase fight. In the
first phase, Dracula teleports
himself via columns of light
back and forth across the room,
which is 2 screens wide. He
doesn't automatically teleport
onto the screen, so you
sometimes have to waste time
running to find him. Neither
does he always teleport to the
left, then the right, then the
left, and so on. He will always
perform his attacks in order of
fireball, dark energy balls,
energy ray, though.

Dracula is weak to Light, and
resists Dark, but Vol Luminatio
is NOT the way to go. Use Vol
Luminatio and a weapon Glyph to
form the Light Slash Union, but
other than that, Melio Ascia is
a much better choice for this
fight. It allows you to avoid
getting hit by Dracula's energy
ray attack (you can only damage
the upper portion of his body;
his torso, head, etc.). It also
can break through his fireball
attack, but Light Slash Unions
work very well here as well.

Never use Volaticus, as it
causes Dracula to perform an
attack that shoots purple fire
up to the ceiling across the
screen and hit you. You can
avoid this by flying overhead as
he's teleporting down, but then
he just teleports again without
giving you a chance to hit him.

After you've dealt enough damage
to him, he'll stop teleporting
and turn sideways to face you.
It looks like he's an actual 3D
animation now, instead of a 2D
sprite. He goes into an entire
new attack pattern with all new
attacks, of course.

Dracula will float across the
air towards you and raise his
leg up, then slash it down in a
powerful kick. This isn't too
hard to dodge, in and of itself.
The problem is that he likes to
use his destruction ray (the
purple rays that fall from the
top of the screen at wherever
you're standing) and then move
in to kick you while you're
still dodging his last attack.
Using Scutum to create a shield
over your head blocks this
attack.

After Dracula backs you into a
corner, he'll disappear for a
brief moment. He will either
reappear in the center of the
room, or a little ways away from
you. When he disappears, double
jump immediately away from the
wall, because if he appears in
front of you, he'll lunge
forward and use his soul steal
attack to drain your HP and any
support Glyph you have active.

If he teleports into the center
of the room, he'll either start
closing in on you to kick you
again, or he'll open his cape
wide and begin one of his
summoning attacks. Kneel down on
the floor about 3 character
lengths away and begin hurling a
constant stream of axes into
him.

If bats come flying out of his
cloak, you're in a prime
position to hurt him. Don't
move; just keep firing. If you
get caught in this stream,
you're almost certainly going to
die, as it hits for around 100
damage about 4-5 times a second.
If you're not kneeling in
exactly the right place, you
might get nicked and only get
hit a few times. If you don't
feel like chancing it, Melio
Scutum will block the attack,
but using it slows down your own
attacks.

Dracula's other summon is a
series of red, translucent
wolves. They disappear if
they're damaged, but not if they
hit you. As long as you're
firing off axes, you'll destroy
the wolves as they appear on the
side you're standing on. They
alternate sides, one coming out
from the left, then another from
the right, then left again, and
so on.

Once you've "beaten" Dracula, he
and Shanoa have a brief exchange
of words.

   Dracula: What nonsense is thi
   tricks!
   Shanoa: My power alone may no
  you, fiend!

Dracula then powers up an
attack. If you don't use
Dominus, he unleashes a globe
across the screen, instantly
killing you with well in excess
of 9000 points of damage. It is
actually possible to dodge this
attack if you use Volaticus to
fly into the upper corner of the
screen, but Dracula never stops
doing the attack after it
begins, so there's still no way
to fight back.

Attacks: Phase 1 Fireball-
Dracula opens his cape and a
stream of fireballs come flying
out. Use
  Melio Scutum to defend yoursel
Dark Energy Balls- Dracula opens
his cape and 4 black balls of
energy shoot out
    in a high-low-high-low patte
     jump over the last 3.
Energy Ray- Dracula snaps his
fingers and sends up many green
lines, which then
   rain down across the screen. 
   this attack.
Cape Slash- Dracula only does
this if you attempt to jump over
him during the
   first phase of the fight.. He
   that reaches to the ceiling, 
Purple Fire- Dracula only does
this if you're using Volaticus.
Purple pillars
   of flame shoot up from the gr
   hit you.

Phase 2 Slashing Kick- Dracula
swings his leg in a kick. This
is easy to dodge; just
     keep out of his range.
Destruction Ray- Dracula sends
up another cloud of lines, but
this time they
    are purple and they fall to 
    back and forth in a tight pa
   comes down, or use Scutum.
Swarm of Bats- Dracula teleports
into the middle of the room and
spreads his
   cape wide, unleashing a swarm
   Stay low near the ground, clo
   to avoid this potentially fat
   this attack.
Summoned Wolves- Dracula summons
red translucent wolves that run
out of his
    cloak and charge back and fo
       with a single hit.
Soul Steal- Dracula teleports
back, then swoops forward and
grabs Shanoa. He
   then proceeds to drain HP fro
   done, he drops you to the gro
   affect you have on after this

*Alternate strategy listed for t
--------------------------------

   Dracula: But this power is...

Shanoa collapses on the ground.

   Shanoa: I'm sorry, Albus.... 
   Dracula: GyeaaaAAARGH!!!

   Dracula breaks apart into lit
   The screen fades to black.

   Shanoa: I've fulfilled my mis
   Shanoa: My life... I feel it.
   Shanoa: ...so quiet... I can'

   ???: Name's Albus. I guess we
   Shanoa: ...what?

   ???: Sir! Name me as the bear
   Shanoa: ...Albus's memories f
   Shanoa: They're the only memo

   ???: What... kind of brother 
   ???: That's...my role.
   Shanoa: Now I see why Albus r
   Shanoa: ...... ...Why am I cr
   Shanoa: This must be some sor
   Albus: This is no dream, Shan
   Shanoa: Is that...Albus!?


   The throne room fades back in


   Shanoa: ...Not a dream. My te
   Albus: Once I realized I was 
  find out what else had been ab
   Albus: It seems your precious
   Shanoa: Albus! I thought you 
   Albus: Since my existance was
  wandered in the darkness insid
  the memories it had taken from
   Albus: As soon as you used th
  away, leaving one glimmer behi
  sacrifice...
   Shanoa: That is so like you, 
   Shanoa: You can't just solve 
   Albus: ...To be fair, I am yo
   Shanoa: But...thank you, Albu
  heart.
   Albus: Shanoa... there's no n
   Shanoa: I've already used [Do
  my life.
   Albus: [Dominus] requires but
   Shanoa: ...You're taking my p
   Shanoa: You've already done s
   Albus: No arguments, Shanoa. 
   Shanoa: No, I...!
   Albus: If you want to repay m
   Shanoa: ...Anything.
   Albus: Smile for me. That wil
   Shanoa: But--
   Albus: Please... Before I fad
   Shanoa: O...Okay...

   The screen fades to a picture
   face, then back to the throne

   Albus: Beautiful. I... I can 

   Sparkles of light rise into t

Shanoa: Albus...? Wait, don't...
   Shanoa: NO! ALBUS!!!

   The room begins to shake and 

The scene shifts to Shanoa
standing outside Dracula's
Castle, watching it disolve and
crumble in the background.

"Unknown to the outside
world, Good had vanquished
Dracula's evil once more,
as all record of Ecclesia
vanished into the mists
of time..."

End

=--------=
+ Extras +
=--------=

Hidden Areas There are 2 hidden
areas available after you find
the back exit in the Undergound
Labryinth in Dracula's Castle.
They're both difficult areas,
but one is hard because it
contains the strongest monsters
in the game, and the other is a
huge mess of traps requiring
perfect timing.

--------------------------------
Large Cavern [Large1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 080 Tin Man, 087 Cave
Troll, 104 Jiang Shi, 105 Demon
Lord,
  106 Double Hammer, 107 Weapon 
Items: 6 random chests Wood
Chests: Diamond, Gold Ore, High
Potion, Onyx Green Chests:
Alexandrite, Minerva Greaves,
Minerva Mail, Minerva Mask
Glyphs: Globus*, Fidelis Mortis
*Demon Lords use this Glyph in c
 obtainable places.

This area is comprised of a
series of linked rooms, each
with a difficult set of enemies
to defeat. To start, make sure
you have Acerbatus, Vol
Luminatio, Globus, Sapiens Fio,
Volaticus, and Refectio.
Refectio isn't actually used
during combat, but in between
rooms, if you've been beat on
heavily, you can regain some HP
with it.

Room 1: Before entering this
room, equip 2 Acerbatus Glyphs
and Sapiens Fio to increase its
damage output. As soon as you
get into the room, drop down to
the floor and fire Acerbatus
twice at the swarm of incoming
tin men. This will cause them
all to stop short of running
into you and open up to reveal
their guns. Fire another
Acerbatus to kill them, then go
left and take out the cave troll
as well. Switch to Vol Luminatio
before you go into the next
room.


Room 2: This room has 2 demon
lords in it. Stay to the right
side of the room as you kill the
first one. Dodge under its
swooping movements; this demon
moves much like all other demons
in this game, only much
stronger. After you destroy it,
head left to find another one.
Destroy this one too, then go
left. This is a break point, a
vertical shaft with a single
treasure chest at the bottom
before the next set of rooms.

Room 3: This room has a fierce
double hammer in it. These
monsters charge across the
ground and perform swinging
kicks or hammer smacks that do a
lot of damage. Have Volaticus on
and 2 Globus Glyphs equipped
when you go in. Move continually
across the top of the screen,
firing Globuses as necessary.
Try to stay as far away from
this monster as you can, as it
can and will use its swinging
kick attack, which raises its
feet high enough into the air to
hit you if you're too close.

Room 4: As soon as you enter the
room, a weapon master will run
up from the right. Use Volaticus
to fly over its head and fire
more blasts of Globus around it.
This monster is actually
slightly easier to beat than the
double hammer, since it tends to
run up towards you, stop, and
attack. You can fly over it,
come down the other side, and
fire the Globus shots point
blank into its back, then fly
back up and go over it again
when it turns around.

The weapon master does have 2
attacks that cause it to jump in
the air to watch out for. The
first is a spinning hammer jump,
where it leaps up in a spin with
its hammer whipping around it in
a big circle. The second is a
gurkha knife throw, where it
leaps up and hurls 2 double-
sided gurkha knives, then
proceeds to hammer spin back to
the ground.

The weapon master also has an
attack where it throws a series
of 3 of its serrated swords at
various angles. If you can find
a safe spot where none of them
will hit you, stay there, as
this monster will usually
continue to use this attack over
and over again, allowing you to
take free shots at it until it's
destroyed.

Room 5: This room is just a
variation of room 3. Instead of
a single double hammer, you'll
fight 2. Try to get them moving
on the same pattern, and it's
basically the same as fighting
jut 1 of them. This is more a
matter of luck than skill, so
don't worry if it doesn't
happen.

Room 6: Like the last room, this
is instead 2 weapon masters.
These monsters do tend to get
into sync a lot more often than
the double hammers, making it
seem like there's only 1 of
them.

Room 7: This room has another
swarm of tin men charging at
you, but they start a lot closer
than they did the first time, so
instead come into the room with
Volaticus already active and
smash them with a swarm of
Globus balls. Then switch to Vol
Luminatio and Sapiens Fio and go
right. A demon lord will appear
in front of you. Destroy that
and switch back to Globus and
Volaticus before going into the
next room.

Room 8: This is one of the most
difficult rooms in the game. It
consists of 1 double hammer and
1 weapon master. These two
enemies have radically different
attack patterns, meaning you
must move very quickly to avoid
getting hit. If you do get hit,
immediately reactivate Volaticus
and get back in the air. The
ground is not a safe place to
be. Concentrate on staying out
of harm's way and let the Globus
balls bounce around the screen
to destroy the monsters.

Room 9: Before you go into this
room, make sure you have
Volaticus set to every Glyph
set. Put 2 Acerbatus Glyphs on
one of them, 2 Melio Arcus
Glyphs on another, and for the
last one, an attack of your
choice and Melio Scutum, the
shield Glyph.

This room is empty when you get
into it, but a coffin will shoot
up from the ground and open to
reveal the vampire Jiang Shi.
This monster has 6500 HP, and
also uses the glyph Fidelis
Mortus to summon 2 miniature
versions of himself that hop
around the bottom of the screen.

Jiang Shi isn't very graceful,
all things considered. His form
of movements consist of hopping
leaps with his arms held out in
front of him. His only attacks
are Fidelis Mortus and an energy
ball made of electricity that
chases you around the screen
until it hits you or you destroy
it.

Keep Volaticus on for the entire
fight, unless you're trying to
absorb the Glyph he creates, in
which case you must deactivate
it and land. Fly overhead and
throw axes at him, or fly low to
the ground and shoot Acerbatus
instead. Acerbatus has the
advantage of destroying the mini
Jiang Shis created by Fidelis
Mortus (though it does take 3
hits). Because nothing stops
this attack, you'll also get a
couple of free shots on Jiang
Shi himself when you do this.

When he summons the lightning
balls, hover overhead and
unleash a barrage of axes for a
lot of quick damage. Then switch
to Melio Scutum and activate the
shield. Deliberately run into
the ball to destroy it. This
ball will chase you around the
screen forever if you leave it
alone, and Jiang Shi doesn't
stop at summoning just one. He
will continue to create up to 4
of them, so take care of them as
they appear. If you get hit by
this (and don't have Emerald
Pins equipped), be prepared to
lose as much as 450 HP.

Room 10: Claim the treasure
chest and the green chest (this
will always be green), then
slide through the gap and go
left into a warp room. Take it
back to the beginning of the
area and leave.

--------------------------------
Training Hall [Train1]
--------------------------------
Enemies: 038 Bone Pillar, 053
Autommaton ZX26, 082 Nova
Skeleton,
  106 Double Hammer
Items: 6 random chests Wood
Chests: Diamond, Gold Ore, High
Potion, Onyx Green Chests:
Alexandrite, Robe Decollete,
Super Potion, Super Tonic
Glyphs: Redire

Before entering the Training
Hall, make sure you've completed
the "A Pleasant Accessory" task
by the villager Laura and bought
a Ruby Pins from the general
store. This item significantly
reduces fire damage, which many
of the areas traps are.
Volaticus does not function in
this area, so its back to the
old-fashioned way of getting
around. Refectio, the Glyph that
recovers 1 HP a second, still
works, however, so if you have
the patience, there's no way
you'll die in this area.

Room 1: Go left into a room that
you can see a treasure chest in,
but which you can't reach. This
area is a loop, and this room is
the last one you'll come into,
entering from the top and going
down. Keep going left and you'll
come into a room with 3 sets of
scythes swinging from the
ceiling. To get past these,
simply make sure they're not
swinging on the same arc and
jump over the bottom one.

Room 2: In the next room, run
left, waiting for the flame
pillar to die down before
running across it. Jump onto the
moving platform, then time it
right so you can just right to
the next one without getting hit
by fire. Jump right again to
another moving platform, this
one taking a square pattern.
Jump up and to the left off that
onto the next one. Make sure you
have Magnes equipped. You'll
probably have to stand on this
platform for several revolutions
of its cycle before you get an
opportunity to jump left past
the flame pillar. Use Magnes to
grab the magnetic orb hanging in
the air and throw yourself
straight up onto the platform.

Room 3: Jump onto the moving
platform immediately and head up
to avoid the two double hammers
charging across the floor at
you. These are among the
strongest monsters in the game;
some of their attacks hit for
upwards of 300 damage. Once you
get to the top, jump over the
ledge (the moving platform will
go right through it) and drop
back on the other side. Kneel
down to avoid the spikes, and
jump up onto the next platform.

You'll see a stack of 3 bone
pillars. Destroy them before you
drop down (Vol Luminatio works
well on them). Now move quickly
to the right and slide through
the gap. Ignore the Nova
Skeleton and jump up onto the
ledge overhead. You may see an
automaton ZX26 below you. Ignore
that as well. If you were fast
enough, you've managed to still
completely avoid the double
hammers. Wait for the moving
platform to come back around
overhead. Jump up onto it and
use it to leap the ledge to
reach the exit.

Room 4: You'll see an exit on
the right side of the screen.
This is a shortcut back to the
beginning of the area, if you're
feeling worn out and don't want
to keep going. You won't get any
of the treasure if you take it
though, so instead get ready to
jump through literal hoops of
fire. Wait for the gap in the
circle of burning skulls and
jump up to the first magnetic
orb in the middle of the hoop.

Angle yourself to shoot up and
to the left, but be careful to
time it just right. If you're
too far back, you can get hit by
the skulls in the hoop your in,
so you have to angle and release
quickly. The gaps will always
line up correctly, so there's no
problem there. Repeat this
process for the next hoop to get
to the third one, then shoot
straight left to reach the ledge
with the exit on it. Note the
spike ledge between the first
and third hoop. This is to
prevent you from jumping
straight up and skipping the
second one.

Room 5: Use the two orbs to go
straight up to a ledge with a
narrow gap on the left side.
Slide through it and use Magnes
to grab onto the orb hanging
there. Shoot left into the wall
hanging from the ceiling, then
use double jump once you start
falling to get close enough to
grab the next orb. Repeat this
for the orb after that, then
launch yourself over the wall to
drop down a chute to the floor.

The next jump is tricky. Wait
for the flame pillar on the
floor to die down, then grab
onto the magnetic orb. Lift
yourself to the top to get a
visual of the next orb, and note
the flame pillar coming out of
the wall right onto it. You have
to throw yourself straight up
(straight up to avoid the flame
pillar just to your right), then
double jump to grab the orb up
there, but you must time it so
that when you grab the orb, the
flame pillar shooting across it
isn't on. Then, simply pull
yourself down, wait for the
flames to clear, and shoot
straight up to reach the exit.

Room 6 This is one of the harder
rooms. Jump onto the moving
platform going straight up and
down and ride it to the one
moving horizontally above it.
You'll have to give it several
revolutions across its track
before the way is clear to jump
to the next one left of it
without getting hit by the flame
pillar. Now comes the hard part.
There is another flame pillar
shooting down from the ceiling
between your and your next jump,
which is a magnetic orb set into
a gear that's halfway into the
wall.

This means the orb is only
visible half the time, and if it
goes into the wall, you'll fall
to the floor. There, you'll find
a flame pillar that shoots
across the length of the floor,
so you'll take damage in
addition to having to start the
room over again. Note that if
you don't go down there, you'll
miss a corner of this room on
the map. If all that weren't bad
enough, once you actually get
onto the gear (keep track of the
orb's position by watching the
straight bars on the gear),
you'll find that the wall has a
set of spikes on it waiting to
drive you into them.

Once you've gotten onto the orb
on the gear, immediately shoot
straight up. You'll find another
magnetic orb hanging in the air
there. This one is much
friendlier, and all you have to
do is jump off it to a ledge
just to the right. 2 flame
pillars shoot down from the
ceiling, with a stationary
platform in between them. Wait
for the flame pillar to turn
off, jump onto the platform, and
wait for the second one to turn
off, then jump onto the ledge.

Now you'll come to another
magnetic orb with 3 flame
pillars lined up next to each
other. They move in a pattern.
The first one goes out, then the
second, then the third. Then,
after a brief pause, the first
one lights up again, then the
second, then the third. When the
second one goes out, position
Shanoa to the left, and when the
third goes out, let go to have
her fly to the right. She'll
land on the ledge with the exit
on it (or possibly go flying
right through it into the next
room).

Room 7 The next room has 2
automaton ZX26s walking on the
floor. They're easy to destroy,
so take them out to get them out
of the way. Now, jump up to the
magnetic orb hanging above a
platform in the air. To the left
and right are more sets of
spikes to keep you from taking a
shortcut. You must fling Shanoa
to the right, but at a gentle
enough angle that she doesn't
smash into the spikes and fall
to the floor. Picture a clock
face behind her, and position
Shanoa to just a little bit
under 9 o'clock. Release the orb
to shoot to the right (it will
look like you're going to hit
the spikes, but you won't).

At the end of the jump, double
jump straight up to grab the
magnetic orb. Shoot yourself
into the ceiling here to get up
to the ledge. You must now jump,
fall a ways, and then double
jump to make it past the small
wall coming down from the
ceiling and land on the next
ledge. Alternatively, you can
use the magnetic orb to fling
Shanoa at the wall and (with the
extra momentum) double jump
then.

Double jump to make it to the
next ledge overhead, and use
Magnes to fling yourself past
the two flame pillars. Use
Magnes again, only this time it
will be 4 flame pillars with
another Magnes to catch on the
opposite side. Jump to the next
ledge to reach the room exit.

Room 8 Jump up onto the first
moving platform. It will take
you up to where a flame pillar
juts out of the wall, but you
can kneel down to avoid it. Time
it right to jump onto the
stationary platform and from
there to the next moving
platform. Again, kneeling down
will let you avoid the flame
pillar at the top of this
platforms revolution. Jump onto
the next stationary platform. No
flames will reach you here, so
take your time before jumping
onto the last platform, because
you can't avoid the flames at
the top of this one.

Time it so that there will be no
flames shooting out when the
platform reaches the top of its
track, then double jump onto the
last stationary platform. Jump
up from there to the right and
exit to the next room.

Room 9 This room consists of
nothing but flame pillars to
dodge. The first one is easy.
Wait until its about to turn
off, then jump. Land just after
it turns off and run forward,
then jump onto the next ledge.
The next flame pillar is a bit
trickier. There are actually two
of them, one that you can see,
and one facing you that you
can't off-screen. Wait until
there are no flames, then run
into the middle where there is a
gap between the two walls.
Double jump straight up to get
enough air time to avoid the
flames, then run forward and
jump onto the next ledge.

The next set is like the last
one, only now the flame pillars
are stacked two high and there
is a magnetic orb to hang onto
instead of a straight jump. You
must time it so that you let go
of the magnetic orb before the
bottom flames go out, but land
afterwards, or you won't make it
to the next ledge before the
fire starts up again.

The last jump is the hardest one
to make, as is appropriate. You
are provided with a magnetic orb
on the left side of a wall,
which has a gap that is
deceivingly small. It looks
large enough to run under, but
it actually isn't, meaning you
must slide instead. To top it
off, there are 3 flame pillars
stacked up this time. The bottom
one shoots through the gap, but
the other two are stopped by the
wall. They move in a pattern of
bottom, middle, top, and go out
in the same order.

This is really all a matter of
timing. The window is incredibly
small, and you may end up
sliding to the other side and
just taking a few hits (the Ruby
Pins will help make sure you
survive them), then jumping up.
If you do it exactly right,
which means dropping off the orb
and falling so close it looks
like you should have taken
damage from the bottom pillar,
you can slide through and jump
up before any of the flames
activate again.

Alternatively, you can use the
magnetic orb to sling yourself
through the gap if you hit it at
just the right angle (with the
arrow pointing almost directly
at the lower left corner of the
blocking wall) and hold right as
you hit the ground, you'll slide
through that way as well. This
gives you a much larger window
to jump up the other side.

Room 10 Here, you'll find
treasure chests. Take the first
two, then use the magnetic orbs
to peek down the drops before
you go down. There are moving
spiked blocks going back and
forth for the rest of the trip,
but dodging them is a simple
matter of waiting until they're
not in the way, then letting
gravity do the work. At the
bottom, you'll find a statue
with the glyph Redire in it.
Continue going down, collecting
treasure chests on your way.

The last drop is the only one
you can't check the position of
the moving spiked block before
dropping, so wish yourself luck
(and make sure you can survive
at least one hit from it), and
let yourself go. Slide through
the gap and fall down to take
the last treasure, which is
always a green chest. Slide
through the gap and head right
to exit the Training Hall.

Villagers

Abram
1. Sage -> Store sells Potion
   and Tonic
2. Chamomile, Rue -> Store sells
   Anti-venom and Uncurse Potion
3. Sage, Mandrake Root -> Store
   sells High Potion, High
   Tonic, and Heart Repair
4. Sage, Merman Meat -> Store
   sells Super Potion

Laura
1. Lapis Lazuli -> Store sells
   Lucky Clover
2. Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire ->
   Store sells Emerald, Ruby,
   and Sapphire Pins and
             Rings
3. Diamond, Onyx -> Store sells
   Diamond and Onyx Pins and
   Rings
4. Alexandrite-> Royal Crown

Eugen
1. 3 iron ore -> 2400 Gold,
   Store sells Iron Plate and
   Iron Leggings
2. 3 silver ore -> 3600 Gold,
   Store sells Silver Plate and
   Silver Leggings
3. 3 gold ore -> 7200 Gold,
   Store sells Gold Plate,
   Platinum Plate,
  Gold Leggings, Plat Leggings

Aeon
1. Salt -> Corn Soup, Store
   sells Corn Soup and
   Minestrone
2. Raw Killer Fish -> Killer
   Fish BBQ, Store sells Ramen
   Noodles and Killer
     Fish BBQ
3. Tasty Meat -> Thick Steak,
   Store sells Ramen and Thick
   Steak

Marcel
1. Cave Troll Picture (photo 1)
   -> 6000 gold
2. Jersey Devil Picture (photo
   2) -> 8000 gold
3. Yeti Picture (photo 3) ->
   12000 Gold

George
1. Horse Hair -> Store sells
   Record 2 and 3
2. Phonograph recording of
   Banshee scream -> Store sells
   Record 4 and 6
3. Black Ink, Eagle Feather ->
   Store sells Record 7 and 8

Serge
1. Find Serge hiding in a barrel
   -> Red Drops
2. Use Fidelis Noctua in front
   of Serge -> Blue Drops
3. Find Serge in the village
   without being able to see ->
   Green Drops

Anna
1. Rescue Tom from Tristis Pass
   -> Black Drops
2. Mouse -> Heart Earrings
3. Chrysoberyl (set into a
   collar by Laura) -> Ribbon

Monica
1. 5 Cotton Threads -> Cotton
   Dress, Store sells Cotton
   Dress and Sequined
     Dress
2. 5 Silk Threads -> Silk Dress,
   Store sells Silk Dress,
   Empire Dress, and
          Corset Dress
3. 5 Cashmere Threads -> Party
   Dress, Store sells Party
   Dress and Wedding Dress

Irina
1. Kill 30 Black Crows -> Mocha
   Eclair
2. Kill 10 Werewolves -> Tart
   Tatin
3. Kill Jiang Shi -> Winged
   Boots

Daniela
1. LightHouse Art -> Garbo Hat
2. Waterfall Art -> Treasure Hat
3. Church Art -> Dousing Hat


Alternate Boss Stategies

Blackmore While Nitesco was
recomended in the walkthrough,
you may opt alternatively to use
Ignis or Vol Ignis. Ignis has
slightly better range than
Nitesco, and though it does less
damage with each hit, it also
hits 3 times for each attack.
And becaue Blackmore is such a
large boss, its harder to miss
than it is to hit with Ignis.

Vol Ignis works well, too.
Simply throw down some pillars
on top of itand then wait for
them to die down. Repeat. It's a
slightly slower way of killing
him, but it does have the
advantage in that you won't run
out of MP doing it. Fire Unions
are also very damaging if you
use them at the right time (try
opening one up on it just as
it's leaning forward to unleash
a beam out of its mouth). The
drawback to fire unions is that
if you're not careful about
timing them, you may find
yourself getting hit because of
the time Shanoa spends standing
in one spot while activating it.

Eligor During the final phase of
this fight, equip 2 Melio Hastas
and Rapidus Fio. Use your speed
and jumping distance boost to
jump right up near the boss's
eye, then let loose a Lance
Union. If you've got the
distance just right, you'll hit
3 times. If not, you'll only get
1 or 2. Then retreat to the back
of the saddle, because the boss
rears up backwards and comes
back down. Jump forward and use
another Lance Union. Repeat this
process until the boss dies.

Dracula Use Volaticus to fly,
and charge straight towards
Dracula as soon as he appears.
He'll use his purple fire
attack, but if you're still
moving towards him when he snaps
his fingers, you'll fly past the
attack as its rising up. Stay at
the same firing level as
Dracula's head and pummel him
with Vol Luminatio. As long as
you keep doing this, he'll never
use any of his other attacks
during the first phase. This is
actually very difficult to
master, but if you can, you'll
quickly drain Dracula's HP.

Once you begin the second half
of the battle, Dracula no longer
uses the purple fire attack, so
you're free to fly around
overhead, easily dodging
everything he throws at you.

=--------=
+ Tables +
=--------=

Enemies
--------------------------------
001
Bat
HP: 1           Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire "A
bloodsucking bat that lurks in
the dark." Locations: Monastery,
Ruvas Forest, Tymeo Mountains,
Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
002
Zombie
HP: 9           Exp: 1
Drop
Rotten Meat         ****
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Light, Stone "A lively animated
corpse, magically brought to
life." Locations: Monastery,
Ruvas Forest, Giant's Dwelling
--------------------------------
003
Skeleton
HP: 12          Exp: 3
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A skeleton
corpse controlled by magic. One
of many." Locations: Ecclesia,
Monastery, Ruvas Forest, Giant's
Dwelling
--------------------------------
004
Ghost
HP: 5           Exp: 3
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Slash, Fire Weak:
Strike "The reanimated ghost of
a horse killed on the
battlefield." Locations:
Monastery
--------------------------------
005
Banshee
HP:3            Exp: 4
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash, Dark
Weak: Light
Locations: Monastery
--------------------------------
006
Bone Scimitar
HP: 17          Exp: 5
Drop
-
-
Secare * Strength: Ice, Dark
Weak: Strike, Fire, Light "A
skeleton warrior. Strangely, it
fights with genuine courage."
Locations: Monastery, Ruvas
Forest
--------------------------------
007
Sea Stinger
HP: 6           Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice Weak: Slash,
Lightning "A carnivorous and
disturbingly agile fish
creature." Locations: Kalidus
Channel
--------------------------------
008
Nominon
HP: 16          Exp: 7
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire "An evil, soul-sucking
spirit that paralyzes its
victims." Locations: Ruvas
Forest, Kalidus Channel
--------------------------------
009
Axe Knight
HP: 23          Exp: 9
Drop
Copper Ore          ****
-
Ascia * Strength: Fire Weak:
Strike, Lightning "A heavily-
armored warrior with an equally
heavy axe." Locations: Ruvas
Forest, Minera Prison Island
--------------------------------
010
Une
HP: 1           Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning, Light Weak:
Slash, Fire "This plant's diet
of blood results in odd
mutations." Locations: Ruvas
Forest, Argila Swamp
--------------------------------
011
Merman
HP: 17          Exp: 8
Drop
Meat                ****
Zircon              ****
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Lightning, Curse, Poison
"This aquatic hunter spots prey
from the water before leaping."
Locations: Kalidus Channel
--------------------------------
012
Necromancer
HP: 22          Exp: 7
Drop
-
-
Fidelis Caries * Strength: Weak:
Stone "Uses black magic to
animate and control corpses."
Locations: Ruvas Forest
--------------------------------
013
Bone Archer
HP: 18          Exp: 5
Drop
-
-
Arcus               *
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "An archer
who attacks with bone and
arrows." Locations: Minera
Prison Island
--------------------------------
014
Spear Guard
HP: 24          Exp: 9
Drop
Copper Ore          ****
-
Hasta * Strength: Weak: Strike,
Lightning, Stone "An armored
warrior wielding a long lance.
Locations: Minera Prison Island
--------------------------------
015
Invisible Man
HP: 70          Exp: 15
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Curse "A magician who gave up
his soul to gain invisibility."
Locations: Minera Prison Island
--------------------------------
016
Gelso
HP: 14          Exp: 4
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Lightning "A rare, water-
dwelling creature." Locations:
Kalidus Channel
--------------------------------
017
Needles
HP: 10          Exp: 2
Drop
Salt                ****
-
-
Strength: Ice Weak: Fire,
Lightning "A hard-shelled sea
urchin. A questionable delicay."
Locations: Kalidus Channel,
Somnus Channel
--------------------------------
018
Demon
HP: 44          Exp: 22
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Slash,
Light "A fell beast of the
underworld." Locations: Minera
Prison Island
--------------------------------
019
Fishhead
HP: 50          Exp: 7
Drop
Salt                ****
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A violent
fish, with a spirit as
fossilized as its body."
Locations: Kalidus Channel,
Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
020
Dark Octopus
HP: 40	          Exp: 18
Drop
Black Ink                 ****
-
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Lightning, Curse "An
octopus creature, tormented by
black magic." Locations: Kalidus
Channel
--------------------------------
021
Killer Fish
HP: 38          Exp: 17
Drop
-
Raw Killer Fish     *****
-
Strength: Ice Weak: Slash,
Lightning, Poison, Curse "A
ferocious fish. Fetches a high
price among epicures."
Locations: Kalidus Channel
--------------------------------
022
Forneus
HP: 43          Exp: 19
Drop
Salt                ***
-
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Lightning "A demonic sea
creature from the oceans of the
underworld." Locations: Kalidus
Channel
--------------------------------
023
The Creature
HP: 260         Exp: 90
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Slash
"A mad scientist created this
wonder of artificial biology."
Locations: Minera Prison Island
--------------------------------
024
Black Crow
HP: 13          Exp: 13
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Curse, Stone "An evil bird with
an acquired taste for human
flesh." Locations: Tymeo
Mountains
--------------------------------
025
Skull Spider
HP: 32          Exp: 20
Drop
Anti-Venom          ***
-
Fidelis Aranea ***** Strength:
Weak:Strike, Fire, Light "A
monsterous spider with a skull-
shaped body." Locations: Kalidus
Channel
--------------------------------
026
Scarecrow
HP: 56          Exp: 26
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Slash,
Fire, Light "Quite a threat, if
he only had a brain." Locations:
Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
027
Sea Demon
HP: 88          Exp: 33
Drop
-
-
Grando * Strength: Ice, Dark
Weak: Lightning, Light "An devil
demon of the sea, skilled in ice
magic." Locations: Kalidus
Channel, Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
028
Winged Guard
HP: 10          Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A skeleton
given wings and made to fly."
Locations: Minera Prison Island,
Tymeo Mountains, Forsaken
Cloister
--------------------------------
029
Nightmare
HP: 44          Exp: 27
Drop
Horse Hair          ***
-
-
Strength: Weak: Strike, Fire,
Light "Those who witness its
coming soon know death."
Locations: Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
030
Rock Knight
HP: 100         Exp: 45
Drop
Iron Ore            ***
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning, Stone "A soldier
armed with stones and a throwing
arm." Locations: Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
031
Fire Demon
HP: 111         Exp: 66
Drop
Crimson Greaves     ****
Crimson Mail        ****
Ignis               *
Strength: Fire, Dark Weak: Ice
Light "This demon is master of
the consuming flames."
Locations: Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
032
Bitterfly
HP: 33          Exp: 29
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Light Weak: Slash,
Ice, Dark "Invisibility is this
creature's cloak, and its
weapon." Locations: Misty Forest
Road
--------------------------------
033
Specter
HP: 34          Exp: 31
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash, Dark
Weak: Light "An eternally
wandering spirit, consumed by
hatred." Locations: Kalidus
Channel, Misty Forest Road
--------------------------------
034
Grave Digger
HP: 150         Exp: 65
Drop
Earl Grey           ****
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Poison,
Curse, Stone "Enjoys his cursed
vocation because he meets new
people." Locations: Misty Forest
Road
--------------------------------
035
Werebat
HP: 99          Exp: 50
Drop
-
-
Arma Chiroptera ** Strength:
Weak: Slash, Light, Curse, Stone
"A female, half-human bat. How
about that." Locations: Misty
Forest Road
--------------------------------
036
Black Fomor
HP: 66          Exp: 49
Drop
Milk                ***
-
Umbra               *
Strength: Dark Weak: Light,
Stone "This monster's tongue
dances with dark incantations."
Locations: Misty Forest Road
--------------------------------
037
Enkidu
HP: 450         Exp: 250
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Slash
"A lonely artificial monster,
its only company a white
dragon." Locations: Misty Forest
Road
--------------------------------
038
Bone Pillar
HP: 200         Exp: 22
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "Created
from bleached dinosaur bones,
fossilized in the clay."
Locations: Skeleton Cave, Tymeo
Mountains, Training Hall
--------------------------------
039
Skeleton Frisky
HP: 62          Exp: 28
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "Leaps
boundlessly in a dark dance of
the doomed." Locations: Skeleton
Cave, Giant's Dwelling
--------------------------------
040
Skeleton Hero
HP: 80          Exp: 50
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A skeletal
savior, foretold since ancient
days." Locations: Skeleton Cave,
Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
041
Dullahan
HP: 88          Exp: 54
Drop
-
-
Vol Confodere ** Strength: Ice,
Dark Weak: Strike, Fire, Light
"This knight doesn't need a head
to hand his enemies theirs."
Locations: Skeleton Cave, Tymeo
Mountains
--------------------------------
042
Skeleton Rex
HP: 184         Exp: 105
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A
fossilized thunder lizard, given
life by an evil will."
Locations: Skeleton Cave
--------------------------------
043
White Dragon
HP: 200         Exp: 150
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "Dinosaur
fossils imbued with an evil
spirit. Locations: Misty Forest
Road, Skeleton Cave, Tristis
Pass
--------------------------------
044
Saint Elmo
HP: 13          Exp: 6
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash, Dark
Weak: Light "An evil spirit
whose power causes shipwrecks."
Locations: Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
045
Lorelai
HP: 88          Exp: 59
Drop
-
Merman Meat	        *****
-
Strength: Ice Weak: Slash,
Lightning, Curse, Stone "A nymph
whose voice and beauty lure
victims to a watery grave.
Locations: Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
046
Edimmu
HP: 110         Exp: 57
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice
Weak: Slash, Lightning
"A snake-like water dweller."
Locations: Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
047
Decarabia
HP: 96          Exp: 63
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash Weak:
Fire, Lightning, Light, Dark "A
five-legged demon servant."
Locations: Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
048
Merman
HP: 80          Exp: 56
Drop
Zircon              ****
-
-
Strength: Ice Weak: Slash,
Lightning, Poison, Curse "An
aquatic humanoid, known for its
violent, territorial ways.
Locations: Somnus Reef
--------------------------------
049
Ladycat
HP: 99          Exp: 63
Drop
Croque Monsieur     ****
Heart Repair        *****
-
Strength: Strike, Light Weak:
Slash, Fire, Poison, Curse,
Stone "A swift half-woman, half-
monster. Toys with her prey."
Locations: Giant's Dwelling
--------------------------------
050
Ectoplasm
HP: 33          Exp: 55
Drop
Uncurse Potion      ****
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash, Dark
Weak: Light "A substance that
oozes from lingering corpses."
Locations: Giant's Dwelling,
Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
051
Curse Diva
HP: 44          Exp: 56
Drop
Choco Scuffle       ****
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash, Ice,
Dark Weak: Light "Curses the
living with its deadly song."
Locations: Giant's Dwelling
--------------------------------
052
Miss Murder
HP: 66          Exp: 66
Drop
-
-
Vol Falcis * Strength: Weak:
Light, Stone "A stealthy and
bloodthirsty killer." Locations:
Miss Murder
--------------------------------
053
Automaton ZX26
HP: 64          Exp: 64
Drop
Iron Ore            *
-
-
Strength: Strike, Slash Weak:
Lightning "An animated puppet
made by a demon scientist. Model
No. 26." Locations: Giant's
Dwelling, Training Hall
--------------------------------
054
Skeleton Beast
HP: 400         Exp: 190
Drop
-
Barbarian Helm      *****
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A skeleton
brute armed with a huge club."
Locations: Skeleton Cave,
Giant's Dwelling, Oblivion Ridge
--------------------------------
055
Balloon
HP: 45          Exp: 40
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Light Weak:
Slash, Lightning "A plant that
scatters poisonous spores."
Locations: Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
056
Arachne
HP: 104          Exp: 77
Drop
Silk Thread          *
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire, Curse, Stone "A female
spider. Her bodily fluids are
highly toxic." Locations:
Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
057
Lizardman
HP: 180         Exp: 119
Drop
Copper Plate        ****
-
Vol Scutum *** Strength: Strike
Weak: Slash, Fire, Stone "A
shield makes its defenses nearly
impenetrable." Locations:
Tristis Pass, Oblivion Ridge
--------------------------------
058
Armored Beast
HP: 255         Exp: 133
Drop
Meat                ****
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire "A ferocious armored beast
with steel claws on hand and
foot." Locations: Tristis Pass,
Oblivion Ridge
--------------------------------
059
Yeti
HP: 166         Exp: 150
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Fire "A mysterious,
cowardly legend said to live in
snowy mountains." Locations:
Tymeo Mountains
--------------------------------
060
Thunder Demon
HP: 144         Exp: 133
Drop
-
-
Fulgur * Strength: Lightning,
Dark Weak: Light "This demon
manifests its fury in thunderous
peals." Locations: Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
061
Owl
HP: 69          Exp:	 52
Drop
-
-
Fidelis Noctua **** Strength:
Weak: Slash, Fire, Ice, Curse,
Stone "The magic that empowers
this owl also spurs it to
violence." Locations: Tristis
Pass
--------------------------------
062
Werewolf
HP: 184         Exp: 120
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire, Poison, Curse "Men cursed
with lycanthropy develop a taste
for blood." Locations: Oblivion
Ridge
--------------------------------
063
Altair
HP: 24          Exp: 14
Drop
Eagle Feather       ****
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Ice, Stone "With broad wings,
this eagle bears its charges
into battle." Locations: Tristis
Pass, Oblivion Ridge
--------------------------------
064
Mandragora
HP: 100         Exp: 58
Drop
-
Mandrake Root       ****
-
Strength: Lightning Light Weak:
Slash, Fire "Those who hear its
scream know madness." Locations:
Argila Swamp
--------------------------------
065
Jersey Devil
HP: 143         Exp: 100
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Ice, Curse, Stone "A flying
monster with a horse's head and
a bat's body." Locations: Argila
Swamp
--------------------------------
066
Owl Knight
HP: 220         Exp: 125
Drop
Silver Ore          ***
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning, Stone "A knight who
sends a trained owl to attack
his enemies." Locations: Argila
Swamp
--------------------------------
067
Chosen Une
HP: 190         Exp: 113
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning, Light Weak:
Slash, Fire, Curse, Stone "A
victim of the parasitic une that
leaves une in his steps."
Locations: Argila Swamp
--------------------------------
068
Stone Rose
HP: 260         Exp: 150
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning, Light Weak:
Slash, Fire 'Once an
insectivore, this plant's tastes
have broadened." Locations:
Oblivion Ridge, Agila Swamp
--------------------------------
069
Mad Butcher
HP: 210         Exp: 113
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Light, Poison, Curse, Stone "A
madman with a mechanized saw.
Enjoys butchery and sculpting."
Locations: Mystery Manor,
Library
--------------------------------
070
White Fomor
HP: 144         Exp: 99
Drop
-
Cashmere Thread **** Vol
Luminatio * Strength: Light
Weak: Dark, Stone "Mocks God
with sacrilegious chanting."
Locations: Mystery Manor,
Library
--------------------------------
071
Evil Force
HP: 244         Exp: 113
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Slash,
Fire, Light "An evil will, given
embodiment through dark karmic
forces." Locations: Minera
Prison Island, Mystery Manor
--------------------------------
072
Flea Man
HP: 30          Exp: 18
Drop
-
Rice Ball           *****
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Poison,
Curse "This sinister little man
leaps like a bloodsucking flea."
Locations: Oblivion Ridge,
Mystery Manor, Castle Entrance,
  Underground Labyrinth
--------------------------------
073
Ghoul
HP: 66          Exp: 6
Drop
Spoiled Milk        ****
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Slash,
Fire, Light, Stone "A spirit
with a steady diet of dead,
rotting flesh." Locations:
Castle Entrance, Library
--------------------------------
074
Peeping Eye
HP: 92          Exp: 66
Drop
-
Eye for Decay       *****
-
Strength: Weak: Light "One of
the castle's watchmen."
Locations: Castle Entrance,
Library
--------------------------------
075
Gargoyle
HP: 130         Exp: 111
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Strike
"A demon turned to stone.
Attacks in groups." Locations:
Castle Entrance
--------------------------------
076
Blood Skeleton
HP: 99          Exp: 0
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "The blood
they absorb regenerates all
wounds." Locations: Castle
Entrance, Library
--------------------------------
077
Black Panther
HP: 168         Exp: 152
Drop
-
-
Arma Felix **** Strength:
Strike, Light Weak: Slash, Fire,
Poison, Curse, Stone "A black,
female panther." Locations:
Castle Entrance, Library
--------------------------------
078
Mimic
HP: 293         Exp: 165
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: "Poses as
treasure to prey on mankind's
greed." Locations: Tristis Pass,
Mystery Manor
--------------------------------
079
Draculina
HP: 266          Exp: 170
Drop
Crepes Suzette       ****
Stephanie            *****
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Slash,
Fire, Light, Stone "This female
vampire feasts on the blood of
intruders." Locations: Library
--------------------------------
080
Tin Man
HP: 256         Exp: 180
Drop
Silver Ore          ****
Gold Ore            *****
-
Strength: Slash Weak: Strike,
Lightning "A robot with no soul,
and thus no fear." Locations:
Minera Prison Island, Library,
Barracks, Large Cavern
--------------------------------
081
Polkir
HP: 155         Exp: 124
Drop
-
-
Fidelis Polkir **** Strength:
Weak: Slash, Fire "Feasts on the
precious memories of its
victims." Locations: Underground
Labyrinth
--------------------------------
082
Nova Skeleton
HP: 248         Exp: 138
Drop
-
-
Nitesco * Strength: Ice, Dark
Weak: Strike, Fire, Light "Holes
were drilled in his head to
implant psionic powers."
Locations: Underground
Labyrinth, Barracks, Forsaken
Cloister, Training Hall
--------------------------------
083
Gashida
HP: 355         Exp: 210
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Strike
"The breath of this living
statue pretrifies human flesh."
Locations: Underground Labyrinth
--------------------------------
084
Devil
HP: 444         Exp: 333
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Fire, Ice, Dark Weak:
Slash, Light "Manipulates ice
and flame while moving
sluggishly." Locations: Library,
Barracks, Final Approach
--------------------------------
085
Gurkha Master
HP: 240         Exp: 200
Drop
Iron Leggings       ****
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning "An armored warrior
with a knife of the same name."
Locations: Underground
Labyrinth, Barracks, Mechanical
Tower, Arms Depot
--------------------------------
086
Red Smasher
HP: 250         Exp: 200
Drop
Iron Plate          ****
-
Vul Culter ****** Strength: Fire
Weak: Strike, Lightning "An
armored warrior outfitted with
twin daggers." Locations:
Underground Labyrinth, Barracks,
Mechanical Tower, Arms Depot
--------------------------------
087
Cave Troll
HP: 310         Exp: 199
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire, Poison, Curse "This beast
extracts cow entrails with its
tongue." Locations: Tymeo
Mountains, Forsaken Cloister,
Large Cavern
--------------------------------
088
Blade Master
HP: 200         Exp: 190
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "Excels at
duels with its dual-wielding
technique." Locations: Barracks,
Forsaken Cloister, Final
Approach
--------------------------------
089
Lilith
HP: 366         Exp: 188
Drop
Pudding             ****
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Lighting,
Curse, Stone "Tempts her victims
by exploiting their most secret
fantasies." Locations: Final
Approach
--------------------------------
090
Lizardman Blade
HP: 375         Exp: 238
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire, Stone "This lizard is
reptilian enough to wield a huge
sword." Locations: Misty Forest
Road, Barracks, Mechanical
Tower, Final Approach
--------------------------------
091
Hammer Shaker
HP: 450         Exp: 260
Drop
Silver Ore          **
-
Melio Macir ***** Strength: Fire
Weak: Strike, Lightning "A
superhuman warrior that swings
his hammer effortlessly."
Locations: Underground
Labyrinth, Barracks, Mechanical
Tower, Arms Depot
--------------------------------
092
Rebuild
HP: 666         Exp: 400
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Slash
"Assembled from the corpses of
many renowned warriors."
Locations: Mechanical Tower,
Arms Depot
--------------------------------
093
Imp
HP: 66          Exp: 44
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Light "A tiny
demon who loves mischief."
Locations: Library, Barracks,
Mechanical Tower, Final Approach
--------------------------------
094
Bugbear
HP: 156         Exp: 134
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Light
"A single-eyed fiend cloaked in
lightning." Locations: Barracks,
Mechanical Tower, Arms Depot,
Forsaken Cloister,
  Final Approach
--------------------------------
095
Spectral Sword
HP: 280         Exp: 240
Drop
-
-
Melio Secare ***** Strength:
Fire Weak: Strike, Lightning
"This blade is as sharp and
deadly as the spirit that
possesses it." Locations: Arms
Depot, Final Approach
--------------------------------
096
Automaton XZ27
HP: 256         Exp: 128
Drop
Silver Ore          *
-
Arma Machina ***** Strength:
Strike, Slash Weak: Lightning "A
nearly-complete mobile robot.
Model No. 27." Locations:
Mechanical Tower, Final
Approach,
--------------------------------
097
Medusa Head
HP: 1           Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash "Medusa's
severed head spawned multitudes
of these pests." Locations:
Mechanical Tower, Forsaken
Cloister
--------------------------------
098
Gorgon Head
HP: 1           Exp: 1
Drop
-
Mirror Cuirass ***** Fidelis
Medusa * Strength: Weak: Slash
"Created from the head of
Medusa. Turns its victims to
stone. Locations: Mechanical
Tower
--------------------------------
099
Mad Snatcher
HP: 444         Exp: 200
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Light, Curse, Stone "Parasite
that clings to, then continually
drains its victims." Locations:
Arms Depot
--------------------------------
100
Great Knight
HP: 600         Exp: 450
Drop
-
Knight Helm **** Melio Ascia
***** Strength: Weak: Strike,
Lightning "One of Castlevania's
elite armored guardians."
Locations: Library, Arms Depot
--------------------------------
101
King Skeleton
HP: 700         Exp: 460
Drop
Barbarian Shoes     ****
Barbarian Belt      *****
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A skeleton
armed with a huge battle axe."
Locations: Arms Depot
--------------------------------
102
Winged Skeleton
HP: 30          Exp: 1
Drop
-
-
Fidelis Alate ***** Strength:
Ice, Dark Weak: Strike, Fire,
Light "An image of death given
wings to soar through the night
sky." Locations: Final Approach
--------------------------------
103
Final Knight
HP: 666         Exp: 573
Drop
Knight Leggings     ****
Knight Cuirass      *****
-
Strength: Fire, Ice Weak:
Strike, Lightning "This elite
warrior sees intruders as its
quarry." Locations: Final
Approach
--------------------------------
104
Jiang Shi
HP: 6500        Exp: 2525
Drop
-
-
Fidelis Mortus * Strength: Dark
Weak: Slash, Fire, Light "This
blood-sucking creature crossed
the sea from the East."
Locations: Large Cavern
--------------------------------
105
Demon Lord
HP: 1333        Exp: 999
Drop
-
-
Globus * Strength: Dark Weak:
Light "A superior demon, more
terrifying than its most
dangerous kin." Locations: Large
Cavern
--------------------------------
106
Double Hammer
HP: 2000        Exp: 1600
Drop
Gold Ore            ***
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning "The only thing more
dangerous than a giant hammer is
two." Locations: Large Cavern,
Training Hall
--------------------------------
107
Weapon Master
HP: 3000        Exp: 2000
Drop
Gold Ore            ***
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning "Uses any manner of
weapon as easily as a part of
its own body." Locations:
Training Hall
--------------------------------
108
Giant Skeleton
HP: 800         Exp: 350
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Ice, Dark Weak:
Strike, Fire, Light "A giant
condemned in ages past."
Locations: Minera Prison Island,
Tristis Pass
--------------------------------
109
Anthroverta
HP: 700         Exp: 300
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike Weak: Slash,
Fire "A giant mutant created to
guard the stronghold."
Locations: Monastery
--------------------------------
110
Brachyura
HP: 1800        Exp: 1000
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning "A giant crab from the
depths of Transylvanian
history." Locations: The
Lighthouse
--------------------------------
111
Maneater
HP: 2500        Exp: 1500
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Slash, Fire,
Light "This monstrous insect
buzzes about inside a giant
skull." Locations: Skeleton Cave
--------------------------------
112
Rusalka
HP: 2800        Exp: 2000
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Strike, Ice Weak:
Slash, Lightning "This aquatic
demon compels the squalls to
obedience." Locations: Somnus
Reef
--------------------------------
113
Goliath
HP: 4200        Exp: 2500
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Lightning Weak: Slash
"The only thing more massive
than he is the weight of his
blasphemies." Locations: Giant's
Dwelling
--------------------------------
114
Gravedorcus
HP: 3600        Exp: 3000
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Weak: Strike, Ice "A
monster that tracks its prey
through vibrations in the
earth." Locations: Oblivion
Ridge
--------------------------------
115
Albus
HP: 4000        Exp: 0
Drop
-
-
Acerbatus * Strength: Weak:
Slash, Dark "Expert in the use
of firearms. His gun is called
"Agartha."" Locations: Mystery
Manor
--------------------------------
116
Barlowe
HP: 4000        Exp: 0
Drop
-
-
Globus * Strength: Dark Weak:
Slash, Light "A pitiable madman,
his body is now Dracula's
vessel." Locations: Ecclesia
--------------------------------
117
Wallman
HP: 9999        Exp: 3500
Drop
-
-
Paries * Strength: Weak: Slash
"Walls are no obstacle for this
bizarre being." Locations:
Library
--------------------------------
178
Blackmore
HP: 5000        Exp: 4300
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Fire, Light
"Sustains himself on the essence
of his victims' souls."
Locations: Underground Labyrinth
--------------------------------
119
Eligor
HP: 3000        Exp: 4300
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Fire Weak: Strike,
Lightning "A giant demon knight
summoned to protect the castle."
Locations: Arms Depot
--------------------------------
120
Death
HP: 4444        Exp: 4444
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Light
"Dracula's confidant. Knows dark
secrets hidden from all others."
Locations: Mechanical Tower
--------------------------------
121
Dracula
HP: 9999        Exp: 0
Drop
-
-
-
Strength: Dark Weak: Light "The
true master of the castle, and
the prince of evil." Locations:
Final Approach
--------------------------------


Glyphs

Attack Glyphs
--------------------------------
Confodere Attack: 6 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 5 Location: Ecclesia
"A rapier glyph.
--------------------------------
Vol Confodere Attack: 11 Damage
Type: Slash MP:10 Location:
Dullahan "A powerful rapier
glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Confodere Attack: 15
Damage Type: Slash MP: 15
Location: Library "Superior
rapier glyph."
--------------------------------
Secare Attack: 8 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 5 Location: Bone
Scimitar "A sword glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Secare Attack: 14 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 10 Location:
Giant's Dwelling "A powerful
sword glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Secare Attack: 20 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 15 Location:
Spectral Sword "Superior sword
glyph."
--------------------------------
Hasta Attack: 9 Damage type:
Slash MP: 5 Location: Spear
Guard "A lance glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Hasta Attack: 16 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 10 Location:
Tristis Pass "A powerful lance
glyph. "
--------------------------------
Melio Hasta Attack: 23 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 15 Location:
Barracks "Superior lance glyph."
--------------------------------
Macir Attack: 10 Damage Type:
Strike MP: 5 Location: Ruvas
Forest "A hammer glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Macir Attack: 18 Damage
Type: Strike MP: 10 Location:
Misty Forest Road "A powerful
hammer glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Macir Attack: 25 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 15 Location:
Hammer Shaker "Superior hammer
glyph."
--------------------------------
Arcus Attack: 6 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 15 Location: Bone
Archer "A bow glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Arcus Attack: 9 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 15 Location: Somnus
Reef "This bow glyph fires
diagonally."
--------------------------------
Melio Arcus Attack: 9 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 25 Location:
Arms Depot "A bow glyph that
targets enemies automatically."
--------------------------------
Ascia Attack: 8 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 15 Location: Axe
Knight "An axe glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Ascia Attack: 12 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 30 Location:
Somnus Reef "A powerful axe
glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Ascia Attack: 16 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 45 Location:
Great Knight "Superior axe
glyph."
--------------------------------
Falcis Attack: 11 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 5 Location: Minera
Prison Island "A sickle glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Falcis Attack: 19 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 10 Location:
Miss Murder "A powerful sickle
glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Falcis Attack: 28 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 15 Location:
Arms Depot "Superior sickle
glyph."
--------------------------------
Culter Attack: 3 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 8 Location: Monastery
"A knife glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Culter Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 16 Location: Red
Smasher "A double knife glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Culter Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 23 Location:
Arms Depot "A triple knife
glyph."
--------------------------------
Scutum Attack: N/A Damage Type:
N/A MP: 5 Location: Kalidus
Channel "A shield glyph."
--------------------------------
Vol Scutum Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 5 Location:
Lizardman "A powerful shield
glyph."
--------------------------------
Melio Scutum Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 5 Location: Arms
Depot "Superior shield glyph."
--------------------------------
Redire Attack: 4 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 10 Location: Training
Hall "A glyph to magnetize
blades for additional effect."
--------------------------------
Cubus Attack: 5 Damage Type:
Stone MP: 20 Location: Monastery
"A glyph that creates stones."
--------------------------------
Torpor Attack: 10 Damage Type:
Ice MP: 20 Location: Wygol
Village "A glyph that
incapacitates opponents."
--------------------------------
Lapiste Attack: 17 Damage Type:
Strike MP: 20 Location:
Underground Labyrinth "Pulverize
enemies with giant fists of
stones."
--------------------------------
Pneuma Attack: 14 Damage Type:
Slash MP: 25 Location: Tymeo
Mountains "This glyph creates
squalls to sweep enemies away."
--------------------------------
Ignis Attack: 9 Damage Type:
Fire MP: 25 Location: Fire Demon
"Call forth burning flames."
--------------------------------
Vol Ignis Attack: 7 Damage Type:
Fire MP: 40 Location:
Underground Labyrinth "Create
pillars of fire."
--------------------------------
Grando Attack: 8 Damage Type:
Ice MP: 25 Location: Sea Demon
"Call forth freezing ice."
--------------------------------
Vol Grando Attack: 27 Damage
Type: Ice MP: 40 Location:
Tristis Pass "Create pillars of
ice."
--------------------------------
Fulgur Attack: 5 Damage Type:
Lightning MP: 25 Location:
Thunder Demon "Summon a ball of
lightning."
--------------------------------
Vol Fulgur Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Lightning MP: 40 Location:
Minera Prison Island "Call forth
shocking electricity."
--------------------------------
Luminatio Attack: 8 Damage Type:
Light MP: 25 Location: The
Lighthouse "Call forth a ball of
light."
--------------------------------
Vol Luminatio Attack: 20 Damage
Type: Light MP: 40 Location:
White Fomor "Call a ball of
light that tracks enemies."
--------------------------------
Umbra Attack: 13 Damage Type:
Dark MP: 25 Location: Black
Fomor "Command the malice of the
dead.."
--------------------------------
Vol Umbra Attack: 23 Damage
Type: Dark MP: 40 Location:
Mystery Manor "Command the
powers of darkness."
--------------------------------
Morbus Attack: 12 Damage Type:
Curse MP: 25 Location:
Mechanical Tower "Command a
forbidden curse."
--------------------------------
Nitesco Attack: 9 Damage Type:
Fire/Light MP: 20 Location: Nova
Skeleton "Concentrate magical
energy into a destructive beam."
--------------------------------
Acerbatus Attack: 22 Damage
Type: Lightning/Dark/Curse MP:
44 Location: Albus "Call forth
the power of spite."
--------------------------------
Globus Attack: 8 Damage Type:
Strike MP: 50 Location: Barlowe,
Demon Lord "Unleash an energy
sphere."
--------------------------------
Dextro Custos Attack: 18 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 16 Location:
Library "Attack with the right
head of Cerberus, guardian of
Hell."
--------------------------------
Sinistro Custos Attack: 18
Damage Type: Slash MP: 16
Location: Mechanical Tower
"Attack with the left head of
Cerberus, guardian of Hell."
--------------------------------
Dominus Hatred Attack: 66 Damage
Type: Dark MP: 66 Location:
Minera Prison Island "One piece
of Dominus: summons a pillar of
light."
--------------------------------
Dominus Anger Attack: 66 Damage
Type: Dark MP: 66 Location:
Giant's Dwelling "One piece of
Dominus: unleashes a cluster of
energy."



Support Glyphs
--------------------------------
Magnes Attack: 10 Damage Type:
Light MP: 5 Location: Monastery
"Create an attractive magnetic
field."
--------------------------------
Paries Attack: N/A Damage Type:
N/A MP: 5 Location: Wallman
"Pass through solid walls in
specific locations."
--------------------------------
Volaticus Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 20 Location: Final
Approach "Conjures a pair of
wings, allowing the power of
flight."
--------------------------------
Rapidus Fio Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 80 Location:
Underground Labyrinth "A glyph
of divine motion that enables
faster movement."
--------------------------------
Vis Fio Attack: N/A Damage Type:
N/A MP: 80 Location: Mechanical
Tower "Temporary increase STR
and the effects of physical
glyphs."
--------------------------------
Fortis Fio Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Kalidus Channel "Temporarily
increase CON and physical
resistance."
--------------------------------
Sapiens Fio Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Oblivion Ridge "Temporarily
increase INT and the effects of
magical glyphs."
--------------------------------
Fides Fio Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location: Tymeo
Mountains "Temporarily increase
MIND and the effects of magic
resistance."
--------------------------------
Felicem Fio Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Underground Labyrinth "Grants
the user a temporary boost of
LUCK."
--------------------------------
Inire Pecunia Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Tristis Pass "Temporarily
increase the amount of money
received from enemies."
--------------------------------
Arma Felix Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location: Black
Panther "Grants cat-like
abilities."
--------------------------------
Arma Chiroptera Attack: N/A
Damage Type: N/A MP: 80
Location: Werebat "Grants bat-
like abilities."
--------------------------------
Arma Machina Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Automaton ZX27 "Grants every
ability of an automaton."
--------------------------------
Refectio Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location:
Library "Increase the rate of
physical regeneration."
--------------------------------
Arma Custos Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 80 Location: Arms
Depot "Grants the mighty power
of Cerberus."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Caries Attack: 2 Damage
Type: Strike MP: 80 Location:
Necromancer "Summons zombies
that fight to the death."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Alate Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 80 Location:
Winged Skeleton "Summons
guardians to glide down from
above."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Polkir Attack: 4 Damage
Type: Fire MP: 80 Location:
Polkir "Summon Polkir to descend
on your enemies."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Noctua Attack: 3 Damage
Type: Slash MP: 80 Location: Owl
"Summons owls to soundlessly
descend."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Medusa Attack: 1 Damage
Type: Stone MP: 80 Location:
Gorgon Head "Summons Medusa
Heads in a strangely familiar
pattern."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Aranea Attack: 2 Damage
Type: Slash/Poison MP: 80
Location: Skull Spider "Summons
skull spiders to skitter about
when needed."
--------------------------------
Fidelis Mortus Attack: 5 Damage
Type: Strike/Curse MP: 80
Location: Jiang Shi "Summons a
lively assortment of the dead."
--------------------------------
Dominus Agony Attack: N/A Damage
Type: N/A MP: 66 Location:
Mystery Manor "One piece of
Dominus: shrouds you in
Dracula's magic."
--------------------------------

=--------=
+ Credit +
=--------=

Credit for 95% of the conents of
this guide goes to me. I wrote
it based on my experiences of
going this game twice, and
almost every strategy written
here was developed and tested by
me. The exception is a few rare
points in boss strategies: for
example, by the time I thought
to use moonwalkers to dodge one
of Death's Attacks, I'd already
beaten him. So, hey, I guess if
anyone wants to confirm that one
for me.

The first person to receive
credit is Darth Nemesis, both
because his maps are awesome and
because I'll admit I ripped my
list of obtainable rare items
for each area straight off of
them. He is persumed to be of
good humor about this. I'll also
give him credit for his
villagers' guide. I was staring
down a third playthrough because
I forgot to start recording
things until I had already done
about 60% of the tasks, so his
guide helped me fill in a lot of
the missing info on mine. Also,
I recomend villagers' guide;
it's much better.

Next: Wartono. This clever
person sent me an email pointing
out various bosses that used
attacks blockable by the Scutum
Glyphs. Some of them weren't
very hard to dodge anyway, and
others I felt that the way I'd
listed worked better (for
example, that you can block
Death's Sickle Wave attack with
Melio Scutum, which is great,
but Rapidus Fio lets you run
right through it and then take
some free shots on the other
side), but the two Scutum blocks
in the Dracula boss section are
straight from Wartono.

A woman (presumably) named Jan
sent me an email with several
nice boss fight tips in it as
well. She pointed out my
continued underestimate of the
summoning Glyphs. I'll readily
admit that I never liked any of
them and didn't use them the
entire game, but Jan pointed out
to me that Fidelis Caries
actually works as a shield, with
the zombies eating up several
attacks. You can also thank her
for the alternate strategies for
beating Eligor and Blackmore
(seriously, her way is so much
easier than the one I described
on the Blackmore fight).

Alternate boss strategies were
also received from a man named
Silvio about using Vol Ignis and
Dominus Agony (which majorly
bumps up your damage output) to
take down Blackmore. This may
work, I don't know. I couldn't
manage to do it before the
damage from Dominus Agony put me
down.

Another alternate boss strategy
came from Printul Noptii. This
is the one where you DO use
Volaticus in the Dracula fight,
and it actually works pretty
well. There is a youtube video
of this, but I'll let you find
that on your own.

A guy named Gin sent me a tip
about the Blue Drops in Tymeo
Mountains, which was duly noted.
I received a few tips about the
second to last room in the
Training Hall about using that
magnetic orb to make it through
the last area. Yeah, it does
seem pretty obvious, and I'll
admit that I tried to do that
too, but I couldn't manage to
make it work, so I went with the
slide. I went back and tried
again after getting the email
and did it quite easily this
time around, though. Thanks for
the tip, guys.

Konami gets honorary credit for
this guide in that without them,
I wouldn't have been able to
write it. Thanks for a great
game, I thoroughly enjoyed it
for the first 30 or so hours,
but now I'm ready to take a
break.

=-----------------=
+ Version History +
=-----------------=

Current Incarnation: Version 1.2

History 1.0- Initial Release
1.1- Spelling and Grammer
checked, fixed some typos that
resulted from editing
 the draft onto notepad, fixed s
 assume came from rewriting cert
1.2- Added alternate boss
strategies section, fleshed out
the credits with the
 names or aliases of several peo
 contributions were, updated con

=---------------------=
+ Contact Information +
=---------------------=

Email: RythDarklore [at]
hotmail.com AIM: XeratosAlrygich

My email addy also double as my
msn messenger. If you've found
something that's not in the
guide (and yes, I'm aware of
several rumors of things I
missed, so I know that it's out
there), feel free to let me
know. I will investigate,
confirm, and then add it to the
appropriate section, with your
name (real or otherwise) added
to the credits.

Also, I'm not releasing this FAQ
anywhere but GameFAQs. If you
were planning on asking me to
allow you to host this on your
site, please don't. If someone
sees this FAQ posted anywhere
but GameFAQs, please feel free
to send me an email.

=------------=
+ Copyrights +
=------------=

All trademarks and copyrights
contained in this document are
owned by their respective
trademark and copyright holders.

Contents of the guide Copyright
2008 David Sherman.
