================================

    Dragon Quest V : Hand of the
    Spoiler-free Walkthrough
   Version 1.3 | 4 March 2009
     Author: The Unbeliever
     Email: harbingerhound[at]gm

================================

About this guide: The aim of
this guide is to provide simple
and hopefully precise
instructions on how to progress
the story and find the way
through the various caves and
other monster-infested areas. As
the Dragon Quest series often
relies upon talking to a single
NPC to find your way, it can
often be quite tricky.

This guide will not tell you
where each individual medicinal
herb is, nor will it tell you
which urns to break. It will not
tell you which armour to buy. It
will not give you strategies for
the many bosses. There will be
other guides to help you in
those areas.

Regarding directions: All
reference to directions are
based upon the camera being
centered (L+R).

================================



Table of Contents

I. Childhood I.i The Boat I.ii
Whealbrook I.iii Roundbeck,
Uptaten Towers I.iv Whealbrook,
Faerie Lea I.v Coburg, Hideout

II. Drifter II.i Crocodilopolis
II.ii Heaven's Above Abbey,
Fortuna II.iii Whealbrook II.iv
Coburg II.v Abovitall Tower,
Coburg II,vi Hay, Western Cave
II.vii Zoomingale II.viii
Mostroferrato II.ix Circle of
Fire II.x Circle of Water II.xi
Marriage and the Ship II.xii The
Road to Gotha II.xiii Gotha,
Riteof Passage II.xiv The Tower
in the Mountains

III. Legendary Hero III.i Lofty
Peak III.ii Zenithian Tower
III.iii Lake Cave III.iv
Zenithia, Neverglade III.v
Faerie Lea, Faerie Palace III.vi
Zenithia, Dragon Tower III.vii
The Ultimate Key III.viii
Crocodilopolis III.ix Nadiria

IV.      Post-Game

v.       Version History

VI.      Copyright Information





I.       Childhood

I.i      The Boat

After the opening scenes,
including choosing a name for
your main character, you'll be
on a boat voyage. Head out of
your cabin and talk to the crew.
Make sure to talk to the Captain
and the men below deck. When you
come back up, the boat will be
docking.
================================
Boat not docking? That's anti-
piracy coding. Don't ask people
how to fix it.
================================
Go get your father, Pankraz,
then talk to him on the deck.
Say yes twice to disembark in
Littlehaven. Leave here and
encounter some enemies to get
Pankraz to take you home.

I.ii     Whealbrook

When free to explore, head to
the cave in the northwest of
town. In the cave, head for the
stairs in the northwest. Now go
west, south, south-west and down
more stairs. Go up and push the
rock off the trapped man. Now
you can go back home and get
some sleep. In the morning
Pankraz will take you to the
next town.

I.iii Roundbeck, Uptaten Towers

Leave the Inn with Bianca and go
talk to the kids tormenting the
large cat near the entrance to
town. Head back to the Inn and
talk to Pankraz to go to sleep.
At night, leave town and make
your way northwest.

When at the Uptaten Towers, the
front door will be locked, so go
around to the rear and you'll
find a ladder leading to an
opening. Just go down the
stairs, then out the left door.
Check the left grave to find
Bianca. Now go through the left
door, talk to the ghost and then
down the stairs. Go right, down
the stairs, south then down more
stairs.

Follow and talk to the Count's
ghost, then go back inside and
downstairs. Keep following the
path, going downstairs when you
must. In the kitchen, the right
urn contains the torch. Go back
up to the room with the Count,
then upstairs. Select 'use' to
light the torch.

Go confront the monster sitting
on the throne. Say yes to
initiate a battle. Now go right
and upstairs (go left to the
inn, which will take you
outside. The Count has opened
the front door now, so you'll be
back where you were quickly).
Follow the path, going upstairs
when required. Once back on the
dark floor, use the torch again
and head for the throne room.
Follow the monster outside and
talk to him for the first boss
battle. Once defeated, forgive
him and head back to Roundbeck.

In the morning, pick a name for
the sabercat and then talk to
Pankraz to leave.

I.iv     Whealbrook, Faerie Lea

Go talk to the mysterious man in
front of the church and show him
the golden orb. Now go to the
bar located in the inn's
basement. Talk to the
transparent girl and then go to
your home's basement.

Once in Faerie Lea, agree to
help the faeries and head
downstairs and out to the world
map. Go west to find a cave.

Simply follow the path around
and learn about Dwight and the
Lots about Locks book. Keep
going along the path, going down
at the intersection. Downstairs,
go up, right and down the
stairs. Now head south-east and
take the upper stairs to find
the book about locks. Exit the
cave and head north to find the
Ice Palace.

Once inside the Ice Palace,
you'll fall to B1. B1 solution:
Up, left, up, right, up, right,
up. 1F solution: Down, down,
left, down, right, up, right. 2F
solution: Left, down, left,
down, left, up, left, down,
right, up. There will be two
battles, but afterwards you can
take the Herald of Spring from
the right chest and take it back
to Treacle.

Once you return home, you can
find Pankraz in the church, then
he'll take you to your next
location.

I.v      Coburg, Hideout

Once free to explore, talk to
everyone in the castle then go
back to talk to the King. Now go
downstairs and to the right to
find Pankraz. After talking to
him, go talk to Prince Harry.
Follow his instructions then
return and examine his chair to
find a secret staircase. After
the short scene, go out the door
to the right. Now go back to
tell Pankraz what has happened.
Follow him out of the town. Head
east to find the bandits'
hideout.

Inside, go up and follow the
path to the right, up and over
the arching stairs. Walk around
the back of the building, the
path continues down through a
tunnel. continue on and up
through the doorway. Now go
left, down the stairs and out,
following the path to find
Pankraz. Step on the switch and
go up through the doorway. Hop
on the raft and follow the
stream around and up to find the
prison cells. After the scene,
ride the raft back almost to
where you found it and land at
the patch with two torches that
frame a door leading to the
right. Go through and head down
for a scene.






II.      Drifter

II.i Crocodilopolis Once back in
control, head right and go up
the stairs. Find Harry and talk
to him. Now go left and down the
small stairs, then talk to the
soldier. Go back up and you'll
be taken to the slaves' cell. In
the cell, talk to everyone and
go down towards the door. Head
up and out, then down the big
stairs to see another scene.
Help Harry fight the
slavemasters, then in the prison
cell talk to Harry twice and a
scene will play out.

II.ii Heaven's Above Abbey,
Fortuna When you wake up, leave
your room and talk to Harry.
After the scene, go down to exit
the abbey. Talk to Harry again,
saying yes when necessary. Once
out on the world map once more,
head to the north to find
Fortuna.

Walk around on the world map
until nightfall, then enter
Fortuna. Head for the north-west
corner, taking the path behind
the bank. In the corner's
building you can buy a wagon,
then you can go see Monty in the
south-west corner to find out
about monster taming. Once
you're ready, head out of
Fortuna and go north over the
bridge, then go to the north-
west to reach Whealbrook.

II.iii   Whealbrook

Head for the cave again, this
time on the eastern side of the
river. Talk to the old man and
hop on the raft, then proceed
into the cave. Sail up to the
stairs then go down. At the fork
on B2, keep going left to find
more stairs. Follow the path
around and then go up the
stairs. Here, each of the blocks
you step on will drop down once
you're back downstairs so just
step on them all. Downstairs
again, pick up the Night Light
in the left chest, then go down
the stairs to the right. Head
left, down, right, down and then
down more stairs. Open the chest
to find Pankraz' note, then take
the Zenithian sword. Leave the
cave and Whealbrook, then head
south-west to Roundbeck.

Talk to the old woman in the
back of the inn and then stay
the night to see an event. It's
time to head back to Coburg now,
so head east and talk to the
guard at the tunnel to gain
access, then make your way
north.

II.iv    Coburg

Go around to the right of the
castle to find the raft. Hop on
it and sail to the drawbridge,
then up under it. Go up and step
on the button, then through the
door that opens. Follow the path
around. Downstairs, take the
first turn up and talk to the
old man and the Queen. Keep
going down, then upstairs. Once
up here, the button will open a
shortcut back outside but keep
going upstairs to emerge in the
courtyard.

Go through the left door and
make your way up to the throne
room to speak to the King. Once
he gives you the key, go
downstairs, to the right and
search in Harry's old room for
the hidden stairs. Go through
the blue door and step into the
portal.

You'll need to go back north to
the Abbey now. Once there, talk
to the nun at the organ to get
Maria to come along with you.
Now go south past the portal to
find Abovitall Tower.

II.v     Abovitall Tower, Coburg

1F: Go up to the doors and Maria
will open them for you. Now head
towards the north-east corner
and go up the stairs. 2F: Simply
go left and down the narrow
path, then up the stairs. 3F:
Walk around the large gap on the
left side, there's a small gap
in the wall that leads to the
stairs. 4F: Follow the path. 5F:
This is why they call it a leap
of faith. Take the left side of
the walkway to cross over to
Ra's Mirror. Now you can drop
down and return to Coburg via
the portal.

Once back in Coburg, go inside
through the side door next to
the raft and head up to the
royal chambers above the throne
room. Stand in front of the
Queen on the left and use the
Mirror to reveal her true form
and initiate a boss battle.

Afterwards, you'll be told ships
are travelling to Littlehaven
again. This is the small dock
area from the start of the game,
so go south from Whealbrook to
get there. Board the ship to
arrive in Lodestar Harbour.

Go to the bar to save a farmer
from some thugs, then agree to
help with his village's monster
problem. As he tells you, Hay is
south from here.

II,vi    Hay, Western Cave

During the night you can catch a
glimpse of the monster, during
the day you can go to the large
house on the far right to learn
where it comes from. Head west
to find the monster's cave.

1F: Down, right, down and lower
right. B1: Go down, then follow
the path looping from right to
left. B2: Ensure Bianca's ribbon
is in your possession and not in
your bag, then go up to confront
the beast. Use the ribbon in the
battle.

Now go back to Hay and speak to
Bailiff Bails for the other half
of your pay. You can now head
back towards Lodestar Harbour,
then go west to find the next
town, Zoomingale.

II.vii   Zoomingale

The goal here is to enter the
house with the cloud of purple
smoke coming from it. Do so by
going up the stairs next to the
inn, then left and around the
back of the item shop. Keep
going right and down the stairs,
then left and down through the
tunnel to come out next to the
house's door. Inside, talk to
the professor and agree to help
him.

Go back out to the world map,
and go west up the stairs, over
the bridge and down again.
You'll find the lunar Zoombloom
a little to the south-west of
you, but only at night so use
the Night Light if you must.
Examine the glowing spot and
take it back to the professor.
Talk to him twice and you'll
learn the Zoom spell. Open the
menu to cast it, heading for
Coburg.

Back in Coburg, talk to the King
to learn about the Zenithian
shield. Zoom back to Zoomingale
and make your way south.

II.viii  Mostroferrato

The cave that leads to
Mostroferrato is a simple one,
just go down and left to reach
the exit. Mostroferrato is just
over the bridge to the west.

Once in the town itself, go to
the large mansion on the far
left side of town. Talk to the
people in the lobby, then there
will be a scene. You now know
what you must do to get the
shield.

Leave town, then cross the
bridges in the south and follow
the sandy trail until the
mountain range ends and you can
go north to find the lava caves.

II.ix    Circle of Fire

1F: Go left past the two bridges
and Crispin, then follow the
path around. At the fork, take
the lower path and continue down
the stairs. B1: Go up, right,
down, right, straight up then
down the stairs. B2: Take the
third path branching off the
main walkway. This leads to a
fork, each with stairs going
down. The lower path leads to a
healing circle, the top leads to
the Circle of Fire, though
before you can pick it up there
will be a boss battle.

Return to Rodrigo Briscoletti
and he'll let you take his ship
to find the other ring. Sail
north and get off at the lock.
Head to the north-east to enter
Stockenbarrel.

II.x     Circle of Water

In Stockenbarrel, head for the
northern house and approach the
man on the bed. This will
initiate a scene. In the
morning, talk to Whitey again,
then talk to Bianca when you're
ready to go. Once back on the
ship, she will disengage the
lock and you can sail north-east
up a river to enter the
waterfall cave.

This cave is a lot simpler than
the lava cave. Head up and
follow the path to find stairs
to go down. In the area with the
masked man, go up and follow the
path along the upper wall until
just after Bianca talks to you,
then go down and left to find
more stairs. Follow this path
until you reach the bottom of
the waterfall, and go into the
cave just behind where the water
hits the ground to find the
Circle of Water. Return to
Mostroferrato.

II.xi    Marriage and the Ship

Go see Rodrigo again. In the
night, talk to both Bianca in
the guest villa and Rodrigo,
then return to the inn, telling
the innkeeper you can sleep
again. In the morning it will be
time for you to choose your
bride. Magic Nera | Bianca |
Debora Strength Once you've
decided, you'll need to return
to Stockenbarrel to pick up the
veil from the item shop. By the
time you get back, it will be
time for the wedding.

Note: If you chose Bianca,
you'll need to ensure that the
main character has the veil, not
the bag. Take it to Bianca in
the villa.

After the long wedding scene, go
see Rodrigo to acquire the
Zenithian shield and access to a
ship at Lodestar Harbour. If you
chose either Nera or Debora,
you'll be asked to check the
colour of a jar in a shrine to
the north-west. Do so, then talk
to Rodrigo again to proceed.
Once you've set sail, head for
the southern desert, then
disembark and make your way to
the south-west to find
Helmunaptra. In the castle, head
downstairs to find the Queen in
her garden. She will take you to
the Hero's Grave. Afterwards,
speak to the Queen again to
learn about Gotha, far to the
east.

Sail to the eastern continent,
and when you disembark you
should be near the Knot Welcome
Inne. Just north of this is the
mountain pass that leads to
Gotha.

II.xii   The Road to Gotha

Make your way over the three
bridges, then go left, up the
ramp, left, up and right. You
should be able to enter the cave
now.

1F: Go left then up to the
stairs. 2F: Go down, then up the
ramp, right under the bridge and
up the northern ramp. Now go
south over the two bridges and
you'll emerge in Battenberg.

After the scene and when you're
ready to depart, cross the
bridge to the right and enter
the next cave, which is quite a
bit trickier to navigate.

* Follow the path heading downst
* Go to the right, past the fat 
* Back in the cave, go left and 
* Inside, go straight up and dow
* Make your way clockwise around
* Go down to get outside, then g
* Go right and up the stairs fou
  the right and a chest containi
  right of the chest.
* You will now be in the middle 
  enter the cave again. Go north
  ground, go south and you'll be

II.xiii  Gotha, Riteof Passage

Before heading inside the
castle, go around the right side
and enter the small house to
trigger a long scene. Once
you're in control again, go
downstairs and the Prince will
tell you what to do next. In the
morning, leave the castle and go
east and then north to find
Riteof Passage.

1F: Once inside, you'll need to
enter the door with the Gotha
insignia lit up in front of it
and step on the blue switch
until the two bird statues face
one another. Do this two times
and you can proceed. B1: Head up
and left to come to a dirt strip
with a boulder and a blue
switch. Push the boulder so that
it's behind the switch, then
activate it. When the water is
gone, head up and downstairs.
Step on the left switch and go
down the next set of stairs. B3:
Step on either switch above the
stairs, then go right and up and
step on the upper switch. Go
back and to the left and up this
time, and step on either switch.
Now you can proceed up the
center walkway to get the Royal
Insignia. On the way back down
the walkway there will be a boss
fight. Afterwards, you can
return to Gotha. Talk to the
Prince for a long scene.

After the party, go up to your
room and examine the bed. After
the meeting, go to the
chancellor's room (north-east
from your current location) and
open the cupboard to get a pair
of Talaria. Go outside and use
them. Head north from the church
to find your next destination,
the Tower in the mountains.

II.xiv The Tower in the
Mountains

The left door leads to a healing
circle, but it's the middle door
you need to go through. Once
inside, head upstairs. 2F: Go
down, battle, then upstairs. 3F:
Make your way through the spikes
to the stairs on the left. 4F:
Go across the bridge, then to
the left and up to the stairs.
5F: Go around to the left, then
upstairs. 6F: Go out the door
directly below the stairs,
across the bridge outside then
up to the stairs. 7F: Carefully
make your way past the dragon
statues, then go upstairs. 8F:
Push three boulders down the
hole to the left, then jump
after them. 7F: Push the
boulders to the left and place
them one by one in front of the
dragon statues on the left side.
The last one doesn't need a
boulder as there is one on the
right. Head upstairs. 8F: Just
go upstairs twice. 10F: Pull the
lever, then step on the yellow
warp. Pull the second lever and
warp back then go downstairs.
9F: Go out the south-east door
and across the bridge, then up
the stairs. 10F: Talk to the
chancellor, then go upstairs.
11F: Fight the two mini-bosses
to open the way downstairs. 10F:
Here you'll find your wife and
the boss. In the first few
rounds, there's not a lot you
can do. After the event, you're
able to fight as usual. After
the battle there'll be another
long scene.






III.     The Legendary Hero

III.i    Lofty Peak

Once you're back in control and
have finished preparing in
Gotha, head back to Helmunaptra
to acquire the Zenithian helm.
Return to Gotha, and the ship
will now be north of the castle.
Sail to the north-east, between
the mountains to come out in the
ocean. Head south-east, around
the tip of the eastern continent
and then follow its coastline
north. You'll soon come to a
cave the ship can enter. It's
fairly long and loops around a
bit, but you can't get lost.
Near the end you should go south
to exit, instead of north to
find locked doors. On the world
map again, sail down to find
Lofty Peak.

Head to the top of Lofty Peak
during the day to talk to the
Elders and learn about the three
worlds and your mother. Now just
outside the Elders' building, go
down the stairs to the right to
find a chest with the Magic Key.
Now keep going around to find an
archway, through which you will
find the Flying Carpet.

Note: You can now attempt
section III.vii - The Ultimate
Key if you wish.

Leave the Lofty Peak valley, and
then use the Flying Carpet. Fly
to the center of the world map,
and on the southern half you'll
find the Zenithian Tower.

III.ii   Zenithian Tower

* Go up either set of stairs, bo
* Head up the lower right stairs
* Go inside, downstairs, then th
  stairs. Climb the ladder.
* Inside, both the south-east an
  in the door and up the stairs.

Zoom to Gotha and sail the ship
out to the ocean and then
directly north-east. Land and
walk north-east to the lake with
a cave up in the mountains. Use
the Magma Staff to gain access.

III.iii  Lake Cave

* Go downstairs. The little trac
  carts. Go left and hop in the 
* Go down and right, switch the 
* Change the lower switch, go up
* Head up and flip the switch. R
* Hop in the lower cart, then ge
  cart for a long ride.
* Go to the left to find a heali
  ride the cart. Go downstairs.
* Go up and pull the lower switc
  now, then go down to talk to t
  and then go north.
* Walk up and flip all three swi
  lowest switch, then ride the c
* Flip the lower right and upper
  an S aimed at the seesaw track
  again to end up in the middle 
  ride once more to get sent ove
* Ride the cart above you, then 
  boosted by the train. After a 
  Zenithia.

III.iv   Zenithia, Neverglade

Keep heading north until you
come to the throne room. Search
the ground behind the throne to
find the hidden stairs. Climb
down the ladder and then head to
the right. After the scene, talk
to Dr Agon for another scene.
Zoom to Mostroferrato.

Fly the magic carpet east over
the poison swamp, then north-
east and land in the sandy area.
Make your way on foot down over
the bridge and down to the odd
patch of forest, the Neverglade.
Ensure you have either your son
or daughter with you before you
enter.

Inside, go right, then to the
right of the pond, then up. Talk
to the invisible faerie by the
fire and you'll be taken to
Faerie Lea again.

III.v Faerie Lea, Faerie Palace

Once you're back in Faerie Lea,
go talk to Treacle to receive
the Faerie Horn. Return to the
Zenithian Tower in the central
continent, and go north to the
lake. Ride the raft out to the
lily pad and use the Faerie
Horn. Enter the Faerie Palace.

Inside, go up and speak with
Queen Caramel. Afterwards, head
up the stairs to the north. Go
down to the lower left and make
sure that you're holding the
gold bauble. Examine the picture
on the wall.

Go talk to Pankraz, then to the
boy standing outside the church.
Leave town afterwards. Zoom back
to Zenithia and talk to Dr Agon
for a scene.

III.vi   Zenithia, Dragon Tower

Head down and out the double
doors, down the stairs then in
the door to the left. Inside, go
through the room with a couple
at a table and talk to the old
man to learn where to go next.
Examine the drawers for a
Grappling Hook. Return to the
room below the throne and step
on the switch to fly the castle.
Head for the island in the
south-west, then land on the
sand and enter the tower.

Make your way to the top of the
tower, rotating the camera when
needed. At the top, use the
grappling hook to get inside.
Make your way down to the ground
floor. You can pull the lever to
open the door and make returning
easier if you like, then head
downstairs.

B1: Follow the path and go down
the stairs. B2: Go south past
one set of stairs to find
another. Go down these. B3: Go
to the right and up the stairs.
B2: Head north to find a mini-
boss guarding a chest containing
the dragon's left eye. Return to
the staircase in the middle of
four flames. Go west to some
stairs, go down and then back up
them. Now go north and down the
stairs at the end of the path.
B3: Go north for another boss
guarding a chest, this time
containing the right eye.

Head back to the ground floor,
then climb up two landings and
examine the green loop to
grapple down to the statue's
head. Insert the eyes and jump
down. Climb up to the first
landing and enter the statue's
mouth. Inside, head downstairs
and use the loop to grapple down
to a room containing the Dragon
Orb. Return to Zenithia's throne
room and talk to Dr Agon for a
scene. You will receive the
Zenithian tintinnabulum.

III.vii  The Ultimate Key

Return to Mostroferrato and talk
to Rodrigo. Go check the jar in
the shrine to the north-west,
then return to Mostroferrato.
Enter the tower next to the town
and there will be a scene
followed by a boss battle. Once
you win, you will acquire the
ultimate key. You can now open
any door.

III.viii Crocodilopolis

When ready to continue, use the
tintinnabulum in a clear space
on the world map and fly toward
the middle of the world map. You
will find the temple you had to
escape from at the start of the
second part of the game and land
there automatically.

Firstly, enter the building on
the right to find the Zenithian
armour. Now go up the steps
outside and into the temple
itself. Talk to the guards, then
to the slaves. Talk to the
guards again to battle, then
head up the steps and to the
north. Talk to the woman in
green for a boss battle.
Afterwards, examine the ground
below where the boss stood to
find some stairs.

* Downstairs, follow the path do
* Go up the steps, right and dow
* Go up, right and down the ladd
  ladder and through the left do
* Go down the steps to the left,
  ladder, then through the doorw
* Go down and right, then down t
  through the doorway.
* Go right, then down the ladder

Afterwards, you'll receive the
Circle of Life. Make your way
back up to the top and there
will be a scene.

III.ix   Nadiria

When you're ready to depart
(making sure to add your family
to the party if you wish - talk
to the Bunny Girl in Gotha's bar
to rearrange human party
members), Zoom to Lofty Peak.
Sail straight up, into and
through the cave to find a door
that the ultimate key unlocks.
Inside, stand before the statues
and use the three circles (Fire,
Water and Life) to open a portal
to Nadiria.

Head across the bridge to the
east to find the town of
Precaria. From here, go south
and then east to follow the edge
of the island north to a second
bridge. Head for the large
mountain on this island for the
final area of the game.

1F: Keep heading up. Do the same
for 2F. 3F: Go down, left and up
to the stairs. 4F: Simply go
down to the stairs. 5F: Head
down and out of the cave, then
go left, up and right over a
small bridge, then left over the
next bridge and into the cave.
Go left and up to the stairs.
Head left for a battle, a scene
and then a boss fight.

After the scene, go down the
ramp and stairs to the left and
into the cave next to them.
Inside, step on the sliding
panels to the right and you'll
be taken downstairs. Step on the
panels to the right, then on the
panel directly above the chest.
Now step to the right and walk
all the way down. Step on the
lowest panel to be able to pick
up the aspersorium and the Sun
Crown.

Leave the sliding panel room and
go down to a second cave
entrance. Inside go stand in
front of the lava and use the
aspersorium, then go downstairs.

On this floor, standing on the
grates will cause them to
collapse and you will fall to
the floor below. Go down and to
the left to the three grates
together. Stand on the bottom
one to drop down, then go up the
stairs. Now head all the way up
to find the stairs.

Go to the north-west then east
and in through the door. You
will need to solve a sliding
puzzle now. The solution is
lower left, middle left, upper
left and center. Now head all
the way up to the room with a
chest on a pedestal. When you
examine it you will have to
fight some monsters.

When you are ready, head up
through the new opening to find
the Grandmaster...

Once the credits finish rolling,
you will have the opportunity to
save. Do so, and when you reload
you will be able to access the
bonus dungeon.






IV.      Post-Game

To access the bonus dungeon,
zoom to Mt. Zugzwang and walk
directly south into the swamp.

B1: Go up, then head north-west
to find a cell door. GO down,
then west over the walkway. Now
make your way down, left and up
while avoiding trapdoors to find
stairs.

B2: Go left, up, left at the
fork, up, right, down, right,
down and right to find stairs.

B3: Go down, right and down the
stairs.

B4: Follow the path around, then
go left at the fork and down the
stairs.

B5: Head up to find Estark, the
bonus boss. Defeat him to unlock
the final T'n'T board - which is
found by going up and right at
the start of this cave.






Version History

1.3 - 4 Mar 09 : Finished guide.

1.2 - 27 Feb 09 : Finished up to
      the Grandmaster.
 26 Feb 09 : Finished up to half
    regarding Harry's return to 

1.1 - 25 Feb 09 : Finished up to
      halfway through Dragon
      Tower.

1.0 - 24 Feb 09 : Finished up to
      marriage.
   22 Feb 09 : Started guide.

Thanks to Nick Irvine for
pointing out an error regarding
directions, and Ryan Morton for
highlighting the need to explain
how to rearrange human party
members.

Copyright information

This may be not be reproduced
under any circumstances except
for personal, private use. It
may not be placed on any web
site or otherwise distributed
publicly without advance written
permission. Use of this guide on
any other web site or as a part
of any public display is
strictly prohibited, and a
violation of copyright.

Copyright 2009, The Unbeliever
(Richard Hughes)