  Dragon Quest Monsters:Joker
        FAQ/Walkthrough
          Verison 1.0
           by arline6
    email:arlinekirkpatrick@yaho
================================

Table of Contents
-----------------

1. Introduction  [W.01]
2. Legal Disclaimer  [W.02]
3. Verisons Update   [W.03]
3a. FAQ [W.03a]
4. Controls   [W.04]
5. Characters  [W.05]
6. Uncharted Islands [W.06]
7. Spells or Ability [W.08]
8. Seeds [W.09]
9. Battle Arena [W1.0]
10. Unlockables  [W1.1]
13. Beginner's Monster Scout
    Proficiency Test [W1.2]
14. Advanced Monster Scout
    Proficiency Test [W1.3]
15. Tips [W1.4]
16. Story [W1.5]
17. Walkthrough [W2.0]
    Go to Domus Isle [W2.1]
    Enter the Monster Scout Chal
    Take the Scout's Pledge on I
    Visit the Scout's Stone [W2.
    Attend the opening ceremony 
    Register at Monster Scout HQ
    Explore new islands [W2.7]
    Explore the Northern cave [W
  Xeroph Shrine [W2.8.1]
    Explore new shrines [W2.9]
  Palaish Shrine [W3.0]
  Temple of the Sun [W3.1]
    Challenge Commissioner Dr.Sn
    Go to Commissioner's Office 
    Explore remain shrines [W3.4
  Temple of the Moon [W3.4.1]
  Fert Shrine [W3.5]
    Head to Baden's Belfry at MS
    Prepare for the finals [W3.7
    Find the Commissioner [W3.8]
  CELL HQ [W3.9]
  Tartarus [W4.0]
    Go to the Commissioner's Off
    Visit the Scout's Stone [W4.
18. Credits
19. Copyright

Ctrl+F to search any chapters in
this walkthrough.

================================

Introduction [W.01]
------------

Welcome and thanks for reading
my walkthrough. This is my first
walkthrough. This is a
straightforward walkthrough
based on my second time playing
this game. I hope my walkthrough
helps you through the main story
of the game.

================================

Legal Disclaimer [W.02]
----------------

This walkthrough and all the
contents belongs to me, Zelos71,
ChiChi, and MrFighto. You can
only use my walkthrough for your
personal use. But DON'T GO TELL
ANYONE ITS YOURS!! I worked
several days playing and writing
at the same time. The only
website I'll allowed to host my
walkthrough: GameFAQs,
Neoseeker, SuperCheats.

================================

Version Updates [W.03]
---------------

V.01 - Wrote walkthrough up to
Xeroph Shrine.
 Begins to write Explore new shr
V.02 - Finish Explore new
shrines to Head for Baden's
 Belfry at MSO HQ. Begin writing
v.03 - Revise walkthrough by
adding islands' names and
monster
 locations.
v.04 - Add answers to Beginner's
and Advanced Monster Scout
 Proficiency Test. Add Unlockabl
v.05 - Complete walkthrough all
done. Add Title, Table of
Contents,
  Treasure Chests, and seeds.
v.06 - Add Introduction, Legal
Disclaimer, Controls,
Characters,
 and story. Add Square Enix to c
v.07 - Add MrFighto to credits.
v.08 - Add Neoseeker.com to
Legal Disclaimer. Add FAQ. v.09
- Add SuperCheats.com to Legal
Disclaimer. v.09.1 - Add Trode
to unlockables. v.10 - fix the
mistake

================================

FAQ [W.03a]
---

Q. Where to find King Slime? A.
At Infant Isle, temple on top
mountain during daytime.
   Sometimes you see 3 slimes. J
   rope at the cave.

Q. Where to find moon (lunar)
tablet? A. Read [W3.4.1] for
directions.

Q. Does it matter to win or lose
against the Commissioner? A. No.
Because it just practice for the
finals.

================================

Controls [W.04]
--------

Control Pad - Move character,
Navigate menus

L or R Buttons - Rotate
viewpoint left or right, Cycle
      through menu windows

X Button - Show main menu and
commands

A Button - Select menu item,
investigate, talk, open doors,
  climb up or down the ladder wi

B Button - Cancel menus, Reset
camera viewpoint.

Select - Sort items, weapons,
skills, and monsters while
  viewing certain lists.

Controls obtained from DQMJ
Instruction Booklet

================================

Characters [W.05]
----------

THE HERO (THAT'S YOU)
---------------------
A true loner with a don't-mess-
with-me glint in his eyes, this
young Monster Scout Challenge
hopeful has a style and fashion
all of his own. The scout ring
that gleams on his finger is
proof of his status as a monster
scout, but does this wild card
have what it takes to come out
on top? You are Warden's son.

THE INCARNUS
------------
A monster that takes the form of
a wolf pup, with armor
protecting its head and body. It
is a magical creature like no
other, for it speaks the
language of humans fleuntly and
belongs to no known family. The
mysterious Incarnus will join
you on your adventure - but will
the beast prove to be friend or
foe?

WARDEN TRUMP
------------
The disciplinarian leader of
CELL, a shadowy organization
whose existence is unknown to
the majority of Grean Bays'
inhabitants. His uncompromising
approach to his work instills
both fear and respect to his
subordinates. He is your father.

Solitaire
---------
A young woman of unknown
background who is also competing
in the Monster Scout Challenge.
From your first meeting, it is
clear that the two of you are
set upon a collision course...
She is actually Ginny Rummy,
daughter of Madame Rummy.

Dr.Snap
-------
The Commissioner of the Monster
Scout Organisation, and the man
in charge of the Monster Scout
Challenge. A renowned doctor and
scientist, he is credited with
inventing the scout ring. A man
obsessed with all things
monster-related, his real
motives for holding the
challenge are still unclear.

Characters obtained from DQMJ
Instruction Booklet

================================

Uncharted Islands [W.06]
-----------------

There are four uncharted
islands. They are only appear
when you travel between islands.

Uncharted Island 1
------------------

Monster Location
================

Slime             Rank F Slime
Dracky            Rank F Demon
Stump Chump       Rank F Zombie

Uncharted Island 2
------------------

Monster Location
================

Slime             Rank F Slime
She-Slime         Rank E Slime
Bethemonth Slime  Rank D Slime

Uncharted Island 3
------------------

Monster Location
================

Dracky            Rank F Demon
Great Dracky      Rank C Demon

Uncharted Island 4
------------------

Monster Location
================

Argon Lizard Rank F Dragon Frou-
Fry Rank F Dragon Great Argon
Lizard Rank B Dragon (respawn)
Frou-Frou Rank B Dragon (only
one, respawn)

================================

Spells or Ability [W.08]
-----------------

There four different spells to
get you out of trouble in the
game. To those spells you must
defeat the shrine boss at each
shrine.

Xeroph Shrine
-------------

Golem How to Zoom Teleports you
the last scoutpost you visited.
(Only works outside.)

Palaish Shrine
--------------

Moosifer The Joy of Evac
Teleports you out of towers,
caves, and dungeons.

Celeste Shrine
--------------

Great Dragon Whistling for
Dummies Calls nearby monsters
with a cheerful whistles.


Fert Shrine
-----------

Demon-At-Arms The Art of
Vanishing Hides your presence
form monsters.

================================
Seeds [W.09]
-----

During the game at night you see
glowing lights and sometimes in
the red chests are seeds that
help your monsters on your team.
Each seed have different effect.

Seed Title            Effect
----------            ------

Seed of skill - Permanently
increases the skill points of a
    single ally

Seed of life - Permanently
increases the maximum HP of a
    single ally

Seed of magic - Permanently
increases the maximum MP of a
    single ally

Seed of strength - Permanently
increases the attack power of a
    single ally

Seed of defence - Permanently
increases the defence of a
single
    ally

Seed of agility - Permanently
increases the agility of a
single
    ally

Seed of wisdom - Permanently
increases the wisdom of a single
    ally

================================

Battle Arena at Xeroph Isle
[W1.0]
---------------------------

There is a tent in the crater at
Xeroph Isle. You battle in three
rounds and can repeat any rank.

Start at:

Rank E (easy)
Rank D
Rank C
Rank B (moderate)
Rank A
Rank S
End at: Rank X (hard)

================================

Unlockables [W1.1]
-----------

Commissioner Prizes How to
Unlock

Metal King Slime Obtain 100
skills Metal Kaiser Slime Obtain
150 skills Leopold Obtain ALL
skills Liquid Metal Slime Obtain
100 monsters Grandpa Slime
Obtain 200 monsters Empyrea
Obtain ALL monsters Robbin' Hood
Complete both monster and
     skill libraries,speak
         monster (man).
Trode Complete both monster and
     skill libraries, speak
         skill (woman).

(Thank to Gamespot for this
knowledge)

================================

Beginner's Monster Scout
Proficiency Test [W1.2]
--------------------------------

Answers to Beginner's Monster
Scout Proficiency Test:

1. Slime Knight (breed)
2. Spitnik (scout)
3. Stump chump (scout at night)
4. Any dragon of dragon family
   (scout or breed)
5. Any Rank E monster (scout or
   breed)
6. Living Statue (breed)
7. Dingaling (Rank C and
   Material Family)/(scout at
   Fert Isle at night)
8. Jumping Jackel (breed)
9. King Slime (scout at Infant
   Isle)
10. Any Rank A monster (breed)

() means how to get monsters for
each questions.

================================

Advanced Monster Scout
Proficiency Test [W1.3]
--------------------------------

Answers;

1. Slime Knight (breed)
2. Spitnik (scout)
3. Green Dragon (if you still
   have one during the main
   story)
    /(breed)
4. Great Argon Lizard (scout
   uncharted islands)
       /(scout Fert Isle)
5. Anchorman (breed)
6. Living Statue (breed)
7. Cannibox (scout at Palaish
   Isle Shrine)/(breed)
8. Torture Soul (breed)
9. Malroth (breed)
10. Species you chose at the
    start (Platypunk/Dracky/
    Mischievous Mole)/(scout on
    or nighttime)

(Thanks to MrFighto for the
answers)

================================
Tips [W1.4]
----

1. Save often at scoutpost.
2. Once you beaten the boss at
   the shrine, learn the spells.
3. Take a break to relax your
   fingers.
4. Start leveling up your
   monsters at Infant Isle.
   Continue leveling up your
   team.
5. Breeding when your monsters
   are level 10 or up.
6. Use spells like Zoom to get
   out of trouble.
7. Start scout new monsters at
   Infant Isle and train them,
   add monster information to yo
8. Check your monster library
   and spell library.

================================

Story [W1.5]
-----
A Monsterrific New World

Welcome to Green Bays, a cluster
of mysterious islands that
sprakle like jewels in the
shimmering ocean! But travelers
beware! The islandsd are not as
peaceful as they seem, for they
teem with a multitude of
monsters both great and small.

Green Bays is also home to the
famous Monster Scout Challenge.
This renowned contest, held once
every few years, determines who
will be crowned the world's
greatest scout. The challenge is
organized by the Monster Scout
Organisation, whose headquarters
are located on Domus Isle, which
lies at the center of the
archipelago.

Now a new challenge is about to
begin, and the creme de la creme
of the scouting world are
converging on the islands...

It is time for you to begin your
quest to become the greatest
monster scout in Green Bays, and
in history!

Story obtained from DQMJ
Instruction Booklet

================================

Walkthrough [W2.0]
-----------

The game starts by naming your
hero (you play throughout the
main story). You are in cell at
the secret hideout of CELL,
shadowy organization by your
father. Your father send Black
Jacques to take you to see him.
Your father send you to join the
Monster Scout Challenge. He says
this is a mission that you must
complete.

Go to Domus Isle [W2.1]
----------------

Straight back to the door. Open
the door and down the stairs.
Cutscene will happen just before
you head to the jetty. You see a
Hacksaurus and a scout with
Black Jacques talking. It ends
go to the door with the switch.
It leads to a jetty to go to
Domus Isle. Go the jetty. Walk
to the dock and talk to the
hooded muscle guy. He says once
you've left that you won't be
able to return. He will asks
leaving,answer yes. But before
you leave he give a monster you
take along.

Choices:

Dracky             Rank F Demon
Platypunk          Rank F Beast
Mischievous Mole   Rank F Beast

It is your choice which one you
prefer. Once you choice a
monster you must give the
monster a name. After naming
your first monster for your
team, go to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle
----------

Enter the Monster Scout
Challenge [W2.2]
--------------------------------

Now you are at Domus Isle, up
the stairs and right to another
stairs leading to the Monster
Scout Organization Headquarters.
Talk to the man in suit. He says
the opening ceremony is behind
schedule and stairs to the main
square is closed for a mean
time. Go to the lady near the
jetty and talk to her. She says
if you go down the steps, a sea
scooter that will take you to
Infant Isle. Jetty to Infant
Isle.

Infant Isle
-----------

Monsters Location
-----------------

Daytime
=======

Slime Rank F Slime Mischievous
Mole Rank F Beast Platypunk Rank
F Beast Gigantes Rank A Beast
(Random respawn)

Nighttime
=========

Dracky Rank F Demon Ghost Rank F
Zombie Winky Rank F Demon Stump
Chump Rank F Zombie


Take the Scout's Pledge on
Infant Isle [W2.3]
--------------------------------

Straight to the Scoutpost. I
recommend you to save your game
here. Talk to the man in the
scout information desk. He asks
are you taking the Monster
Scout's pledge. You go to the
temple at the top of mountain.
Monsters that you have to fight
your way through. If your
monsters get hurt run back to
the scoutpost to be heal. Out
and head right. Continue going
right and up a hill to the
right. Walk around you may see a
brown chest. Across three wooden
planks to the other side.
Approach the chest. Open the
chest and get item. Back to the
other side and continue going
right. Left and follow that
path. You see a tent. Inside the
tent, you can play the
Scoutmaster Shuffles minigame if
you interested (See answers in
W1.2). I recommend you do the
Beginner's Monster Scout
Proficiency Test. The path leads
to the stairs, up the stairs.
Follow the path to a cave.

Cave
----

Monster Location
----------------

Dracky     Rank F Demon
Lips       Rank F Demon
Shadow     Rank F Material


Left and follow it to the end.
At the end, a red chest contains
weapons for your monster to
equip. Back up to the split in
the path and take the right path
that leads to a rope. Climb up
the rope and right of the
temple. A cutscene will begins
as you approach the temple.

Top Mountain (Temple)
------------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
-------

Slime (3) Rank F Slime King
Slime Rank C Slime (Random
respawn)

A scout attempting to scout an
Incarnus. The cutscene ends as
Incarnus jumps away. The scout
introduces herself as Solitaire.

Visit the Scout's Stone [W2.4]
-----------------------

Up to the stone tablet and read
the tablet. The man from the
scoutpost notify you that the
preparations for the opening
ceremony is about to begin. Back
to jetty to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Attend the opening ceremony on
Domus Isle [W2.5]
--------------------------------

Up main stairway and talk to the
man in suit. He apolizes for the
delay and the opening ceremony
is about to begin. Walk up the
main stairway and the cutscene
begins. Opening ceremony begins
with a scene of a man standing
and looking at the crowd of
Monster Scouts. The person will
introduce himself as Dr. Snap,
Commissioner of the MOnster
Scout Organisation.

Register at Monster Scout HQ
[W2.6]
----------------------------

Up the stairs and take the lift
to HQ. Straight to the woman at
the desk near the wall. Talk to
the woman and she will register
your name as a contestant of
Monster Scout Challenge.She will
tell you the objectives in the
challenge:

1. Collect ten darkonium
   crystals that are scattered
   around on each islands. I
   will help you the challenge.

2. Once you collected all ten
   darkonium crystals, you can
   proceed to the goal: Monster

Explore new islands [W2.7]
-------------------

Back to the lift. A cutscene
will start as a scout been
stopped by a man in suit. The
scene ends and take the lift
down. Straight down the stairs
pass the fountain to the jetty.
You will noticed there are two
jetties. Left heads to Infern
Isle. Right heads to Xeroph
Isle. Take the right jetty to
Xeroph Isle.

Xeroph Isle
-----------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Healslime       Rank F Slime
Spitnik         Rank F Material
Scorpion        Rank F Nature

Nighttime
=========

Fire Spirit     Rank F Zombie
Crabid          Rank F Nature

Straight to the scoutpost to
heal your team if necessary,save
your game. Scout's den and walk
to a scout at the table. Talk to
him and he introduces himself as
Slimon, another rival in the
challenge. Scout's noticeboard
and read the scout news. You
noticed the name of Rummy is
first in standing. Curious who
is Rummy. Talk to Solitaire and
leave scoutpost. Left and past
two stone pillars near the
scoutpost. Down the stairs and
stop along down the ramp you
noticed a blue chest. Continue
going down the ramp to the
crater.

Crater
------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Komodo Rank F Dragon Dancing
Flame Rank F Material Skullgon
Rank D Dragon (Random respawn)

Nighttime
=========

Chimera         Rank F Nature
Frostburn       Rank F Material

Approach blue chest and claim
your first darkonium crystal.
You also noticed a tent DON'T GO
INSIDE. The tent is a minigame
that you battle three rounds in
the battle arena (see W1.0).
Right now the arena is not open.
Head to the quicksand that is a
hidden cavern. Into the
quicksand.

Hidden Cavern
-------------

Monster Location
----------------

Winky        Rank F Demon
Muddy Hand   Rank E Zombie

Follow the path to a cutscene
will happens. Incarnus is
injured while fighting an Orc.
The orc sees you and charges at
you. Kill the orc and it drops a
chest contains a sacred spear.
Get the spear and the cutscene
will continue as you approach
Incarnus. You carry Incarnus to
the scoutpost to be heal. You
report an incident to the woman
and Dr.Snap arrives to check on
Incarnus and ask to use the
Scout's den to heal Incarnus.
The woman says Incarnus is
healed and you can go to the
Scout's den to see how it is.
Dr. Snap says ah, you are
Incarnus' master. After Dr. Snap
leaves, approach Incarnus and
talk to him. Incarnus will join
your team. Name your Incarnus
and leave scoutpost. Head back
to the crater and into the
quicksand.

Explore the Northern cave [W2.8]
-------------------------

Monster Location
----------------

Demon Rider  Rank E Demon
Funghoul     Rank F Zombie

Follow the path to the end. Left
and up around. Down to the
shore. You see a brown chest and
a drawbridge. Approach brown
chest and get item. Approach the
drawbridge and lower it. Head to
the shrine and enter.

Xeroph Shrine [W2.8.1]
-------------

Monster Location
----------------

Bag o' Laughs   Rank F Material
Hammerhood      Rank F Beast
Mummy boy       Rank E Zombie


If Lost
-------

Dessert Demon   Rank D Demon
Imp (2)         Rank E Demon

Be warned: If you take the wrong
way and door you will go in a
loop and get lost.

You better follow my directions
so you don't get lost.

Left up the stairs. You see the
glowing seal on the floor. It is
your guide to the nexus chamber.
Approach the door and enter. You
see two seals and head to the
door, enter. Left up the stairs,
right up another stairs and you
should see three seals. Straight
to the door and enter. Left up
the stairs, right up another
stairs. You see a brown chest.
Approach the chest and take
item. Left up the stairs and
follow the path to the door of
the nexus chamber. Before
entering the nexus chamber,
appraoch the blue chest and get
your second darkonium crystal
and red chest for another
weapon. Enter the two pair of
doors. Battle the first boss of
the shrine: Golem. Kill the
Golem and get a copy of "How to
zoom" book. Incarnus will
transform from wolf pup to a
naked chicken. Leave nexus
chamber.

Explore new shrines [W2.9]
-------------------

Before leaving Xeroph Isle, pass
the two stone pillars and down
the stairs. Down left ramp to
the red chest for a seed or
weapon. Back to the beach and
head to the jetty for Palaish
Isle. Jetty to Palaish Isle.

Palaish Isle
------------

You may noticed on your minimap
there is a shrine at the north
tip. That is where you have to
go next. First straight to
scoutpost and heal if necessary.
Save. Up to the stairs on the
right and across to the brown
doors. Enter the palace of
Madame Rummy and talk to the man
straight ahead. He welcomes you
to the palace. Something about a
game that you must participate
in. See Madame Rummy at the top.
Up either stairs and see Madame
Rummy. A short cutscene will
begin. Madame Rummy greets you
to her realm and asks you to
amuse her by playing her game.
Play the game to gain all access
to her garden. It is the only
way to the Palaish Shrine at the
north tip. Back down either
stairs to the man to play the
games. The game consists of a
certain of number of slimes to
kill in a certain time period.

First game: Kill 9 slimes in 2
minutes and 10 seconds.

Second game: Kill 15 slimes in 3
minutes and 40 seconds.

Once you completed both games,
you have all access to Madame
Rummy's garden. Up to the stairs
on the right and right again to
the brown doors to enter the
garden.


Madame Rummy's Garden
---------------------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Capishum Rank F Nature Sea
Urchin Rank F Demon Spike Hare
Rank E Nature Goodybag Rank E
Material Dragonthorn Rank F
Dragon (Random respawn)
Khalamari Kid Rank E Nature King
Kelp Rank E Material (Random
respawn)

Nighttime
=========

Shell Slime Rank F Slime Chanine
Rank E Beast Seasaur Rank D
Dragon (Random respawn) Angel
Slime Rank D Slime

Head right and follow the path.
You will see a brown chest,
approach the chest and take
item. Continue follow the path
to the right and left down a
ramp to a gate to another part
of the garden. Enter the gates
and go straight along the path.
Stop at the ladder and climb up
the ladder to brown chest, take
item. Climb down the ladder and
back on the path. Straight along
the path to a ramp leading down.
Down the ramp and straight to a
ladder to another brown chest,
take item. Climb down the ladder
and go to the grass area with
gates. Enter the gates to a moat
with drawbridges. You have to
kick the drawbridges down to go
across. Do it in this following
order:

1. 1st drawbridge to your right,
   across.

2. 2nd drawbridge to your right,
   across.

3. 3rd drawbridge to your left,
   across.

4. 4th drawbridge to straight
   and to your right, across.

5. 5th drawbridge to your left,
   across.

6. 6th drawbridge to your left,
   across to the blue chest and
   claim your third crystal.

Back across the sixth, fifth and
fourth drawbridge and follow the
path right. Stop under, near the
great stariways you should see a
wooden sign with an arrow. Down
a ramp near you and follow the
arrow. Left under the arches to
a small beach. Up the ramp
straight ahead and follow the
path to Palaish Shrine.

Palaish Shrine [W3.0]
--------------

Enter the shrine and you met
Solitaire again. She will try to
make a trade of Jailcat and Lips
for your Incarnus. But you
didn't accept the trade anyway.
She will leave. Enter the
shrine. Stop and look at the
Dungeon Directory. There are
four floors at this shrine.

Floor 1 (Entrance)
-------
Straight to the blue device to
Level 2. Touch the device.

Floor 2 (Anteroom)
-------

Monster Location
----------------

Bubble Slime Rank F Slime Gold
Golem Rank D Material (Random
respawn)

Left pass the red device (Level
1) and you see green goo
dripping from the ceiling and
brown chest. Approach the chest
and take item. Straight back to
the other side and up the stairs
not far an balcony with green
device to Level 3.

Floor 3 (Giant Water Tank)
-------

Monster Location
----------------

Green Dragon Rank D Dragon (Only
one, not respawn) Sea Urchin
Rank F Demon Wax Murderer Rank E
Material Jailcat Rank E Nature
Skipper Rank E Zombie Cannibox
Rank D Material

Down the stairs and follow the
path. You noticed a Green Dragon
is blocking a room with two red
chests. I recommend you scout
the Green Dragon because it will
not respawn again. This is the
only Green Dragon in the game.
Approach the red chests and take
items. Straight back to the
other side and up the stairs.
Left to the brown chest and take
item. Straight back and left to
a balcony with gold device to
Level 4. Touch the device.

Floor 4 (Nexus Chamber)
-------

Monster Location
----------------

Lump Wizard   Rank E Demon
Fencing Fox   Rank E Beast

Follow the path. Diagonally left
to an opening. Enter and left to
two red chests. Take items. Up
the stairs on your left and
follow the path to the door of
the Nexus Chamber. Before going
into the Nexus Chamber, appraoch
the blue chest and claim your
fourth crystal. Approach the red
chest and take item. Enter the
Nexus Chamber and face the
second boss: Moosifer. Kill the
Moosifer and get a copy of "Joy
of Evac" book. Incarnus
transform from naked chicken
into cluboon and tells you what
he is. Leave the nexus chamber.

Madame Rummy's Garden
---------------------

Follow the path to the right to
blue chest and claim your fifth
crystal. Straight back out and
right on the other side.
Straight to a drawbridge to your
left. Lower the drawbridge and
across to a ladder. Climb down
the ladder. Right to scoutpost
and heal if necessary, save.
Leave scoutpost and climb up the
ladder. Across the drawbridge
and up the ramp with a sign
pointing up. Left to another
ramp up. Follow the path to a
jetty to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Up the stairs and up another
stairs to the main square. Right
and down to the jetty. This time
take the left jetty to Infern
Isle.


Infern Isle
-----------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Flyguy Rank D Zombie Skelton
Rank D Zombie Walking Corpse
Rank C Zombie Metal Slime Knight
Rank D Slime

Nighttime
=========

Dark Slime Knight Rank B Slime

Since there is no scoutpost,
straight to console to heal your
team. Left and follow the path
to a split. Take the right to a
blue chest and claim your sixth
crystal. Back down the path to
that split and take the left to
a red chest. Take item. Back and
left up the hill. Another left
over a roof to the other side.
Right to a jetty to Celeste Isle
(South).

Celeste Isle (South)
------------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime (South)
=======

Headhunter      Rank D Demon
Mecha-mynah     Rank D Material
Great Sabrecub  Rank D Nature
Metal Slime     Rank D Slime
Great Sabrecat  Rank C Nature
Hunter Mech     Rank C Material

Nighttime (South)
=========

Lesser Demon    Rank D Demon
Nardragon       Rank E Dragon
Restless Armor  Rank C Zombie


Straight to scoutpost and heal
if necessary, save. Right and
you noticed a little island
across the ocean. It is actually
the nexus chamber for this
shrine. Continue going right and
right again until you see a
bridge to the other side. Across
the bridge and right pass more
ruins until you see stairs. Up
the stairs and right to enter
the shrine (Temple of the Sun).

Temple of the Sun [W3.1]
-----------------

Monster Location
----------------

Lesser Demon      Rank D Demon
Wrecktor          Rank C Demon
Notso Macho       Rank C Beast
Skelton Warrior   Rank B Zombie

Level 1
-------
Once you enter the temple, you
noticed bars has been lowered.
Right to a switch, press it to
raise the bars. Back around and
go to the first doorway you see.
Straight to the stairs on the
left and up the stairs to Level
2.

Level 2
-------
Left and follow it to red chest.
Take item. Back towards the
stairs, DO NOT GO DOWN!. Pass
the stairs and left to a mirror.
Talk to the mirror and warp to
the Temple of the Moon.

Temple of the Moon
------------------

Monster Location
----------------

Phantom Fencer     Rank D Zombie
Hacksaurus         Rank C Dragon
Restless Armor     Rank C Zombie
Gryphon            Rank c Demon

Level 2
-------
Straight and left to the red
chest for an item. Straight and
left to the stairs. Down the
stairs to Level 1.

Level 1
-------
Straight and left to next room.
Left up the stairs to Level 2.

Level 2 (Revisit)
-------
A red chest in front of you.
Take item. Right up the stairs
to Level 3.

Level 3
-------
Left out the door. Approach the
Great Looking Glass and talk to
it. It will says it needs the
tablet of the sun and moon.
Approach the red doors to Temple
of the Sun Level 3.

Temple of the Sun (Revisit)
-----------------

Monster Location
----------------

Lesser Demon      Rank D Demon
Wrecktor          Rank C Demon
Notso Macho       Rank C Beast
Skelton Warrior   Rank B Zombie

Level 3
-------
Straight to a room with a lever.
Pull the lever. The doors in a
room opens revealing the solar
(sun) tablet. Listen to the
strange voice. Follow the lights
on the floor to Level 2.

Level 2
-------
While you follow the lights, go
to red chest and take item.
Continue follow the lights to a
switch on the floor. Step onto
the switch to open the doors.
Continue follow the lights to
the solar (sun) tablet. Listen
to the another strange voice.
Follow the same lights but this
time back to Level 3.

Level 3 (Revisit)
-------
Right out the door and place the
solar (sun) tablet on the altar.
After you place the solar (sun)
tablet, Black Jacques come with
another mission from your
father. Your father orders you
to challenge the commissioner,
Dr.Snap to a monster battle. It
is a diversion to get Snap away
from his office to steal. Do
challenge commissioner.

Challenge Commissioner Dr.Snap
[W3.2]
------------------------------

Celeste Isle (South)
------------

Before leaving Celeste Isle
(South), go into the ruins and
take items from brown and red
chests. Also included a blue
chest and claim your seventh
crystal. Back to scoutpost and
heal if necessary, save. Go
jetty to Infern Isle.

Infern Isle (Revisit)
-----------

Another jetty to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Up two flights of stairs and
take the lift to MSO HQ. Left to
the Commissioner's Office. Talk
to the woman. She will let you
in and talk to Dr.Snap. Dr.Snap
agrees to challenge you. You and
Dr.Snap are the battle arena on
Xeroph Isle. You challenge him
in four-in-a-row battle. He says
this is just practice for the
finals. It's does not matter you
win or lose to him, you still
get your reward anyway. After
the challenge, you and Dr.Snap
return back to Domus Isle. The
man reports the commissioner's
office has been robbed.

Go to Commissioner's Office
[W3.3]
---------------------------

Up two flight of stairs and take
the lift to MSO HQ. Left and
enter the commissioner's office.
Ignore the brown treasure chest.
Talk to Dr.Snap. The man in suit
says leave.

Explore remain shrines [W3.4]
----------------------

Take the lift to go leave MSO
HQ. Once you are out, Incarnus
mentions a letter in your pocket
that someone secretly. The
letter say the gate on Infant
Isle is now unlock. Go jetty to
Infant Isle.

Infant Isle (Revisist)
-----------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Hades Condor   Rank C Nature

Nighttime
=========

Winky        Rank F Demon
Slime (3)    Rank F Slime

Do you remember the gate is
locked when you visit Infant
Isle first time? Now it is
unlock so you can access another
 jetty. Look at your minimap, yo
small island. Across the rope
bridge to blue chest and claim
your eighth crystal. Left up the
hill to a ladder. Climb down the
ladder and to the brown chest.
Take item. Approach another
ladder and climb down. Go jetty
to Celeste Isle (North).

Celeste Isle (North)
------------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime (North)
=======

Dancing Devil   Rank D Demon
Headhunter      Rank D Demon
Gargoyle        Rank C Beast

Nighttime (North)
=========

Night Emperor   Rank D Beast

Left up the hill and continue
going left to red chest. Take
item. Right and across the rope
bridge. Straight to the door of
the Temple of the Moon.

Temple of the Moon (Revisit)
[W3.4.1]
------------------

Monster Location
----------------

Phantom Fencer     Rank D Zombie
Hacksaurus         Rank C Dragon
Restless Armor     Rank C Zombie
Gryphon            Rank c Demon

Level 2 (Revisit)
-------
Right to a button and press it.
Straight, left, right, straight,
and right to the stairs. Down
the stairs and straight out.
Left to the blue mirror. Talk to
it and warp to Temple of the
Sun.

Temple of the Sun (Revisit)
-----------------

Monster Location
----------------

Lesser Demon      Rank D Demon
Gryphon           Rank C Demon
Notso Macho       Rank C Beast
Skelton Warrior   Rank B Zombie

Level 1 (Revisit)
-------
Left to brown chest and take
item. Straight and left to the
stairs. Up the stairs and left
up another stairs to Level 2.

Level 2 (Revisit)
-------
DO NOT GO DOWN! Continue left up
the stairs to Level 3.

Level 3 (Revisit)
-------
Right out the door and across to
blue door of Temple of the Moon
Level 3.

Temple of the Moon (Revisit)
------------------

Level 3 (Revisit)
-------
Straight to a room with a lever.
Pull the lever. The doors opens
revealing the lunar (moon)
tablet. Listen to the strange
voice. Follow the lights on the
floor to Level 2.

Level 2 (Revisit)
-------
Continue follow the lights to
Level 1.

Level 1 (Revisit)
-------
Continue follow the lights to a
switch on the floor. Step onto
the switch to open doors.
Continue follow the lights to
the lunar (moon) tablet. Listen
to another strange voice. Follow
the lights back to Level 3. Left
out the door and place the
tablet on the altar.

Celeste Isle (North)
------------

Great Looking Glass will
transports you to a small
island. Before going into the
nexus chamber, approach the blue
chest and claim your ninth
crystal. Just one more crystal
to get. Approach red chest and
take item. Enter and face the
boss: Great Dragon. Kill the
Great Dragon and get the
"Whistling for Dummies" book.
Incarnus will transofrm from
cluboon to diamagon. Incarnus
talks to you why collecting the
darkonium crystals. Curious too.
Leave the chamber. Talk to Great
Looking Glass to warp back to
mainland. Back to console to
heal and head to the jetty. You
noticed there are two jetties.
Left to Fert isle. Right to
Infant Isle. Go left jetty to
Fert Isle.

Fert Isle
---------

Monster Location
----------------

Daytime
=======

Argon Lizard Rank F Dragon
Frogface Rank E Demon Metal
Slime Rank E Slime Hell Hornet
Rank D Nature Hades Condor Rank
C Nature Scrissor Beatle Rank C
Nature Bodkin Archer Rank c
Beast Hacksaurus Rank C Dragon
Great Argon Lizard Rank B Dragon
(respawn) Beetleboy Rank B
Nature Goreilla Rank B Nature
Boss Troll Rank B Demon (Only
one, not respawn)

Nighttime
=========

Mud Mannequin Rank C Material
Lump Wizard Rank E Demon
Dingaling Rank C Material
Hellhound Rank C Zombie Giant
Moth Rank B Nature Treeface Rank
C Nature Jargon Rank E Dragon
Fang Slime Rank D Slime Wailin'
Weed Rank A Zombie (Respawn)

Straight to scoutpost and heal
if necessary, save. Right and
follow the path up to brown
chest. Take item. Down the ramp
and left along the path. Left up
the hill to a treehole to the
other side. Left and you see
Boss Troll. He is also like the
Green Dragon from Palaish Isle
Shrine is only one in the game.
Recommend scout him too.
Approach red chest and take
item. Back and follow the path
to the right to the exit.
Straight and left along the path
to a ladder. Climb up the ladder
to brown chest. Take item. Left
across the wooden bridge to a
ladder. Climb up the ladder to
red chest and take item. Climb
down the ladder and straight
across wooden bridge. Left
around to another ladder. Climb
up the ladder to blue chest and
claim your last darkonium
crystal. Now you have all ten
darkonium crystals in your
hands, you can enter the finals.
But you have to keep your
promise to Incarnus. Down the
ladder and head to another
ladder. Down the ladder and left
along the path, a cutscene will
started. Three masked muscle men
will remove boxes away from a
ladder.

Fert Shrine [W3.5]
-----------

Straight and right to a wooden
bridge. Across the wooden bridge
and up around to the top. Across
the rope bridge to the nexus
chamber of Fert Shrine. Before
entering, approach blue chest
for a piece of darkonium crystal
and red chest for item. Take
both items. Enter the shrine,
you met again with Solitaire.
She has nine crystals, but you
have all ten darkonium crystals.
(HAHAHA!!). She leaves. Enter
the nexus chamber and face the
final shrine boss: Demon-At-
Arms. Kill the Demon-At-Arms and
get a copy of "Art of Vanishing"
book. Leave the shrine and back
to scout to heal, save.

Head to Baden's Belfry at MSO HQ
[W3.6]
--------------------------------

Leave scoutpost and go jetty to
Celeste Isle (North).

Celeste Isle (North) (Revisit)
------------

Jetty to Infant Isle.

Infant Isle (Revisit)
-----------

Jetty to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Up two flight of stairs and left
to take the lift to MSO HQ. Up
either stairs and your left to
the door leads to the Baden
Belfry. Ring the bell. The
Monster Scout Challenge
Championship begins.

Prepare for the finals [W3.7]
----------------------

Leave MSO HQ to scout, train, or
breed. When do go down the
stairs, you got stop by
Solitaire (Ginny Rummy). Take
all the time to train your team
for the finals because your team
need alot of health points to
survive the remaining of the
main story. I suggest go to Fert
Isle and train there. Jetty to
Infant Isle if anyone didn't get
King Slime or Gigantes. On your
way, Black Jacques has new order
from your father. The letter
says your mission is over.
Hooray! Now you can concentrate
on the championship. When you
ready, back to MSO HQ and
straight to the woman at the
desk. She asks you ready and
answer yes.

Monster Scout Challenge
Championship
================================

You will fight the following
finalists in this order:

   1. Slimon
   2. Missy
   3. Tryger
   4. Solitaire

Incarnus says something to
Solitaire that made her mad.
Solitaire kicks Incarnus in the
face and disqualified for her
actions. By default, you won the
championship. You go to the
Commissioner's Office. Dr. Snap
let your Incarnus approach the
brown chest with the prize, The
Mark. Then Dr.Snap hold a
darkonium sphere and change
Incarnus from Wildspude Ace to
Ace of Spades (dark side). Ace
of Spades knows that Mark is
fake and senses the real Mark at
the CELL HQ. You try to stop Ace
and Dr.Snap leaving, but Ace of
Spades throw you against the
wall. Solitaire wakes you up.

Find the Commissioner [W3.8]
---------------------

Out of Commissioner's Office and
talk to the man next to the
lift. Take the lift to leave MSO
HQ. Right and talk to the woman.
She says he went jetty to Infant
Isle. Down the ramp and right to
the jetty. Talk to the woman
next to jetty to Infant Isle.
She says he went jetty to Infant
Isle. Down the stairs and jetty
to Infant Isle.

Infant Isle (Revisit)
-----------

Straight to scoutpost and heal
if necessary, save. A man
standing near to a wall and talk
to him. Go to Scout's den and
talk to a man. He says he saw
the commissioner crossing the
rope bridge. Back to the rope
bridge and across to the jetty
to Celeste Isle (North).

Celeste Isle (North) (Revisit)
------------

Straight to console and heal if
necessary. Talk to man next to
the console. He say commissioner
went to Fert Isle. Down the
stairs and jetty to Fert Isle.

Fert Isle (Revist)
---------

Straight to scoutpost and heal
if necessary, save. To the
Scout's den and talk to Black
Jacques. He will mention what
happened at CELL HQ and a secret
jetty to CELL HQ. Leave
scoutpost and to the secret
jetty to CELL HQ.

CELL HQ [W3.9]
-------

Monster Location
================

Dingaling        Rank C Material
Jargon           Rank E Dragon
Metal Dragon     Rank C Dragon
Hacksaurus       Rank C Dragon

Right to the lift. Take the lift
to hideout. Left to red chest.
Take item. Right to the stairs.
Up the stairs and right to a man
on the floor. Talk to him. He
says save Warren, your father.
Up the stairs to Warren's
Office. Enter the office and
fight Belial. Kill Belial that
drops a chest and take item.
Approach your father and a
cutscene will start. You and
your father will talk to each
other. Take the baryon sphere
with you. You will use that
sphere to neutralise the dark
matter from Incarnus. To the
bookcase with a ladder and read.
It mentions Infern Isle. Out of
Warren's office and jetty back
to Fert Isle.

Fert Isle (Revisit)
---------

Jetty to Celeste Isle (North).

Celeste Isle (North) (Revisit)
------------

Jetty to Infant Isle.

Infant Isle (Revisit)
-----------

Jetty to Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Jetty to Infern Isle.

Infern Isle (Revisit)
-----------

Monster Location
----------------

Outside
=======

Dragurn           Rank D Dragon
Lethal Armor      Rank B Zombie


Diagonally to the building with
glowing red eyes and enter.
Straight to another door. Right
to the opening and enter the
Wasteland (Tartarus). A short
cutscene will starts as you
approach and look at the
mountain.

Tartarus [W4.0]
--------

Monster Location
----------------

Outside Tartarus
================

Tyrantosaurus Rank C Dragon
Cockteer Rank B Beast Skelton
Warrior Rank B Zombie Trapbox
Rank S Material (only one, not
respawn)

Inside Tartarus
===============

Liquid metal slime Rank C Slime
Fallen Priest Rank B Demon
Soulspawn Rank B Zombie Phantom
Swordsman Rank B Zombie Mimic
Rank B Material (only one, not
respawn)

Left and right up the hill.
Around and under an arch.
Continue follow the path to the
left. Left up the hill and left
up the hill again. Follow the
path to the right and right up
another hill. Fight Ace of
Spades at the entrance of
mountain. Use the baryon sphere
on Ace of Spades. Ace of Spades
back to original Wildspude Ace.
Incarnus will thank you and
rejoin your team.

1st Floor Tartarus
------------------
Straight and left up the slope.
Left up again and to brown
chest. Take item. Straight and
left to go outside. rIght up the
hill to brown chest. Take item.
Back left down the hill and left
to go inside again. Straight and
left to another entrance to 2nd
Floor.

2nd Floor Tartarus
------------------
Continue going left and follow
the path. Left up and fight mid-
boss: Boss Troll. Straight back
to the path and left to 3rd
Floor.

3rd Floor Tartarus
------------------
Continue follow the path to the
left. Stop and climb up the
vines. Fight mid-boss: Black
Dragon. After the fight, Black
Dragon drops a chest. Take item.
I recommend you scout Mimic
where you are now. Mimic is same
as Green Dragon in Palaish
Shrine. Mimic is disguise as a
brown chest. Climb down the
vines and right to go out. Left
up and around to enter 4th
Floor.

4th Floor Tartarus
------------------
Right and follow the path to
your left. Continue follow the
path left and right to brown
chest. Take item. Straight on
the path to go out. Right up the
hill to red chest. Take item.
Back left to enter the mountain
again. Right to go to 5th Floor.

5th Floor Tartarus
------------------
Right up the path. I also
recommend you scout Trapbox.
Trapbox is the same as Mimic,
Green Dragon, Boss Troll.
Continue going up to another
entrance of mountain. Left and
follow the path to red chest.
Take item. Down the ramp on the
left and right to another red
chest. Take item. Right and
continue going right to 6th
Floor.

6th Floor Tartarus
------------------
Straight and follow the path. At
the center, fight mid-boss:
Atlas. Continue follow the path
to the right to the top of
Tartarus.

Top Tartarus
------------
Straight and right to two red
chests. Take items. Back left
and left up a ramp to the very
top. First you use your baryon
sphere to away the dark matter
from Dr. Snap. The sphere will
break at the second time of use.
Then you fight Dr. Snap while he
recharge his darkonium sphere.
Both monsters will drop a chest.
Take items. Dr. Snap will try
again to use the sphere on your
Incarnus. But Dr.Snap will
transform into a such very ugly
monster: Dr. Snapped. Fight him
again. After the fight, Dr.
Snapped will be taken to the
dark world. Incarnus take the
Mark and thank you for helping
him on his sacred mission.
Incarnus will vanish up to the
sky. You are back at Domus Isle.

Domus Isle (Revisit)
----------

Go to the Commissioner's Office
[W4.1]
-------------------------------

Straight to the lift. Take the
lift to MSO HQ. Left to the
Commissioner's Office. The new
commissioner is no other than
your rival, Solitaire. She tells
you her mother, Madame Rummy, is
a major sponsor of the MSO. She
wants you to compete in a new
challenge with her personal
twist. She dismissed and jetty
to Infant Isle.

Visit the Scout's Stone
(Revisit) [W4.2]
-----------------------

Straight and right to the lift.
Take the lift to leave MSO HQ.
Right and straight to jetty
(Infant Isle). While going to
Infant Isle, you remember all
the time you and Incarnus went
through at the Monster Scout
Challenge to become the new
champion.

Infant Isle (Revisit)
-----------

You arrived at the top of the
mountain. Right around the
temple and another right to the
front of temple. Straight to the
Scout's Stone and read the
pledge. You closed your eyes and
you suddenly hear something
behind you. It's Incarnus and
back to rejoin you for a new
challenge awaits you. You and
Incarnus leave the temple
together.

Congraduation! You beat and
finish the main story of the
game. Save your clear game. It
is your choice to continue the
game or not. To continue, just
click on your clear game. Also,
you can change Incarnus into new
adult forms.

You and Incarnus at the
Commissioner's Office. Solitaire
have a new challenge for you.
Did you noticed a woman and man
standing near the door. They are
in charge of looking at your
skill and monster library. If
you obtain a certain
requirements, they will give you
a monster for your reward (see
W1.1).

This new challenge have you to
fulfil two requirements:

1. Pass the Advanced Monster
   Scout Proficiency Test
  (see answers W1.3) on    Infan
2. Pass the Battle Arena at
   Xeroph Isle (see W1.0).

Also you can go back to Palaish
Isle and play Madame Rummy's
game to gain access to Metal
Menagerie. Kill 15 slimes in 3
minutes. Then you can go inside
the Metal Menagerie to scout or
kill all the metal slimes in 2
minutes and 30 seconds.

Metal Menagerie
---------------

Metal Slime         Rank D Slime
Liquid Metal Slime  Rank C Slime
King Metal Slime    Rank S Slime


The rest is up to you if you are
willing to challenge Solitaite
to a monster battle.

================================
Credits
-------

Chichi for his monster list.

Zelos71 for his modified list
monster list with English names.

Gamespot for the knowledge of
the unlockable monsters.

MrFighto for the answers to
Advanced Monster Scout
Proficiency Test.

Square Enix for remaking the
original GB game into this game
for DS.

================================

Copyright 2007 Square Enix

Copyright 2007 arline6



