********************************

     Kirby Super Star Ultra FAQ/
      For the Nintendo DS
     Version 1.2 (Last Updated 3
        By Devin Morgan

    This file is Copyright (c)20

********************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. Spring Breeze
5. Gourmet Race
6. Dyna Blade
7. The Great Cave Offensive
8. Revenge of the Meta Knight
9. Milky Way Wishes
10. Revenge of the King
11. Meta Knightmare Ultra
12. Helper to Hero
13. The Arena
14. The True Arena
15. Abilities
16. Mini-Games
17. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
18. Credits
19. Copyright Notice

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.2 (3/19/10): Corrected
a Great Cave Offensive treasure
misspelling, and added
information about gaining
abilities in Milky Way Wishes.

Version 1.15 (4/2/09): Made a
small addition to the Helper to
Hero section. Also, made a
slight change to the Great Cave
Offensive regarding the King's
Cape (43) treasure.

Version 1.1 (10/2/08): Added a
couple of notes in the True
Arena section, as well as a
couple of extra abilities to
that section.

Version 1.05 (9/29/08): Made a
couple of small corrections, as
noted in the Credits section.

Version 1.0 (9/28/08): The
first, and complete, version of
this FAQ. As of now, all
sections are complete. More
information may or may not be
added in the future, but for
right now, everything that needs
to be covered, is here.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Kirby is back once again on the
Nintendo DS, in a remake of
Kirby Super Star (SNES). Not
only is this game a remake with
all your favorite games
contained within, but there are
a number of added new games as
well. As usual, there is a wide
variety of abilities that Kirby
has at his disposal throughout
the numerous adventures, so
there is plenty to master. The
new features will be sure to
keep you quite busy as well. If
you are a Kirby fan, and loved
the original Kirby Super Star as
much as I did, you'll love this
version!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Control Pad: Move character

Start: Access menu screen

A/Y: Jump (press again to fly)

B: Inhale/spit out, use current
ability

X: Create a helper (if you have
an ability equipped), dismiss
helper

L/R: Block to defend attacks

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Spring Breeze  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

This game is basically a remake
of the original Kirby's Dream
Land for Gameboy. There are four
levels (the third one from the
original was removed from this
version), and they are quite
straightforward. Being that it
is of one-star difficulty
according to the game, there
really isn't anything noteworthy
to be concerned about here. The
levels are very linear and won't
require any real walkthroughs to
get through them. If you need
help with the bosses (Whispy
Woods, Lololo and Lalala,
Kracko, and King Dedede), please
consult the Arena section, where
actual strategies will be
provided.


=======
Secrets
=======

Hidden Room (Level 3)
---------------------

This secret is found in the room
before the Kracko boss battle.
There, you will have to fly
upward to the top of the room.
When you see the door, pass it
and continue flying up to the
moon in the background. When you
are in front of the moon, press
Up to enter a hidden area.
There, you will freefall,
allowing you to collect various
food items and an extra life. At
the bottom, you will fight a
mini-boss which you can obtain
the Hammer ability from after
defeating.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Gourmet Race -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this game, you race on three
courses against King Dedede. The
objective is not only to win the
race, but to collect more food
items than your opponent. You
can either take part in a Time
Attack made, where you play for
fun, and the Grand Prix, where
you race all three courses one
at a time. Every food item
counts for 1 point, with Max
Tomatoes counting for 3 points.
In the Grand Prix, you gain an
extra 30 points for each race
you win as well. Early in the
third track, you will find a
variety of abilities that you
can obtain; the Jet ability (the
first one) is ideal for much of
the level due to the upward
flying you will have to do.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Dyna Blade -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

Here, you play through a series
of stages much like Spring
Breeze. One of the main
differences is that there is a
map where you can choose which
level to go to (out of the ones
you have access to). At the end
of every stage, you will have a
scene where you shoot out of a
cannon. Shoot to the right with
high power (view the meter
above) and you may gain some
extra lives. After you beat the
first two levels, you will see
an enemy wandering the map.
Defeat the Iron Mam and you can
get the Fighter ability from it
if you want, as well as an extra
life.

The final level of the game,
atop the mountain, pits you
against Dyna Blade itself. The
stages themselves are generally
linear, so a full-out
walkthrough would be redundant.
However, there are two secret
areas that can be unlocked,
which will grant you unlimited
access to any of the game's
abilities if you visit them.
Those areas will be detailed
below. Also, if you need help
defeating Dyna Blade, please
check the Arena section where a
more detailed strategy will be
given.


============
Secret Areas
============

Trial Room 1
------------

Abilities: Beam, Bomb, Cutter,
Fighter, Fire, Hammer, Mirror,
Ninja, Plasma,
  Sword

How to Unlock: In Stage 2
(Mallow Castle), from where you
start off, head to
   the right. Go up the ladder w
   You will see a bunch of block
   to be out of reach. Get the M
   enemy and use it to hit the b
   revealed and hit the switch i


Trial Room 2
------------

Abilities: Copy, Ice, Jet,
Parasol, Stone, Suplex, Wheel,
Wing, Yo-yo

How to Unlock: In Stage 4 (Candy
Mountain), get to the room with
all the bomb
   blocks (after the room with t
   enter that room, there should
   and hit the switch to unlock 

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. The Great Cave Offensive 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this mode, you become lost in
a cave and must navigate your
way out of it. Along the way,
there are 60 treasures you can
pick up; they are optional, but
to get 100%, you need to find
them all. There are three main
areas in the cave, as designated
by the map on the touch screen,
with smaller areas tying the
main ones together. At the end
of each main area, there is a
boss character to face, and
plenty of mini-bosses in the
main areas.

On the menu screen, you can see
the treasures you have
accumulated thus far. The
treasure box is divided into
four sections to aid you in
figuring out what section holds
the treasures you might be
missing. On the touch screen
map, if you find all the
treasures in an area, there will
be a gold coin above that area.
There is a lot to explore in the
cave, some areas requiring some
puzzle-solving skills and
assistance from helpers, but if
you use this guide you will be
in great shape!


===========
Walkthrough
===========

Starting off, head right and go
through the door to the next
area.

Sub-Tree
--------

Here, head right and take the
first treasure from its chest,
which happens to be a Gold Medal
(1). Continue right and take the
lower path, then destroy the
stone statue to reveal a door.
Enter that room and float to the
right, then quickly swim
downward to the chest containing
a Gold Coin (2). Exit the room
and head right some more. You
should see 3 bomb blocks;
destroy only the left and right
ones, NOT the middle one! Drop
down through the opening and
head left, then destroy a bomb
block to reach the chest
containing the Whip (3). From
here, continue right and through
the door leading to the next
room.

In the next room, head right and
drop down to find a switch.
Before you hit it, get the Wing
ability from the bird enemies
here; it will help. Get through
the maze of switches by hitting
the switches in the segment you
are in, then quickly
flying/running through the
openings before they close. If
you can't get past, there will
be doors you can go through that
will bring you back to the
start. At the end of the
passage, open the chest to get a
Crystal Ball (4). Break the bomb
block above and head right, then
go down the ladder and drop
through the thin platform into
the water. Swim to the right and
upward, then at the first
platform, jump upward through
the blocks to find the chest
containing a Lucky Cat (5).

Drop into the water and continue
to the far right area. Before
entering the door, break the
bomb block to open up a shortcut
to the previous areas. Now, go
into the next room through the
door. In there, fly to the right
(do not step on the platforms
above the lava). Go up and to
the left past the swinging
enemy, then destroy the statue.
Head back around to where you
entered the room and open the
chest to get the Seiryu Sword
(6). Go right and drop through
the thin floor, then destroy the
bomb block to continue downward.
Head right to the chest
containing the Screw Attack (7).

Back out of this passage and fly
up to the gray blocks in the
ceiling. Destroy the statue
sticking out break the blocks
the right to find the chest with
Echigo Candy (8) inside. Save
your game in the room below if
needed (the sparkling doors are
save rooms, for future
reference). Continue to the
right and take the lower path to
two blocks in the ground. Break
them, as well as the stone
statue below, then continue up
and right briefly. Destroy
another gray block in the wall
to make the chest drop, then
head back left by the save room.
Below it, drop through two thin
ledges and swim to the right,
then head upward to the chest
containing a Phanto Mask (9).
Break the bomb block to the
right and swim upward, then go
through the door to the next
room.

Defeat the hammer mini-boss to
the right, then continue to the
upper-left area. You will find a
cannon there; jump in and shoot
directly upward to reach the
chest containing a Star Stone
(10). Head down the ladder and
continue to the right, going
up/down another set of ladders.
Pass a mirror and cutter enemy
and break the block in the wall,
then go through the passage to a
chest containing the Beast's
Fang (11). After that, go back
out and continue upward and to
the right, then go through the
door at the top of the area. In
the next room, head to the right
and obtain the Cutter ability by
eating the first enemy you meet
(it's obvious which one). Head
to the center of the room and
you will see bomb blocks on both
sides of the central platform.
Destroy them all, then open the
chest that falls to the platform
below to receive the Bandanna
(12).

Next, head to the upper-right
ledge and you will see a
platform held up by a rope. Cut
it with your Cutter ability,
then drop down and go right to a
chest containing the Seasons
Heart (13). Collect the 1-Up as
well, then go back out and head
through the door to the right.
In that room, you will find a
Max Tomato, as well as a few
abilities you can take for free
if you want (Jet, Mirror,
Sword). The Mirror ability will
be most useful in the battle
coming up. When you're ready, go
through the right door and you
will enter battle against the
Fatty Whale.

It will move back and forth,
either jumping or simply moving
to the left/right. It will jump
out and try to crush you,
causing a wave to emerge,
bringing with it random enemies
and rocks. Inhale them and spit
them at the whale to cause
damage (or use the Mirror
ability, if you took it). Once
you defeat the Fatty Whale, go
through the door to the right
and collect another Max Tomato.
Ride the mine cart to the other
end, then go through the door to
enter a new area.

Crystal
-------

In this new area, start by
dropping down into the water
below. Swim past the door you
see at first, and open the chest
to find a Dime (14). Break
through the blocks below the
chest to find another one,
containing a Glass Slipper (15).
Grab the 1-Up, then swim up to
the door and enter it. Enter the
save room if you want, otherwise
go through the left door below
it. In there, head left and hit
the switch to make a current of
water appear throughout the
area. Just below it, head to the
left and open the now-accessible
chest containing the Goblet
(16). Swim with the current to
the lower area, and you will
find another switch and a small
pit to the right. Hover over the
pit and blow water at the switch
to activate it. Quickly open the
chest as it falls into the pit
(keep pressing Up) to claim the
Saucepan (17).

From here, head to the left and
you will find a bomb enemy;
obtain the Crash ability from
it. Go left and use the ability
to hit the switch on the other
side of the wall, then pass
through the opening. Open the
chest by the switch to get the
Brass Knuckle (18). Head left
some more and jump into the
water. Hit the switch and swim
upward with the current,
stopping on a ledge to the left
to open another chest containing
the Amber Rose (19). On the
right ledge, get the Bomb
ability from the napalm enemy,
and destroy the bomb block in
the ground. Go through the
passage and enter the doorway
you reach. In there, open the
chests to find a Fish Fossil
(20) and Beast Fossil (21), then
go back to the previous room.

Now, break the bomb block and go
left again, then continue upward
and to the right. Defeat the
bomb mini-boss and open the
chest that falls into the room
to receive Machine Parts (22).
Once the mini-boss is gone,
break the bomb block to the
right, then go through the door
to the far right. Back in this
hub area, save your game if you
want, then go through the center
door below. Begin by swimming
all the way upward until you
surface, then head right and
swim through another narrow
passage until you spot a lone
block above. Break it and swim
upward to a chest containing the
Bucket (23). Continue to the
right, breaking the bomb block
below to form a current pushing
upward. At the surface, break
the bomb block to grab a Max
Tomato, then continue heading
right.

When you reach the section with
the moving platforms, ride to
the left, drop down and ride to
the right, then drop down again.
To the left, you will see some
blocks in the way. Break through
them as you ride to the left,
then open the chest there to
find a Power Paintbrush (24).
Head all the way to the right,
then drop into the water and
swim to the left. Follow the
currents all the way to the left
and you will come across another
chest containing the 100-Dollar
Coin (25). Once you have that,
go through the door to reach the
hub area once more. Save your
game if you desire, otherwise go
into the right doorway.

In that room, head upward and
hit a switch on the left ledge
to make some spikes and a chest
appear. Float around the spikes
and open the chest to find an
Ancient Gem (26). Then, drop to
the very bottom of the area and
head right. Destroy the various
blocks in the way, and you will
find another chest containing
the Falcon Helmet (27). Go back
to the left, then head up the
ladder and continue to the far
right. You will see three food
items below and a bomb block in
the ground; break it and drop
down to find a chest containing
a Cell Phone (28). Get out of
the passage and continue right,
making sure to inhale a tire
enemy to get the Wheel ability.
Go right and drop to the lower
area, then when you can either
go up or down, head downward.

Make your way right through the
windy passage, using the Wheel
ability to safely pass the spiky
enemies, then float over the
spikes and repeat until you
reach the end. Open the chest to
get the Truth Mirror (29).
Collect the Max Tomato, then
break the bomb block and fly
upward. Go through the door to
the left, and you will find
another Max Tomato, as well as
the Fighter, Wing, and Jet
abilities for the taking. I'd
recommend grabbing the Wing or
Fighter abilities for the battle
coming up. When you're ready, go
through the next door and head
right to engage in the Computer
Virus (RPG-style) battle. You
will battle a Slime, Puppet, and
Magician, one at a time. Avoid
their attacks, and unleash your
own when you have the chance
(inhale the stars from their
attacks to spit back, or take an
ability that appears on the side
periodically).

Once you defeat this virus, head
through the door to the right.
Collect the Max Tomato and ride
the mine cart to the other end,
then go through the door to
enter the third main area of the
stage.

Old Tower
---------

When you land on the ground
below after falling the
distance, head right and enter
the save room. Exit when you're
done, then go left to a doorway
and enter it. There, make your
way to the upper area of the
room by jumping through the thin
ledges. Bounce on the springs,
collecting the items overhead,
until you bounce through some
blocks to a door. Enter that
room and break the blocks to
reach the chest containing a
Star Tiara (30). Exit this room,
then drop to the lower area and
head to the far right corner. Go
into the room in the bottom-
right area; climb the ladders in
there to reach the following
room.

Make your way to the left in the
next room, avoiding the bombs
that fall from above. At the
end, you will spot a bomb block
in the ground. Get the Mirror
ability from the nearby enemy
and break the block, then head
through the passage below. When
you come to a cannon, use your
block (L or R buttons) to
reflect the cannonballs, then
continue until you reach a
chest. Open it to find the
Unicorn's Horn (34). Get out of
the passage, then go through the
door leading to the next area.
There, defeat the hammer mini-
boss (make sure you eat the
defeated mini-boss and take its
ability!), then go right and hit
the switch to make a chest fall.
Open it to get the Three-Star
Cane (35).

Now that you have the Hammer
ability, it's time to backtrack
a few rooms. When you get to the
first room of the tower (the one
with the cannons and springs),
head all the way left and enter
that room. You will see a stake
in the middle of the room; pound
it and go into the room that
appears below. Go down the two
elevators and enter the room at
the bottom. There, get the Fire
ability from one of the enemies
here, then enter the upper door.
There, go right and defeat the
mini-boss to make a chest
appear; open it to find a Koopa
Shell (31).

From here, head into the next
room to the right. There, create
a helper from your Fire ability,
and break the bomb block in the
wall. Go through the passage and
move near the underwater fuse to
have your helper light it (his
Fire ability works underwater,
unlike your own). Jump into the
cannon and you will be shot to
the other half of the room.
There, open the chest to receive
the Falchion (32). Grab the Max
Tomato and head left, breaking
the bomb block to make another
passage. Float up and enter the
lower door to the left. Swim to
the left, moving to the lower
area so that you can open the
chest containing the Warrior
Shield (33) as you pass it. Head
through the door on the left
side and you will be back in the
room with the Fire enemies.

Head through the left door, then
go back up the elevators and
enter the room at the top. Break
the bomb blocks and head through
the next door to reach the
cannon/spring room again. This
time, go right and exit the
tower through the first door you
come to. Back outside, go into
the far right room and save your
game if you want. Then, go to
the tower and float upward a
little bit to find a second
opening. Enter the tower through
that second door this time. In
this fiery room, head left and
enter the door there. Head
right, up, left, up, and right
again to find a moving platform.
Ignore it for now and enter the
room to the right. There, you
will find a maze of Sleep
abilities and a wind current to
get past. Run and jump your way
to the right carefully, then
open the chest to receive a Mr.
Saturn (38).

Head back to the left and exit
this room, then ride the moving
platform upward. Break the
blocks and continue going upward
through the room. Float along
the left wall and you will find
an opening which holds a chest
containing the Armor (39). To
the right of this chest, head
through the door in the middle
area. Use the springs to reach
the top area, where you will
find a chest containing a
Treasure Box (40), ironically
enough. Go around to claim the
Max Tomato, then head back down
and out of this room. Continue
heading upward to the top of the
room, then head into the left
room. As soon as you enter the
room, quickly jump to the left
and open the chest to obtain the
Mannequin (41), as the room
scrolls to the right. As soon as
you have the treasure, exit the
room and head across to the
right side, and enter that room
now.

In here, head upward and enter
the door at the top (ignore the
cracked blocks for now). Grab
the Max Tomato, and take the
Wing ability (it's the most
useful one ahead). You also have
the Ninja and Plasma abilities
to choose from in this room.
When you're ready, go through
the right door and meet the
Chameleo Arm for battle. It is a
fast mover and will try to eat
you, so be careful! It will also
try to disappear, but you can
see where it's headed (and hurt
it, too). When it spits out
glowing balls, spit them back at
the boss to cause damage. Once
the battle is over, grab the Max
Tomato and exit to the right.

In this next room, make your way
to the upper-left area, and
enter that room. If you have the
Wing ability still, it will come
very much in handy here (if not,
go back and get it from the room
before the Chameleo Arm fight).
Get to the left side, then hit
the switch and quickly fly
upward through the thin
platforms and you will see a
hidden door in the center of the
room. Enter it and you will be
on a windy perch. Open the chest
there to get the Model Ship
(44). Grab the Max Tomato below,
then go back inside and continue
upward. At the top of the tower,
enter the room you come to.
Freefall to a platform below and
to the right, then enter the
door there.

You will be back in the room
with all the cannons you can
use. Get to the upper-right door
this time, and enter it. In that
room, get the Jet ability from
one of the enemies, and use the
exhaust from the jets to light
the candles. As you head upward,
light the candles and you will
be able to spot a hidden door in
the middle of the area. Enter
that room and open the chest to
get a Sun Ring (45). Head back
inside and continue to the top
of the tower. Enter the door at
the top, then fall through the
sky to another platform below.
Go through the door on the
platform and you will be in the
cannon room yet again. This
time, go directly upward and
enter the room there. You will
now be outside the main tower;
head into the right room and
save your game.

Now, go back to the left and
float upward, and enter that
door again. This time around,
head to the right. Break the
bomb block and run across the
disintegrating blocks to reach a
chest containing Tut's Mask
(37). Break the bomb block to
the right and head through the
passage, then continue right and
through the door into another
room. Get the Yo-yo ability from
the yo-yo enemy, then use the
ability to break the bomb block
in the ground below. Ride the
slider through the spikes to the
left, then open the chest where
you end up to find a Broken Bowl
(36). Head through the door to
the left and continue onward to
the next area. Defeat the group
of enemies in there, then
continue to the following room
and defeat a hammer mini-boss.

In the room after this, get the
Cutter ability, then create a
helper from it. Once you have
the helper, go back a room and
fight the hammer mini-boss
again, and obtain its Hammer
ability after the fight. Now, go
back to where you just got the
Cutter helper, and continue
through the next few rooms until
you reach the cannon/spring
room. Head left and go through
the first doorway you pass to
get outside again. Save your
game if you want, then go left
and float upward, and enter that
room yet again. Head left into
the next room, then make your
way all the way around and
upward to the very top of the
area. Enter the right door at
the top.

Here, head upward until you
reach the cracked wall we
ignored earlier. Break it, then
go right and into the water.
Break the cracked blocks
underwater with your hammer,
then break the bomb block to
open the shortcut. Go right and
up, and enter the next room. Run
all the way to the right and
enter the door you find there
(it's important that you still
have the Cutter helper following
you). When you reach the next
room, go directly upward and
enter the door there. Defeat yet
another batch of enemies as you
head upward to the door above.

Enter that room, then defeat the
enemies and head right. You will
finally reach a platform held up
by rope; have your helper cut
it. Go down and pound the stake
with your hammer to reveal a
hidden room; enter it. An
alternate method (which avoids
the Hammer helper) would be to
obtain the Plasma ability and
shoot a fully charged shot at
the bomb block, as it passes
through walls.

Grab the Mirror ability above,
then go left and block to
reflect the laser enemy's beam
to defeat it. Then, float upward
and open the chest to receive
the King's Cape (43). Exit this
room and break the bomb block,
then continue right and enter
that room. Get the Stone ability
from the enemies here, then drop
to the bottom area and enter
that door. Head left and break
the bomb block you see, then use
your Stone ability to sink in
the water. At the bottom,
quickly open the chest to obtain
the Gold Crown (42). Swim back
to the surface, then jump to the
sides and head to the very
bottom of this room. Go through
the door there and you will land
outside the save room once more.

Save if you want, then head to
the far left and enter that
room. In there, ride the mine
cart to the left and enter the
door at the end to reach the
next main area of the great
cave.

Garden
------

In this new area, start by going
left. Hit the switch to open a
hole in the wall. Avoid the
enemies, then enter that room
and open the chest to receive
the Gold Watering Can (46). Exit
the room and continue left into
the following room. There, grab
the Jet ability from the
available selection. Hold B to
charge up the Jet's ability,
then when it's fully charged,
press L or R to block, holding
the charge. Walk to the right,
then while holding Right, drop
through the thin platform and
press B to shoot to the right.
Hold Down while doing so the
wind gust pushes you against the
wall and not back to where you
started. If you did it right,
you will be able to fall to a
chest containing the Katana
(47). Fly back upward and to the
left, then drop through the thin
platforms to reach the door
below.

Enter the next room and save
your game if you want. Then, go
into the bottom- left door and
enter that room. Head up the
hills to the left until you
reach a grassy patch. At that
point, go to where the waterfall
below you is, then press Down to
fall through. Open the chest
below to get the Charm (48). Fly
back upward and get the Jet
ability if you don't still have
it. Then, go left some more and
light the middle fuse with your
ability's fumes. Quickly jump
into the middle cannon (it's the
one atop the hill to the left).
In the area you get shot into,
you will see four bomb blocks.
Destroy the top three but leave
the bottom one; that way you can
get to the chest as it falls,
and claim the Xmas Tree (49).

Leave the room and return to the
three cannons. On the left side,
break the blocks and the bomb
block to clear the way to the
left cannon's fuse. Head right
and hit the right fuse box, then
quickly go left and jump into
the leftmost cannon. When you
arrive in the new area, head
upward and obtain the Wing
ability. In this area, the
hidden passages are signified by
stars in the clouds. Get to the
door directly below the Wing
ability, and you will find two
switches. Hit the one on the
right to make the chest fall;
open it to get Kong's Barrel
(50).

Exit this room, then fly to the
upper-right area and go through
the passage to another door. In
that room, stand on the middle
of the platform and ride it
upward. At the top of the room,
jump to the chest and open it to
get Ramia's Scale (51). Go back
around and exit the room, then
continue through the upper-left
passage to where the Plasma
ability is. Fall through a
passage directly below the
Plasma ability, then fly upward
through an adjacent passage and
enter the door. Break the block
above and open the chest to get
the Shiny Bamboo (52). Exit the
room and drop through the
passage, then head to the upper-
left area. Drop down after you
pass the green fence-looking
area, and head downward. Go
right through the passage by the
Parasol ability, and enter the
door there. As soon as you enter
the room, drop below the door
and open the chest to get the
Spirit Charm (54).

Leave this room and head back
through the passage, then fly
upward and to the right. You
should see the Plasma ability
icon and a wall directly to the
left of it. Fly upward along the
left side of the wall and enter
the room there. Grab the Wheel
ability in that room and create
a helper from it, then hop onto
the helper. If you want to dash,
press B. To the right, you will
find a switch. Hit it, then dash
to the right atop your helper.
When you reach the lower area,
jump as you reach the right
side, jumping over the ramp and
continuing right before the
opening closes. If you make it
through, open the chest to get a
Tire (53).

Next, drop through the thin
ledge and dash to the left.
Break the bomb block and climb
the ladder, then exit the room.
Drop through the passage and
head all the way left to a warp
star, then jump onto it to ride
away into the distance. When you
arrive in this hub area, save
your game if you like, then
enter the door to the right.
There will be blocks and cannons
to shoot through them in here.
Go right and shoot directly to
the right, then shoot downward
at the next cannon. Open the
chest in the bottom-right corner
to receive the Pegasus Wing
(55). Make your way to the left
and downward, then to the lower-
right door.

Go through the door to reach the
next room. There, head down the
hills and defeat the bug mini-
boss to open the way to a chest
below. Open said chest to get
the Raccoon Doll (56). Continue
to the left and down another
hill, then enter the next room.
Head to the left until you reach
a sectioned off area with a bomb
block. Break the bomb block and
open the chest when it falls out
to get the Shell Whistle (57).
Head left and get the Crash
ability from the bomb, then use
it to hit the switch below. Swim
through the opening and head
left to find a chest containing
the Orichalcum (58).

Jump onto the warp star and you
will be in the central hub for
this area once more. Save your
game if you wish, then enter the
bottom middle door. In that
room, go right and get the
Cutter ability. Then, go back to
the left and climb down the
ladder. Cut the rope holding the
left platform, then head right
and drop through the thin ledge
to the bottom area. Drop through
another thin ledge to reach the
chest containing the Platinum
Ring (59). Go back through the
passage and up the ladder, then
head all the way right to the
door there, and enter that room.

Make your way to the very bottom
of the room by going around the
springs. When you reach the
door, don't go in just yet.
Instead, drop through the thin
floor and float downward so you
don't hit the spring. Break the
blocks to the side and get
through the passage to reach the
final chest containing the
Triforce (60)! Bounce back to
the door and go through it.
Collect the Max Tomato and you
will find three abilities you
can take (Bomb, Ice, Parasol).
Take the Parasol, as it can help
you stay safe in this last
fight. When you're ready, go to
the next room and face the Wham
Bam Rock in battle.

This creature attacks primarily
by swatting or pounding at you
with its rocky hands. Get out of
the way when it hovers overhead,
then attack when it crashes to
the ground. With the Parasol
ability, you can float with it
overhead and still cause damage
to the boss. When you defeat
this creature, head left into
the next room. Collect the Max
Tomato and ride the mine cart up
the hills, then ride the
elevators in the next room. At
the top of the shaft, go through
the door and break the bomb
block overhead. Float upward
through the passage, then go
left and jump onto the warp star
to successfully complete the
Great Cave Offensive!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Revenge of the Meta Knigh
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this game, you are sent to
thwart the Meta Knight's plans
aboard his ship, the Halberd.
There are 7 chapters in this
mode, or levels, which chronicle
this struggle. The stages
themselves are generally simple
and require minimal effort to
get through. The bosses are
different than what you've seen
before, but they will be
detailed in the Arena section.
Bosses in this game include Twin
Woods, Main Cannon #2, Heavy
Lobster, Reactor, and Meta
Knight. After the finale with
Meta Knight, you then have to
escape the falling ship aboard a
Wheelie (Wheel helper) within 45
seconds. Simply dash to the
right and jump to avoid pits and
walls, and you will succeed
here.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Milky Way Wishes -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this game, you have to visit
seven different planets in order
to gain their star power. The
key difference in this mode is
that you cannot gain reusable
abilities by inhaling/eating
your enemies like you usually
would (you can still get Cook,
Crash, and Mike by inhaling, of
course). There are things called
Copy Essences Deluxe, which are
those icons which give you the
displayed ability when you touch
them. When you find these
throughout the levels, you will
have that ability permanently,
and can switch to it by using
either the touch screen, or
pressing start and selecting it
on the menu.

On the map where you can pick a
planet to visit, there will be
circles on the bottom of the
screen when you hover over a
planet. They will turn yellow as
you find the abilities on that
planet; when you have them all,
they will all be yellow. The
seven main planets are readily
visible, but there is also a
hidden star between two of the
planets, which appears as a "?"
when you hover over it.


===========
Walkthrough
===========

Floria - Grass Planet
---------------------

Abilities Found: Ice, Fighter,
Cutter

This planet is unique in that
there are four seasons, and the
season changes each time you go
through a door. You start the
level in spring, and they go in
order to summer, fall, and
winter. Starting off, go through
the door atop the ladder until
you get to winter, then go left
and enter the door that appears.
Inside, get the Ice ability.
Exit the room and head through
the door atop the ladder again
until you get to fall. Then,
continue to the right until you
reach a pool of water. Go
through the door above it to
reach winter again, then break
through the frozen pool and
enter the door below. In there,
grab the Fighter ability.

Leave the room, then continue to
the right. Break through the
frozen waterfall and pass the
first door you see. Float over
the tree stump and enter the
door on the right side of it.
When you get to summer, enter
the door that appears in the
tree stump to the left. Grab the
Cutter ability inside, then exit
the room. Continue right until
you can't go any further, then
go through the door to reach the
fall season. Finally, jump over
the tree stump and go through
the final door to enter battle
with Twin Woods. Defeat them,
then the stage is complete.


Aquarius - Water Planet
-----------------------

Abilities Found: Beam, Parasol,
Sword

Starting off, enter the door to
the right of where you arrive.
In the next area, make your way
to the right by swimming and
walking across the platforms in
between. When you reach three
bomb blocks, break them and swim
down through the passage to the
right, clearing another bomb
block in the way. At the other
end, you will see a wall with a
bomb block in the right side of
it. Break it to make a door
appear atop that platform;
surface and enter that room to
get the Parasol ability. Exit
the room and continue right past
the cannon, and enter the next
room.

In here, swim to the right while
avoiding the spiky enemies, then
continue right onto dry land.
Swim through the passage until
you reach the end, then go
through the door into the
following room. Drop into the
middle of this next room and
avoid the enemies as you drop
through the thin floors. On the
bottom platform, enter the door
there. Go right and defeat the
enemies, then break through the
blocks below you at the end (the
Parasol ability helps here).
Continue to the left below and
defeat a mini-boss to obtain the
Sword ability.

Now, make your way back out of
this room. From here, go into
the water and swim to the lower-
right area to find a second
door; enter that one. Here, you
will have to deal with a watery
maze of sorts. From where you
begin, go right and down, then
to the right. Head downward
again and to the right. When you
have the chance, swim upward to
obtain the Beam ability. Go
through the door to return to
the entrance of the room. Take
the same path you took to get to
the ability, but instead of
going up, head down and to the
right. Follow the passage to a
more open area, then pass the
door and head right some more.
Swim downward and to the right,
then follow the passage to some
dry land. Run to the right and
exit through the door. Defeat
the Fatty Whale boss, and you
will be done here!


Skyhigh - Wind Planet
---------------------

Abilities Found: Jet, Wheel,
Wing

When you arrive here, enter the
door to the right. Make your way
to the right until you enter the
more narrow passage. You will
see a block overhead; break
through it and float through the
opening to a door. In that room,
collect the Jet ability, then
head back out. Continue to the
right and you will see a fuse
leading to the right. Light it
with your Jet ability's exhaust,
then quickly head up the hill to
the right. Avoid the enemy and
jet to the right (literally) to
make it to the cannon in time.
In the room you get shot off to,
collect the Wheel ability.

Leave this room, then go right
to another door leading to the
following area. In there, you
will see three doors. The
following bunch of rooms are
interconnected, but I will give
you the most direct route to the
ability and the exit. From the
room you start off in, enter the
following doors: middle, left,
right, middle. You will come to
a room with the Wing ability if
you did it correctly. Exit the
room where you found the
ability, then enter the right
door twice to reach the final
door. Take the Max Tomato and go
through the final door to face
Kracko again. After you beat the
boss, the level will be over.


??? - Hidden Star
-----------------

Abilities Found: Copy

This area is not actually a
planet, but a star. On the map,
it blinks just north of Skyhigh,
near Cavius. When you enter that
area, head to the right and
avoid the enemies. In the second
room, continue to the right and
avoid more of the enemies. In
the third and final room,
collect the Copy ability and hop
on the warp star to leave the
area.


Hotbeat - Flame Planet
----------------------

Abilities Found: Fire, Suplex

When you arrive in this lava-
filled stage, float your way to
the right. Head upward and you
will find a cannon. Break the
bomb block above to form a lava
waterfall, then shoot to the
left with the cannon. Go up and
right to find a lollipop which
grants invincibility. With its
power, quickly go back to the
left and down, and float up that
lava waterfall to a hidden door.
Enter that room and float your
way past the enemies to the door
at the top. Go through to the
following room and collect the
Fire ability there before
continuing out to the next area.

From where you appear, simply go
right through another door to a
new room. Head to the right by
riding the mine carts throughout
the area. Be on the lookout for
some cracked blocks above one of
the carts. When you get to that
point, break through the blocks
with the Wing ability and enter
the room above. Head to the
right and defeat the mini-boss
to earn the Suplex ability. Exit
this room and ride the mine cart
to the right some more. When you
reach the pillar of lava, float
over it and enter the door at
the other side.

In the next room, head down and
to the right, and you will see
some cannons. Shoot your way
through the room by using the
cannons, then enter the final
door at the end. Defeat the
Chameleo Arm boss, then you will
be done here.


Cavius - Cave Planet
--------------------

Abilities Found: Bomb, Hammer,
Stone

As soon as you land here, enter
the door in front of you. Follow
the path around the level until
you reach the Cook mini-boss.
Defeat him, then head all the
way to the right (don't go down
ladders or anything) to find a
Bomb mini-boss. Defeat it and
grab the Bomb ability that
appears. Grab the Max Tomato and
head down and to the left, then
go down and right some more.
When you reach a small pit, drop
into it and head right to a
Hammer mini-boss. Defeat him and
you can claim the Hammer ability
as your own.

From here, head right and hit
the stake with your hammer to
collect some food and an extra
life. To the right, climb down
the ladder and head left at the
bottom. Defeat the Suplex mini-
boss and go through the door
that appears to reach the next
room. In here, head to the top
of the room and break the bomb
block in the ceiling to make
water flow in the room. Float up
through the opening you just
made and hit the switch on the
platform. Now, follow the flow
of water downward to the bottom
of the room and enter the door
before the gate comes back down.
There, collect the Stone
ability, as well as the
invincibility lollipop and the
extra life, then exit the room.

From here, head upward and to
the far right. Follow the path
as it winds back and forth,
defeating the enemies along the
way. At the very end, go through
the door to meet the Wham Bam
Rock in battle. Defeat it, then
you will be on your way once
more.


Mekkai - Machine Planet
-----------------------

Abilities Found: Plasma, Yo-yo

When you arrive on this planet,
go through the first door to
enter the area. Here, continue
to the right, going from ledge
to ledge. When you reach the
cannons, shoot your way to the
right, through a cracked wall.
At the other side, float to the
right and break a bomb block to
destroy the structure
surrounding the door. Grab the
invincibility lollipop that
lands in front of the door, and
enter the next room.

While invincible, head to the
right past the enemies until you
see a door in midair. Run to the
right, then float upward with
the wind so you can enter that
door. In that room, ride the
elevator to the bottom, then
enter the room there to obtain
the Yo-yo ability. Exit the room
and fly up the left wind shaft,
then return to the previous
room. Continue to the right,
hitting the switches so you can
get through the gates (using the
Yo-yo ability helps a lot, as it
can hit switches through walls).
When you reach the door, go
through it to the following
area.

In this room, ride the elevator
upward, fighting various mini-
bosses on each floor if you
choose to stop on the way. Ride
to the very top floor and head
left, and defeat the mini-boss
there to get the Plasma ability.
Ride the elevator down one level
and go right, and defeat the
Hammer mini-boss to reveal the
final door. Go through it and
defeat the Heavy Lobster boss to
complete this planet.


Halfmoon - Eternal Planet
-------------------------

Abilities Found: Mirror, Ninja

When you arrive here, bounce off
the stars and enter the door to
reach the first main area.
There, head to the right,
defeating the enemies you
encounter along the way. When
you spot the warp star in an
enclosed area below, go against
the wind to break the blocks to
the right of it, and ride the
warp star to safety further
ahead. When you land, go through
the door leading to the next
room. Here, ride the mine carts
and progress through the room
until you come to a stake in the
road. Jump out of the cart at
this point and drop through the
thin floors to find a block
below. Break through it and
enter the hidden door below it.
Collect the Mirror ability, then
exit the room.

Head back upward and ride the
mine carts to the right some
more. At the end of the line, go
through the door into the next
room. There, hop onto the warp
star to quickly fly through the
room safely. When you land,
defeat the mini- bosses and go
through the door that appears
once you beat them. Fly upward
through the next room, being
careful of the hazards and
enemies along the way. When you
spot a door blocked off by bomb
blocks, break the bomb blocks
and enter that room. Collect the
Ninja ability in here, then
leave the room and continue
moving upward.

At the top of the room, go
through the door and you will
have to do battle with the
Computer Virus. Defeat the three
enemies here, then your job on
this planet is done. You should
also have all 19 abilities if
you followed this guide all the
way through!

If you completed all of the
other planets, a new entity
called the Galactic Nova will be
in the upper-right corner of the
map. Go there and you will
witness a scene between the
giant object and Marx, before
Kirby gains a starship to
intervene in their plans. Head
back to Popstar and you will
find the Galactic Nova clashing
with the sun and moon. When you
are ready, enter the entity.


Galactic Nova
-------------

In here, you will have control
of Kirby's starship in a side-
view, scrolling action scene.
Maneuver your ship around any
obstacles in the way (hitting
anything depletes your health),
and defeat any enemies in the
way. At the end, you will reach
the Galactic Nova Nucleus boss.
Destroy the nodes as you
approach them, flying through
the openings when applicable to
avoid taking damage. Once you
destroy all of the nodes, the
nucleus will be destroyed. All
is not over yet though, since
now you land on a moon and do
battle with Marx. You have all
of your abilities at your
disposal here, though I
recommend the Bomb ability for
this.

Once you defeat Marx, the
Galactic Nova will be destroyed
and peace will be restored to
Popstar, thus completing Milky
Way Wishes!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  10. Revenge of the King -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this mode, you are once again
sent through the original
Kirby's Dream Land levels
(Spring Breeze mode). The
difference this time is that the
levels are designed differently,
the levels are a bit longer, and
the enemies and bosses are much
tougher! There is also an
additional level added before
King Dedede's castle, taking
place in the sky above the
castle against the blimp boss
Kabula. You use the starship
once again for this battle, so
basically avoid the incoming
attacks while continually
holding B to shoot at the boss.

In the final level, you have to
fight a series of mini-bosses
before meeting King Dedede once
again, this time as Masked
Dedede. The main difference is
that he has a larger and
electrified hammer, but he also
has new abilities to watch out
for. You are also given a hammer
of your own to fight with, if
you want to take it. Once you
beat him, this mode is complete.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  11. Meta Knightmare Ultra -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this mode, you get to play as
Meta Knight! That said, you
won't have access to the typical
abilities Kirby has at his
disposal. Meta Knight comes with
four of his own abilities, which
are powered by defeating enemies
and gaining the orbs they drop.
You play through five levels,
which consist of all of the main
games played up to this point.
There are some advantages to
having Meta Knight as your
character, but you're stuck
fighting with a sword and his
special abilities only. That's
basically the gist of this mode;
you play the other modes with
Meta Knight.

    Level 1: Spring Breeze
    Level 2: Dyna Blade
    Level 3: The Great Cave Offe
    Level 4: Revenge of the Meta
    Level 5: Milky Way Wishes (n


=========
Abilities
=========

Heal
    Cost: 10 points
    Description: Fully recover y

Knight Call
    Cost: 2 points
    Description: Create a Blade 

Mach Tornado
    Cost: 30 points
    Description: Unleash a torna
   strongly damaging bosses.

Meta Quick
    Cost: 8 points
    Description: Speed up Meta K


============
Final Battle
============

As a bit of a twist, you face
the ultimate boss at the end of
Milky Way Wishes. Instead of
Marx, you fight a new boss known
as the Galacta Knight. It is a
very strong boss, with all of
Meta Knight's abilities and then
some. He can do the typical
sword attacks, as well as
shooting beams all around him
(you'll have to fly around with
the beams to avoid getting hit),
or flying around as a tornado.
When Galacta Knight moves to the
side, get away since he will
unleash a giant cyclone across
the area. When he flies
offscreen, several regular
enemies will appear; defeat them
for added points so you can heal
yourself (and you will need it,
trust me). This boss can take
quite a beating, too! Later in
the battle, Galacta Knight will
do some different moves,
involving summoning fire pillars
from below and shooting beams
from his sword.

Be cautious and heal when
necessary; this is the best way
to take on this boss. Once you
win, you will have completed
Meta Knightmare Ultra!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  12. Helper to Hero  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this mode, you fight through
a selection of 14 boss battles
using not Kirby, but the
Helpers! You can pick any of the
19 main Helpers, as well as the
Sword Knight (Meta Knight's
Helper from Meta Knightmare
Ultra). Once you have selected
your character, you will go
through Arena-style matches
against the bosses, one at a
time. In between matches, you
will be in a hub area where you
can heal with a limited supply
of Max Tomatoes. If you die
during a match, that's it; you
either go all the way or nothing
at all. If you beat this mode
with a given Helper, there will
be a gold coin next to their
icon on the character select
screen. If you beat this mode
with every helper, you will
unlock Movie 00 in the Theater
section.

The bosses you will face in this
mode are the following:

1. Whispy Woods
2. Mid-Boss All-Stars 1
3. Kracko
4. King Dedede
5. Dyna Blade
6. Fatty Whale
7. Chameleo-Arm
8. Mid-Boss All-Stars 2
9. Twin Woods
10. Heavy Lobster
11. Computer Virus
12. Meta Knight
13. Wham Bam Rock
14. Wham Bam Jewel

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  13. The Arena -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this mode, you get to do
battle with the various bosses
of the game, one after another.
In between matches, you go to a
hub area where you can pick from
a couple of random abilities
provided, or take a Max Tomato.
Not only should you focus on
beating the bosses quickly, but
you should take minimal damage
as well, since your health
replenishers are limited (you
only get five Max Tomatoes,
though they are sometimes
randomly replaced by regular
tomatoes for minimal recovery).


===============
Boss Strategies
===============

NOTE: In the "Found" section,
this will detail where you
initially meet that
 particular boss prior to the Ar

Chameleo Arm
Found: The Great Cave Offensive
    Strategy: This chameleon bos
   attack. When it rolls backwar
   since it will stick out its t
   to attack. When it jumps onto
   orbs at you; inhale those and
   the creature. If you eat thos
   Paint ability, which causes d
   Arm's color and makes it visi
   then camouflage into the wall
   watch out. If you come to the
   you can continue to attack wh
   damage.

Computer Virus
Found: The Great Cave Offensive
    Strategy: This battle puts y
   at a time, complete with wind
   There are two versions of thi
   it is against a Slime, Puppet
   against a Magician, Evil Knig
   attack the enemies when they 
   Watch the message box above, 
   the enemy is up to, so that y
   R (it helps a lot, trust me).
   appear on the sides whenever 
   in attacking these enemies. O
   enemy, the next one will come
   will receive a bunch of usele
   windows close.

Dyna Blade
    Found: Dyna Blade
    Strategy: Here is the giant 
   after. To attack you, it can 
   it can hop around, and it can
   across the screen, duck down 
   inhape the stars from when it
   to spit back at it to attack.
   the distance, jump to avoid g
      towards the screen.

Fatty Whale
Found: The Great Cave Offensive
    Strategy: This giant whale c
   even starts off the battle do
   It can move slowly across the
   blowhole to fall on you (inha
   can spin across the area, and
   crush you. When it flops into
   wave across the area, causing
   sure to spit those out at the
   appears.

Galactic Nova Nucleus
    Found: Milky Way Wishes
    Strategy: In this battle, yo
   around you, there will be a n
   back and forth within them. S
   starship's gun to destroy the
   while, the room will rotate i
   the impression of moving back
   don't hit the nodes, as you w
   won't take damage from touchi
   destroy all of the nodes, the

Heavy Lobster
    Found: Revenge of the Meta K
    Strategy: This giant robot c
   dash forward, going off the s
   again. When it opens its claw
   shoot out a smaller version o
   blob; the latter two can be s
   you eat the blob, you will ge
   blind the boss and change its
   jump in the air, so watch out
   lot of time in the air avoidi
   it's safe to inhale its offsp

King Dedede
    Found: Spring Breeze
    Strategy: Here, you get to d
   final boss of Spring Breeze. 
   attacks, including trying to 
   and hitting you with his hamm
   try and crush you, and even i
   around briefly. When Dedede j
   you can inhale the stars that
   cause damage. Be careful, sin
   hammer once, and other times 
   he inhales you, he will spit 

Kracko
    Found: Spring Breeze
    Strategy: This is the infamo
   date. It swoops back and fort
   enemy down to attack you. Inh
   spit it back out to cause dam
   can shoot beams in all direct
   you and shoot beams downward,
   the room while shooting beams
   if you touch it, you will be 
   stunned.

Lololo & Lalala
    Found: Spring Breeze
    Strategy: In this battle, th
   sides, where these two bosses
   across the room. You can atta
   spitting them at either boss 
   same health meter, so each in
   amount of health on the bar. 
   enemies across the area, so t
   through the thin platforms to

Main Cannon #2
    Found: Revenge of the Meta K
    Strategy: When battling this
   you and drop bombs from above
   its smaller cannon below. Aft
   it will swing back to reload,
   that perch and attack without
   position and have the right a
   the bombs and cannonballs and
   cause damage. It can become r
   attacks happening all at once
   can avoid them all and return
   the claw that drops bombs on 
   and hold you in front of the 

Marx
    Found: Milky Way Wishes
    Strategy: The final boss of 
   the Arena lineup. It will tel
   periodically to drop a spiked
   various directions, which you
   its body. When Marx flies hig
   balls land, as spiked vines w
   stay out of their way. When y
   move out of the way quickly o
   you. When he sits on the side
   his strong beam attack. If yo
   Bomb ability, it will help a 
  from a distance is key here.

Meta Knight
    Found: Revenge of the Meta K
    Strategy: When you enter the
   as well; you don't HAVE to ta
   other ability, it would be he
   will disappear after 20 secon
   anyway. Meta Knight attacks l
   sword swipes directly in fron
   shoot beams from his sword, a
   across the room. Try to keep 
   prepares the cyclone (you can
   and stops moving briefly). Th
   to get in its face too much u

Reactor
    Found: Revenge of the Meta K
    Strategy: This boss is compo
   serves as the main power sour
   directly, but must rely on a 
   above periodically. It will a
   if you float in front of the 
   crystal when you get out of t
   In between these attacks, box
   fire upward, so be sure to mo
   cannon will also shoot a fier
   well. It will take just a few
   destroy the crystal and the r

Twin Woods
    Found: Revenge of the Meta K
    Strategy: This is exactly li
   there are two of them, one on
   air balls across at you, and 
   from the trees. When there is
   the ability to spin around, s
   from the branches overhead. T
 spit them back at their faces.

Wham Bam Rock
Found: The Great Cave Offensive
    Strategy: This boss consists
   rocky hand that attacks you. 
   a fist, but opens up on its w
   you're too close. Whenever th
   the stars to spit back and ca
   you, causing a lot of damage 
   pointing gesture, rocks will 
   Keeping your distance and att
  will help you succeed here.

Whispy Woods
    Found: Spring Breeze
    Strategy: You are up against
   past Kirby games. It shakes a
   as well as spiky enemies. It 
   directly. After a while, it w
   of stuff to fall from above; 
   the apples to spit back at th
   Make sure you jump when attac
   need to hit the face to cause

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  14. The True Arena  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========
Overview
========

In this second version of the
Arena, you are in for a REAL
fight! Your opponents consist of
the tougher versions of the
Spring Breeze bosses (the ones
you fought in the Revenge of the
King game), a variety of the
tougher mini-bosses, and the
final four bosses of the game
(Masked Dedede, Wham Bam Jewel,
Galacta Knight, and a boss
making its first appearance
here, Marx Soul). There are only
10 matchups; the first six can
be at random, but the final four
are the same every time.

In addition, there are NO Max
Tomatoes in the hub area in
between matches. That's right,
you get five regular food items
and nothing more! You do get to
take an ability at the very
start, just like the original
Arena, and are offered another
ability in between each match
(technically you get two, but
since one is always the Sleep
ability, you only get one). One
other glitch that should be
noted is that if you have a
Helper going into the Kabula
fight, you will LOSE them after
the battle! It will take a lot
of practice, but these final
battles are doable.


===============
Boss Strategies
===============

Galacta Knight
    Strategy: This is a much str
   very quickly notice. It wield
   that come with it, as well as
   offscreen, several regular en
   Galacta Knight will appear ag
   encased in a tornado, so stay
   floats in the middle area and
   direction that it moves in, a
   avoid getting hit by it. Be c
   the screen, since a giant cyc
   lots of damage if you are in 
   abilities, after certain swor
   behind that you can use to sp

Kabula
    Strategy: For this battle, y
   enemy blimp. Kabula will cont
   shooting three cannonballs to
   enemies. Your starship's atta
   cannonballs, luckily. When Ka
   out of the way since it is ab
   the screen. It will also open
   bullets that you cannot shoot
   get out of the way. Your best
   holding a button down to cons
   you can kill it as quickly as

Kracko Jr's Revenge
    Strategy: Here, you battle t
   Breeze. It is basically a wea
   but it is still electrified a
   Kracko Jr. moves quickly, but
   around the perimeter of the s
   formation across the screen. 
   enemy which you can inhale to
   ability to attack with. Try n
   be electrocuted!

Kracko's Revenge
    Strategy: Like its smaller c
   faster than its original form
   Beam enemies now and then for
   own beam attacks. It does a s
   after dropping a Beam enemy, 
   it. Kracko also likes to move
   underneath it, so float above
   Jr., do not come into direct 
   electrocuted all the same.

Lololo & Lalala's Revenge
    Strategy: In this battle, th
   ends, where the bosses will e
   forth. Since they are both th
   bar, so each one only has hal
   To attack, you still have to 
   then spit them at the bosses 
   also push spiky enemies acros
   appear without being pushed b
   jump through the thin floors 
   The lone spiky enemies move s
   that to your advantage when m

Marx Soul
    Strategy: This is the FINAL 
   version of Marx. It shares ma
   patterns, but adds a few new 
   Marx Soul can split into two 
   three attacks can occur. He c
   come from both sides to attac
   split into two colored orbs, 
   above (you can eat them to ge
   attack will summon a black ho
   health meter if you get sucke
   screen to avoid it! As for Ma
   unleashes two rounds of cutte
   even more seeds when he goes 
   emerge briefly. When you see 
   move around quickly or else t
   more damage to you. You can i
   out to cause damage; you must
   actual damage. It is highly r
   with an ability, namely the H
   Once you defeat Marx Soul, yo
   Arena!

Masked Dedede
    Strategy: This version of Ki
   electrified hammer, and an el
   you can't fly too high up or 
   Dedede can now spin rapidly b
   can jump multiple times in a 
   and come down quickly, sendin
   direction. Dedede still has h
   smash you with his hammer, wh
   back at him to cause damage. 
   the end of his hammer to shoo
   you; when it's the fire attac
   attack if you have an ability

Wham Bam Jewel
    Strategy: This boss is very 
   main difference here is that 
   powerful attacks. It will sti
   from above, opening up its ha
   you're too close. It can caus
   ceiling, which you can spit a
   careful when it tries to grab
   damage from it. When you see 
   it will make a few passes bac
   damage you. It's hard to avoi
   will even "walk" across the f
   of damage if you get too clos
   pay attention and watch its p
      fight to win safely.

Whispy's Revenge
    Strategy: This battle puts y
   the battle is much like the o
   is that there are poisonous a
   above; these are purple. If y
   Inhale only the red ones and 
   cause damage. Also, this boss
   instead of simple air puffs, 

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  15. Abilities -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

====
Beam
====

Flail this beam like a whip. It
has many useful attacks. Try to
store up a super shot!

Abilities
---------

B: Beam Whip Dash + B: Cycle
Beam Dash + B in air: Beam Blast
Any direction + B near foe:
Capture Beam Hold B long +
Release: Wave Beam


====
Bomb
====

Grab a bomb and hold the button
to set the throw angle. Toss it
and it'll go Ka-BOOM!

Abilities
---------

B: Ready Bomb
Ready Bomb + B: Bomb Throw

*Set throw angle by holding B

Dash + Bomb Throw: Straight
Throw B near foe: Bomb Drop Down
+ B: Bomb Set


====
Cook
====

B: Cooking

*This ability turns all enemies 
 use


====
Copy
====

Use a strange light to analyze
and then copy foes' abilities.
Might you learn weird ones?

Abilities
---------

B: Analyze Beam

*Copies a foe's ability


=====
Crash
=====

B: Explode

*This ability kills all enemies 


======
Cutter
======

Throw a boomerang all over!
Slash! Jab! Strike! You can even
cut ropes!

Abilities
---------

B: Cutter Boomerang Dash + B:
Cutter Dash Hold B in air: Sweep
Cutter Down + B in air: Cutter
Drop B near foe: Cleaving Cutter
B B B near foe: Nonstop
Cutter/Final Cutter


=======
Fighter
=======

Hi-yaa! Hold the B Button longer
for a stronger blow! That punch
is an instant KO!

Abilities
---------

Set blow strength by holding B

B: Vulcan Jab (Short)
   Smash Punch (Long)
Dash + B: Leg Sweep (Short)
  Spin Kick (Long)
B in air: Down Kick (Short)
  Double Kick (Long)

Up + Hold B: Rising Break Any
direction + B near foe: Grab foe
Grab + B: Arm Throw Grab +
Back/Down + B: Judo Throw


====
Fire
====

Burn bright with fire power!
Light the fuse! Yow! Hot! You're
on fire, man. Yoww!

Abilities
---------

B: Fire Breath Fire Breath +
Control Pad: Aim Fire Hold B +
Hold Back: Fireball Inferno Dash
+ B: Burn B in air: Fireball
Spin B prior to landing:
Fireball Roll


======
Hammer
======

This hammer packs a wallop!
Punish stakes and blocks! When
it's on fire, foes beware!

Abilities
---------

B: Hammer Dash + B: Hammer Swing
B in air: Giant Swing Dash + B
in air: Ultra-Giant Swing Up +
B: Hammer Flip Dash + X: Hammer
Throw


===
Ice
===

Freeze foes with icy breath!
Kick ice cubes into others! When
you dash, you skate!

Abilities
---------

Dash: Skate B: Ice Breath B in
air: Ice Sprinkle Dash + B in
air: Super Ice Sprinkle Dash +
Hold B/B B B: Ice Storm Any
direction + B near foe: Ice
Suction Ice Suction + B: Ice
Ejection Tap frozen foe: Ice
Kick


===
Jet
===

Strap jet power to your back!
Hold the B Button to charge,
then let go to hit Mach 5!

Abilities
---------

Hold B: Store Power

    After storing power:

    Release B: Jet Kick
    Release B in air: Jet Headbu

Max power + Release B: Jet Dash
Jet Dash + B: Jet Cracker Any
direction + Release B near foe:
Jet Blow Max power + Jet Blow:
Rocket Dive Store Power + A/Y:
Power Save A/Y in air: Hover Max
power + A/Y in air: Ultra Jet
Jump


====
Mike
====

B: Singing attack

*You get three uses from this ab


======
Mirror
======

This mirror has odd powers!
Deflect projectiles or project
doubles of yourself!

Abilities
---------

B: Mirror Cut
Hold B: Reflect Force
Dash + B: Mirror Body
L/R: Reflect Guard


=====
Ninja
=====

Hide in shadows and darkness.
Use ninja skills on your
mission. You're a ninja! A
NINJA! Cool...

Abilities
---------

B: Knife Throw Hold B: Quad
Shock Dash + B: Dash Attack Down
+ B in air: Ninja Kick Any
direction + B near foe: Air Drop
Take damage + B: Hide Guard Push
on wall in air: Wall Cling Wall
Cling + A/Y: Wall Jump


=====
Paint
=====

B: Paint attack

*Causes damage to boss. It can o
 Arm, Heavy Lobster, Marx Soul).


=======
Parasol
=======

Guard against falling objects!
Twirl to attack or just drift.
Or do a parasol throw!

Abilities
---------

B: Parasol Swing Hold B: Parasol
Shield Dash + B: Parasol Drill
Down + B in air: Parasol Dive
Any direction + B near foe:
Circus Throw Drop: Parasol Drift
Down while dropping: Drift Stall
B underwater: Parasol Drill Down
+ B underwater: Parasol Dive


======
Plasma
======

Tap the +Control Pad to make and
store an electric charge! Plasma
shots go through walls.

Abilities
---------

*Rotate + to charge up!

No charge + B: Plasma Needle
Some charge + B: Plasma Arrow
More charge + B: Plasma Spark
Lots of charge + B: Plasma Laser
Tons of charge + B: Plasma Wave
Max charge + Release: Plasma
Barrier


=====
Sleep
=====

*When you touch the ability icon
 period, during which time you c


=====
Stone
=====

Pound! Pound! CRUSH! Change into
many heavy forms. When on a
slope, you'll sliiiiide.

Abilities
---------

B: Stone Change
B in air: Stone Smash
Dash + B: Turbo Stone

*Stone = Invincible


======
Suplex
======

This burns with fighting spirit!
Grab foes and throw 'em! Learn
all 8 throws to be a champ!

Abilities
---------

B: Dash Grab
Dash + B: Turbo Dash Grab
Down + B in air: Pinpoint Kick
B when grabbing: Fury Stomp
B near foe: Lift

    After Lifting:

    Up: Back Breaker
    Down: Body Slam
    Forward: Pile Driver
    Back: Big Suplex
    B: Torrent Lariat
    A/Y: Rock Drop
    All but Down in air: Air Bod
    Down in air: Plunge Body Sla


=====
Sword
=====

You wield the king of blades! At
full health, you shoot beams!
Show your sword mastery!

Abilities
---------

B: Chop
B with full health: Sword Beam
B after Chop: Uppercut
B, B, B: Multisword Attack
Dash + B: Stab
Dash + B in air: Sword Spin
B in air: Chop and Thrust
Down + B in air: Down Thrust


=====
Wheel
=====

Roll to be nearly invincible or
ride a Wheel Helper! Beware
thorns and holes.

Abilities
---------

B: Dash/Stop Dash
   *Works on water
Dash + A/Y: Brake Dash + Hold
A/Y: Go Slow Dash + Back: Turn
Dash + Repeatedly turn: Turn
Jump

*Speed goes up after turn


====
Wing
====

Midair spins and shuttle loops!
Spread your wings and fly,
little Kirby! Doesn't that feel
good?

Abilities
---------

B: Feather Gun Dash + B: Condor
Head Down + B in air: Bomber
Head Dash, Jump, Down + B:
Condor Dive Any direction + B
near foe: Toss B after Toss:
Shuttle Loop A/Y in air: Hover
Flap


=====
Yo-yo
=====

This isn't just any yo-yo! Swing
up and down, or break-spin! Try
'em all to look cool!

Abilities
---------

B: Yo-Yo Throw Dash + B: Break
Spin Up + B: Yo-Yo Up Down + B:
Yo-Yo Down Dash + B in air: Jump
Spin Any direction + B near foe:
Hammer Drop Down, Up + B: Gazer
Spiral

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  16. Mini-Games  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

================
Kirby Card Swipe
================

Here, you will be shown a number
of cards on the touch screen.
Remember where they are, since
in a moment, the door on the top
screen will open, revealing a
picture. You need to quickly tap
the card with that picture to
win. The first person to pick
the correct card first wins the
match. On the higher
difficulties, the cards you are
shown will be face down, so you
will really have to memorize
their locations to win!


=================
Kirby on the Draw
=================

In this game, you get to play in
a shooting gallery. A number of
sets of targets will continually
appear onscreen, and you have to
compete with three other
opponents to hit the targets
first. Each target can only be
hit once, so whoever touches
them first gets the points. Be
careful of the bombs, since you
will lose points if you touch
them! You also have limited
ammo, as designated on the
bottom of your screen. You can
reload at any time by tapping
the ammo box on the bottom of
the touch screen.


=============
Megaton Punch
=============

In this mode, you are up against
an opponent to see who is the
strongest. To achieve this,
there are three meters that will
appear, one after another, and
the closer to perfect each one
is (full meter bar, crosshairs
lined up, pendulum in circle
target) when you press the
button, the stronger your attack
will be. There are three
opponents in each round you must
beat, and three levels of
difficulty. On higher
difficulties, the opponents are
stronger, so you really need to
line up your crosshairs and fill
the meters to the max to win!


=============
Samurai Kirby
=============

Here, you play a fastest-finger
sort of game, based around
dueling. You and your opponent
will lock eyes, and then the
area will become seemingly
silent. Don't be fooled though;
a "!" will appear onscreen at
any time, and then the timers
will count down. As soon as you
see it appear, hit any button to
attack. If you were the faster
one to react, you will win.
There are three difficulties in
this mode, and the reaction
times will become much lower the
farther along you go, so watch
out!


============
Snack Tracks
============

In this mode, you and three
opponents are at the bottom end
of conveyor belts carrying
various food items. The tricky
part here is that there are also
bad things like bugs, bugs in
the food, rocks, and even bombs
coming down. You need to tap the
bad items to get rid of them,
since you will lose points if
you consume any of them. As the
game progresses, the conveyors
will move faster, so be careful!
You also need to keep your eyes
open to see the bugs in the
food, since they won't help your
score if you eat them!

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  17. Secrets/Tips and Tricks 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=================
Stage Unlockables
=================

Game How to Unlock
----                         ---
Dyna Blade Beat Spring Breeze
Gourmet Race Beat Spring Breeze
Helper to Hero Beat The Arena
Megaton Punch Beat Revenge of
the King Meta Knightmare Ultra
Beat Revenge of the King Milky
Way Wishes Beat Revenge of the
Meta Knight Revenge of the King
Beat Milky Way Wishes Revenge of
the Meta Knight Beat The Great
Cave Offensive Samurai Kirby
Beat Meta Knightmare Ultra The
Arena Beat Milky Way Wishes The
Great Cave Offensive Beat Spring
Breeze The True Arena Beat
Helper to Hero


=================
Unlock Sound Test
=================

To unlock the sound test mode,
you must complete Milky Way
Wishes.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  18. Credits -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Matthias Von Schmidt: For
telling me about how you don't
have to take the sword offered
before the Meta Knight battle,
as well as a correction about
the Whispy Woods battles.

Jack Truong: For correcting my
numbering of a couple of
treasures in the Great Cave
Offensive.

Tug Mulloy: For pointing out a
couple of things about the True
Arena.

Yoshifan: For a quick
correction/addition about the
Helper to Hero section.

Lisa: For telling me about using
the Plasma ability to reach the
King's Cape treasure in the
Great Cave Offensive.

Nick Verstrate: For correcting a
spelling error regarding Kong's
Barrel in the Great Cave
Offensive.

supershadow360: For pointing out
that you can obtain the Cook,
Crash, and Mike abilities in
Milky Way Wishes by inhaling.

********************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  19. Copyright Notice  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright
(c)2008-2010 Devin Morgan. All
rights reserved. Please view the
following URL to see the list of
sites that are allowed to post
my work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/
allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites
I know and trust well. If your
site is not on the
aforementioned list, you are
currently not allowed to post
any of my files on your site.
Please respect my work and do
not steal it or post it without
my permission. I only want my
most recent work to be available
and I do not feel that can be
achieved if others take from me
without my knowledge or
permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for
this game as well, and would
like to use some information,
credit me for what you use.
Please do not rip me off, as
that is blatant plagiarism and
such will not be tolerated.

If you wish to contact me, do so
at dbmfaqs(at)gmail(dot)com.
Please only contact me if there
are corrections to be made to
information that's currently
included. Thanks!

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features
/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=