--------------------------------


     Metal Slug 7 Prisoners Loca


--------------------------------

 Table of contents              

--------------------------------
 You can use search to navigate,
--------------------------------

-Table of Contents              

-Prisoners Location             
 =Mission 1                     
 =Mission 2                     
 =Mission 3                     
 =Mission 4                     
 =Mission 5                     
 =Mission 6                     
 =Mission 7                     

-Credits / Special Thanks To    

-History                        

--------------------------------

 Prisoners Location             

--------------------------------

 The formating of this guide wil

-Mission#
 =Map#
  -Prisoner# (VISIBLE/HIDDEN) De

 I defined map as one entire are
screen to browse through the map
you're in, but not other maps.

 Prisoner# is according to their
you see, when #13's location is
closer to you I numbered the
closer one first.

 (VISIBLE) means the prisoner is
fire at a certain location in
order to make the prisoner
appear. The best way to find
hidden prisoners is playing on
the Beginner difficulty, as you
have an unlimited ammo of Heavy
Machinegun.

 I'll describe the prisoner's lo
prisoner, background, and
enemies as reference points.
It's recommended that you play
through the mission first, and
then read my guide because the
first time it can be confusing
whether you've passed my
reference point or not.

 Items rewarded by prisoner is q
a single word (most of the time)
naming the reward. If I have no
idea, I'll just say swag.
Weapons will be written as their
abbriviation.

--------------------------------
             [MS01]
-Mission 1

 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the fi
  #2 (HIDDEN) Jump over the firs
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied up between t
  #4 (HIDDEN) Above #3, try jump
  #5 (HIDDEN) A little bit to th
   shoot the pillar that's tilte

 =Second map
   #6 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the u
   #7 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the u
   #8 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the l
   #9 (HIDDEN) After you blow up
   a couple steps to the right, 
   It'll roll underneath the pla
   prisoner will jump out onto t
   #10 (HIDDEN) Go a few steps t
    (you'll fall to death). Shoo
    prisoner will jump out onto 

 =Third map
   #11 (VISIBLE) Tied up to a bl
   #12 (VISIBLE) Right after the
   #13 (HIDDEN) Shoot the lamp a
    little bit to the right befo
   #14 (VISIBLE) Tied up, to the

--------------------------------
             [MS02]
-Mission 2

 =First map
  #1 (HIDDEN) Take the second li
   right. Shoot the ground sligh
  #2 (VISIBLE) Take the lift to 
  #3 (VISIBLE) After you get off

 =Second map
  #4 (HIDDEN) As soon as you exi
     he'll fall down. Doll.
  #5 (VISIBLE) Tied up on your r
  #6 (HIDDEN) From the base of t
   jumped up to the rail, you co
  #7 (VISIBLE) Tied up at the to
  #8 (VISIBLE) After the jumping
   top of the mound don't jump o
   hill and he's tied up down th
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the ra
   away to the right (If you jum
   just shoot up and walk up the

 =Third map
  Hint: If you shoot the base of
  attachment to your left.
  #10 (VISIBLE) Tied at the end 

 =Boss fight
  #11 (VISIBLE) Right at the sta
  #12 (VISIBLE) Appears very soo
  #13 (VISIBLE) Appears when you
  #14 (VISIBLE) Appears a couple

 Hint: If you destroy the boss w
per simultaneous hit final blow.

--------------------------------
             [MS03]
-Mission 3
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Before the slug. 
  #2 (VISIBLE) Tied at a tower. 
  #3 (VISIBLE) Right next to #3.
  #4 (VISIBLE) Tied at the last 

 =Second map
  #5 (VISIBLE) Middle of the lif
  #6 (VISIBLE) Falls from the sk
  #7 (VISIBLE) Same deal after #
  #8 (HIDDEN) After reaching the

 =Third map
  #9 (VISIBLE) After orange ball
  #10 (VISIBLE) After the first 
  #11 (VISIBLE) After you use th

 =Boss fight
  #12 (VISIBLE) At the lift. BUL
  #13 (VISIBLE) Falls from sky a
  #14 (VISIBLE) Same deal as #13

--------------------------------
             [MS04]
-Mission 4
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Take the upper pa
   Tied right before the panel. 
  #2 (HIDDEN) Take the lower pat
   for him to climb down the cli
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied underneath t
  #4 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the ro

 =Second map
  #5 (VISIBLE) Walking to the ri
 that falls from her backpack.
  #6 (VISIBLE) Tied at the botto
  #7 (VISIBLE) One flatform lowe
  #8 (VISIBLE) Just after #7, at

 =Third map
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied underneath a
  #10 (VISIBLE) Just after #9. B
  #11 (VISIBLE) After jumping, t
  #12 (VISIBLE) Tied under maggo

 =Boss fight
  #13 (VISIBLE) Left end of the 
  #14 (VISIBLE) Right end of the

--------------------------------
             [MS05]
-Mission 5
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the lo
  #2 (HIDDEN) After #1, drop dow
   platform. Destroy artillery t
   ground. Radish.

 =Second map
  N/A

 =Third map
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the mi
  #4 (VISIBLE) Tied up on top of
  #5 (HIDDEN) Shoot the floor in
  #6 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the mi
  #7 (VISIBLE) Right after #6. F

 =Fourth map
  #8 (HIDDEN) Shoot vertically u
   soon as you enter the map. Su
  #9 (VISIBLE) Tied up right in 
  #10 (VISIBLE) Tied up by a han
  #11 (HIDDEN) Shoot upwards, to
  #12 (VISIBLE) As soon as you j
 away if shot too early. BOMB.
  #13 (HIDDEN) After #12, destro
  #14 (HIDDEN) Right next to #13



--------------------------------
             [MS06]
-Mission 6
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) As soon as missio
  #2 (VISIBLE) Right after the c
  #3 (VISIBLE) Before you need t
  #4 (VISIBLE) Jump to the lower
 that falls from her backpack.
  #5 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the up

 =Second map
  #6 (VISIBLE) On the first plat
  #7 (HIDDEN) When the series of
   fall down. Otherwise, just un

 =Third map
  #8 (VISIBLE) Tied by a hanging
  #9 (VISIBLE) Just after #8. Lo
  #10 (VISIBLE) On the second sl
  #11 (VISIBLE) Tied by a hangin
  #12 (VISIBLE) To the right of 
  #13 (VISIBLE) After the first 

 =Fourth playable map (after the
  #14 (VISIBLE) Tied up in the m


--------------------------------
             [MS07]
-Mission 7
 =First map
  #1 (VISIBLE) On top of the fir
  #2 (VISIBLE) Tied up under the
  #3 (VISIBLE) Tied up under the

 =Second map
  #4 (VISIBLE) As soon as you en
  #5 (VISIBLE) After you pass th
   platforms. L.
  #6 (HIDDEN) Go past one more s
   junk falls from sky, destroy 
#7 (VISIBLE) Right after #6. R.

 =Third map
  #8 (HIDDEN) Walk a few steps t
  #9 (VISIBLE) Walking towards y
  #10 (VISIBLE) After you destro
  #11 (HIDDEN) Go half screen wi
  #12 (HIDDEN) Destroy a box the
  #13 (HIDDEN) When the platform
  #14 (VISIBLE) To the right of 
  #15 (HIDDEN) Stand where 14 wa
      right alternatively.
  #16 (VISIBLE) Tied up on the l

--------------------------------

 Total of 100 prisoners of war.

 Just for reference for people w
difficulty, I saved 84 prisoners
and got 5.03 million points.
Consider it a "normal" run
score. I will try a 100 rescue
run and see how the score
changes.

--------------------------------


  Credits / Special Thanks To   


--------------------------------

 Special thanks to Gid from GBAT

--------------------------------


  History                       


--------------------------------

v0.1 Jul.17.2008
 Started making guide.
v1.0 Jul.17.2008
 Found all 100 prisoners of war.

--------------------------------

 Contact me via E-mail: deathfis

 For typos, questions, permissio
anything.

 I don't plan on adding prisoner

--------------------------------

I am the sole author of this FAQ

 This guide is only available on

 You may not reproduce/redistrib
this guide for non-commercial
and personal use in its original
form only.

 All trademarks and copyrights c
respective trademark and
copyright holders.

--------------------------------
