 _______________________________
|                               
|    #                          
|        |||||||||||||||||||||||
|        ||                     
|        || --------------------
|        ||       NDS_Master    
|        ||        PRESENTS     
| ...... || --------------------
| ...... ||                     
| ...... |||||||||||||||||||||||
|    o     _____________________
|_________| |---------|--------|
 _________|_|_________|________|
|   ___  \ _____________________
|  |___|  |                     
| | Metroid Prime Hunter | | | _
| FAQ/Walkthrough | | | _| |_ |
Version 1.1 | (X) |
| |_   _| |                     
| |_| | Copyright 2006 | (B) |
|         |       NDS_Master    
|         |_____________________
|________/              Nintend[
|           |MIC.              [
|_______________________________

1. Copyright
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. Hunters
5. FAQ
6. Walkthrough
  A. The Hunt Begins
  B. Celestial Archives
  C. Alinos
   D. Vesper Defense Outpost
  E. Arcterra
 F. Celestial Archives: Visit 2
  G. Alinos: Visit 2
  H. Arcterra: Visit 2
  I. Vesper Defense Outpost: Vis
  J. Alinos: Visit 3
  K. Oubliette
7. Logbook
8. Powerup Locations
8. Special Thanks

*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*
1. Copyright 2006 NDS_Master
*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*

This guide is copyrighted to me,
NDS_Master, which grants me full
permission to use this guide and
to post it wherever I want. It
also gives me exclusive rights
to my guide. Therefore, everyone
else does not have permission to
use my guide or to post it on
any websites, publications, or
other documents. To defend my
rights, the United States has
laws and other countries have
international treaties. With its
copyright, this guide is under
the protection of many
countries, and each of them
takes stealing literary works
very seriously. Should someone
plagiarize my works or blatantly
steal them, he or she will be
performing an illegal act that
can lead to dire consequences.

Fortunately, there is an easy
solution if you want to use my
guide. Just ask me. I typically
allow websites to publish my
works if they simply ask my
permission. If you want to use
my guides or reviews, contact me
and I will quickly consider your
request and reply. The answer
will usually be yes, but it is
imperative that you contact me
first to make your usage of my
written work legal. Since my
e-mail became overcome by spam
when I posted it, I no longer
use it. Instead, you will have
to send me a Private Message via
my My Nintendo account. If you
don't have a My Nintendo
account, you will have to go to
Nintendo.com to get one. It's
free and easy. Once you have
one, just PM me, NDS_Master,
with your request. Thanks in
advance for only using this
guide when you have my
permission.

*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*
2. Introduction
*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*

The rules are changing. When
Nintendo announced the Nintendo
DS back in '04, gamers
everywhere knew that something
major was afoot. With a touch
screen, dual screens, a
microphone, and Wi-Fi, the DS
was not an ordinary portable
system. It was the grassroots
portable of Nintendo, leading
the way towards more quality and
innovation.

Since it was so different, the
DS was bound to host some games
that moved away from Nintendo's
typical style. Metroid Prime
Hunters is one of those games.
It combines online play with
voice chat, Samus with other
bounty hunters, and the Metroid
series with distinct first
person shooter elements.
Nintendo is truly going out of
its usual bounds with this one,
much to the delight of players
from all over the world. And
with its new steps come new
rules. Metroid combat will never
be the same.

New rules mean new challenges,
and in Metroid Prime Hunters
some of the toughest maps,
enemies, bosses, and rival
bounty hunters await you. A ton
of armor and morph abilities
alone aren't going to help you.
So, what's a bounty hunter to do
in the midst of such hostility?
Once you've been slaughtered for
the fiftieth time, it may be
time to look elsewhere for
assistance than your own cozy
weapon arsenal. That's what this
FAQ is for. It dissects the many
challenges that you will face,
offering sound advice on how to
advance. So grab your DS,
sharpen your sharp shooting
skills, and prepare for a
journey unlike any other.

*=*=*=*=*=*
3. Controls
*=*=*=*=*=*

=================
Stylus Mode Right
=================

D-Pad: Move Character L Button:
Shoot/Scan A, B, X, Y: Jump
Touch Screen: Aim, change form,
change weapon, use scan visor
Double Tap the Touch Screen:
Jump Start: Pause

================
Stylus Mode Left
================

A, B, X, Y Buttons: Move
Character R Button: Shoot/Scan
D-Pad: Jump Touch Screen: Aim,
change form, change weapon, use
scan visor Double Tap the Touch
Screen: Jump Start: Pause

===============
Dual Mode Right
===============

D-Pad: Move Character A, B, X, Y
Buttons: Aim Weapon R Button:
Jump L Button: Shoot/Scan Touch
Screen: Change form, change
weapons, use scan visor Start:
Pause

==============
Dual Mode Left
==============

A, B, X, Y Buttons: Move
Character D-Pad: Aim Weapon L
Button: Jump R Button:
Shoot/Scan Touch Screen: Change
form, change weapons, use scan
visor Start: Pause

===========
Sensitivity
===========

Adjusts the sensitivity of the
movement of the crosshair.
Higher sensitivity means that
aiming will take less time, but
it is less accurate.

*=*=*=*=*=*
4. Hunters
*=*=*=*=*=*

For the first time ever in a
Metroid game, Samus is not the
only hunter ready to get in on
the action. Six other bounty
hunters are also ready to charge
into the Alimbic Cluster in
order to gain the mysterious
Ultimate Power that supposedly
lies there. With different
backgrounds, alternate forms,
and affinity weapons, these
hunters are not to be taken
lightly.

Affinity System

In Metroid Prime: Hunters,
gamers will run across a slew of
weapons that will aid them in
their quest to dominate.
However, some weapons are more
beneficial to certain bounty
hunters than other, thanks to
the weapon affinity system.
Basically, the various hunters
can draw specific benefits from
their affinity weapon, benefits
that they alone receive. For
more information on how each
hunter uses the affinity system,
check out the Hunters section.

==========
Samus Aran
==========

A prestigious bounty hunter that
frequently works for the
Galactic Federation, Samus has
more than enough skill to take
on any challenges that lie in
the Alimbic Cluster. While many
other bounty hunters seek the
Ultimate Power for themselves
alone, she just wants to make
sure such power does not fall
into the wrong hands.

Alternate Form: Morph Ball
Affinity Weapon: Missiles
Affinity Advantage: Missiles
will track opponents as they
move, and Samus's ability to
charge missiles makes them even
more deadly.

=====
Trace
=====

As a member of the dreaded
Kriken race, Trace has a
heritage of deadliness that
inspires fear in many of the
people he encounters. All
Krikens are known for their
abilities, and every Kriken is
exiled from its group for a
short period of time when it
reaches a certain age. It was
during his exile that Trace
learned of the Ultimate Power in
the Alimbic Cluster, and his
mission is to secure that power
for his people.

Alternate Form: Triskelion
Affinity Weapon: Imperialist
Affinity Advantage: If he is not
moving, Trace will become
invisible if he is using the
Imperialist.

======
Weavel
======

Due to his past, Weavel has more
than enough reason to seek
revenge from Samus. Once an
influential leader of the Space
Pirates, he was severely injured
during a skirmish that his group
had with Samus. He barely
survived and soon became largely
mechanical, using artificial
means to sustains his life. With
such a strange past, one can
only wonder why Weavel is headed
to the Alimbic Cluster.

Alternate Form: Half Turret
Affinity Weapon: Battlehammer
Affinity Advantage: It explodes
as it hits, causing greater
damage to enemies.

=====
Sylux
=====

Who is Sylux? Few know. This
mysterious bounty hunter has his
past hidden; keeping it a secret
to himself and possibly a couple
of other individuals. Although
he conceals his past, Sylux
makes one thing known: he
loathes the Galactic Federation
as well as Samus Aran.

Alternate Form: Lockjaw Affinity
Weapon: Shock Coil Affinity
Advantage: Zaps energy from
opponents while healing Sylux.
=====
Spire
=====

As probably the only Diamont
still alive, Spire has surpassed
unsurpassable odds to survive as
a bounty hunter. Despite his
success, however, Spire still
desires to know if any of his
race still live, so he goes
throughout the galaxy in search
of them.

Alternate Form: Dialanche
Affinity Weapon: Magmaul
Affinity Advantage: Sets
opponents on fire when it hits,
causing damage over an extended
period of time.

=====
Noxus
=====

Since he is Vhozon, Noxus used
to live in the outer rim,
secluded from much of the rest
of the galaxy. Recently, though,
he had emerged as a terrible
bounty hunter, seeking to
scourge those who do wrong.

Alternate Form: Vhoscythe
Affinity Weapon: Judicator
Affinity Advantage: When
charged, the Judicator will
freeze enemies.

======
Kanden
======

Originally created as an
experiment to be an elite
fighter, Kanden became more
powerful than its creators could
have imagined. After destroying
the laboratory it was created
in, Kanden headed into the
galaxy as a treacherous hunter.

Alternate Form: Stinglarva
Affinity Weapon: Volt Driver
Affinity Advantage: When Kanden
hits opponents with the Volt
Driver, it will temporarily
distort their visor, making it
hard for them to see.

*=*=*=*
5. FAQ
*=*=*=*

Wondering about various aspects
of Metroid Prime Hunters? This
is the FAQ section, where I
answer many common questions
about the game. I will try to
update this as much as I can
with even more questions and
answers as time goes on.

Q: A hunter stole one of my
Octoliths! What do I do?

A: You have two choices. You can
either quit without saving
(which is really cheap and
boring, not to mention it makes
you lose all your progress since
the last save point), or you can
fight the bounty hunter again
and defeat them to retrieve the
Octolith. Sometimes you can find
them in the same room you
previously fought them in, while
other times they will travel to
another planet or station.

To find them, look on the left
side of the radar screen when
choosing the next place to
visit. It will list he bounty
hunters you will find on that
planet. If the hunter with your
Octolith is there, that should
be your destination. The bounty
hunters will randomly attack you
in large rooms once you return
to a planet for a second time
(even the ones that have
Octoliths), so just wander
around until you come upon the
correct hunter fight. Then you
will be able to conquer the
hunter and regain your Octolith.

Q: Some of the enemies I
destroyed left health and ammo
powerups, but they are out of my
reach. How do I obtain them?

A: This is a frequent problem,
but that answer is simple.
Charge up whatever weapon you
are using, and when it is
charged it will suck all of the
nearby powerups into you,
allowing you to collect them
while standing still

Q: I have earned an Octolith
from each of the four worlds,
but no more are showing up on
the radar. Where do I go?

A: Each planet has two
Octoliths; after acquiring one
from each place you will need to
start backtracking so that your
newly attained weapons can open
up areas that were previously
inaccessible.

Q: What are all the hallways
doing in between major rooms?

A: Many of these short hallways
were inserted into the game to
act as loading places. Inside
the hallway, the game will have
a chance to load up the next
area while you wait for the door
leading to it to open. That is
why the hallway doors sometimes
take so long before they open;
the game is loading the area
beyond them. In this guide, I
sometimes mention the hallways
for the sake of completeness,
but other times I will act as if
they are not even there. As they
are an insignificant part of the
game, don't be thrown off if I
neglect to mention one.

*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*
6. Walkthrough
*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*

So, you are ready to tackle the
quest for Ultimate Power? That
is great, because it is going to
be a challenge. Here are a few
tips for using this guide, as
well as for playing the game:

Many items abound that you can
scan. Use your scan visor to add
the to your logbook. A [?] is
located in this walkthrough
whenever there is an item to
scan. If you want to see exactly
what item corresponds with what
number, go to the end of the
each individual section to see
what items you could scan. For
each level the number will start
50 higher (1, 51, 101, etc.),
and this is simply to make a
distinction between the scans
that you should encounter first
in any given level.

If you die, you will restart at
a checkpoint. All items scanned
after you last reached that
checkpoint are deleted, so you
will need to rescan them as you
progress.

That's it for now. The rest
should be fairly
straightforward, so let's get
started!

==================
A. The Hunt Begins
==================

Mission File 79109

"The secret to Ultimate Power
lies in the Alimbic Cluster."

This repeating neural thread,
originating from an uncharted
region of the Tetra Galaxy known
as the Alimbic Cluster, was
recently intercepted and
translated by Federation
empaths.

1. Discover the meaning behind
   this mysterious telepathic
   message.
2. If the "Ultimate Power" can
   be secured, ensure Federation
   control
3. If the power cannot be
   secured, ensure that it
   remains secret or destroy
it.

"This operation must remain
covert. The tetra galaxy is
outside of federation-controlled
space, and the Alimbic Cluster
is a wild and uncharted region.

While we have kept our
communications classified, we
know other entities have
intercepted the thread.

The lure of ultimate power will
be irresistible to many,
disposition of rival interests
is presumed hostile.

Uploading known coordinates...

=====================
B. Celestial Archives
=====================

The mission has been set.
Ultimate Power lies somewhere in
the Alimbic Cluster, and it is
up to you to find it. Once you
have scanned the galaxy and
located the Celestial Archives,
select it and choose to land
ship. Your mission will then
begin.

When you begin, move forward a
short distance to get off the
top of your ship. Before you
continue, there are some items
you must scan. Scanning items
will help you figure out what
they are as well as help you
progress through the game, so
scanning is vital. Tap and hold
the small green circle at the
bottom of the touch screen in
the center. It will activate
your scan visor.

Turn all the way around so that
it focuses on you ship. Hold L
to scan it. [1] Then, turn back
around so you are facing the
same way as your ship. Turn
directly to the left, and the
scan visor will focus on a
display board. Hold L to scan it
as well. [2] Then, turn back to
the right to face the same
direction as your ship. Move
forward to head to the door that
is at the edge of the room. The
game will instruct you to access
your scan visor, so again use
the technique you just learned.
Now, scan the glowing blue
hexagon just above the door, [3]
and then scan the door itself.
[4] You will learn vital
information about going through
the door. Simply exit out of
your scan visor and shoot the
door when you are near it to
make it open. Go through it.

You will enter a twisting
hallway. At the end of it is
another door that you open the
exact same way, and beyond that
is yet another small hallway and
another door. Once you have done
that, you will enter a large
room.

Walk forward into the room that
has a large structure directly
straight from the door leading
to it. A ramp is to the right,
but it isn't important right
now. Enter into the scan visor
and you will find something to
scan on the left side of the
base of the structure. [5] Now,
head up the ramp. At the top of
the ramp, go to the left onto
the walkway between the first
structure and another structure
that is in the room. Get your
scan visor on and scan the
glowing orange portion of the
structure to the left and the
structure to the right. [6] [7]

Head down the other side of the
ramp and go towards the door at
the other end of the room. As
you pass the Synergy Processor,
turn to the left and you will
see a green panel slanting
upward, which you can scan. [8]
Then, turn to the right and head
towards the door. It will have a
red circular thing on it, and a
small cutscene will highlight
this. Use your scan visor to
first scan the door. [9] Next,
scan the switch to the left of
it. The switch won't go into the
logbook, but it will unlock the
door. Then, you will be able to
then open the door. Inside the
door is a hallway, followed by
another door that leads to a
room.

Here you will meet your first
foes. Before you take them all
out, remember to pull out your
scan visor so that you can
identify them. [10] Then, aim
your gun and blast them to
pieces. They are fairly weak and
they try to shoot at you, so
strafing left and right should
make it easy to destroy them.

The door will then unlock, and
your can proceed through the
doors and hallways until you
encounter several blue boxes.
You will be ordered to charge up
your laser by holding down the
fire button, so try that out
here. Use your powered beam to
decimate the boxes. Inside you
will find health, just remember
to scan it before you collect
it. [11]

Continue on through the hallway,
and you will find several boxes
blocking your path. Before you
try to tackle this obstacle,
turn to the left and you will
see an orange panel on the wall,
which you should scan. [12]
After that, go towards the
boxes. A special message will
pop up to teach you how to jump.
If you do not already know how
to jump, follow its directions
to get over the boxes. At the
end of the room with the boxes
you need to jump over, before
you turn right and head down the
hallway, look at the blue
display with your scan visor and
scan it. [13] Then, you may
continue down the hallway.

In the next room, and green
enemy will be waiting for you.
It can only hurt you if you
touch it; shoot it from a
distance. However, never forget
to scan foes that you have never
encountered before so that you
can add them to your logbook.
[14] When it is gone, a new item
will appear for you to scan and
collect. [15] However, scanning
still is not complete for this
room. Use your visor to identify
either of the greenish panels
near where the enemy was (new
enemies will occasionally
appear; be cautious). [16] Then,
journey to the side of the room
opposite where the Petrasyl was
and look on the wall with your
scan visor to locate a small,
blue panel that you can scan.
[17] Finally, scan the door
leading out of the room. [18] It
can only be opened with
missiles; switch to them by
tapping on the missile icon on
the touch screen. A single shot
will open the door, and you can
resume using the power beam.

You will go through a straight
hallway, and afterwards you will
enter a curved hallway which you
can go either left or right in.
To the right is nothing; go to
the left. As you go, three
Psycho Bits will obstruct your
path. You should already have
them in your logbook from your
last encounter, so simply blast
them to pieces. When you go
forward further, a message will
appear from your ship.

"Warning! Confirmed arrival of
unidentified vessel at Celestial
Archives. Extreme Caution is
advised."

Who could this be? What bounty
hunter is it? Wait and see. At
the end of the hallway you will
find a new type of door, but it
functions exactly like previous
door so you do not need to scan
it. Go through it and you will
enter a large room with a
massive blue crystal like force
field in the middle. A skinny
wall juts out of the ground by
the place where you enter, so
scan it. [19] Near the base of
the platform with the force
field on it is a small, blue
screen. It can be scanned as
well. [20] Then, hop up to the
force field. Activate your scan
visor and you will see two blue
squares that you can scan.
First, scan the top one. [21]

It will trigger the arrival of
many Psycho Bits. They will
appear in massive hordes, and
you have to eliminate them.
Since they try to shoot directly
at you, the best way to avoid
their attacks is to keep moving.
Walk off the walkway onto the
ground, and start strafing
around the central platform.
Continuously shoot the Psycho
Bits. When they appear in other
parts of the room, use the same
technique until they are all
dead. They will keep coming for
a long time, but do not give up.
Just keep fighting.

Once they are all deceased, a
sphere will appear on the
walkway at the top of the room.
Jump up to it, but do not
collect it. Scan it first. [22]
Then, pick it up and the force
field will disappear, allowing
you to grab the Artifact it
protected. Scan the Artifact,
[23] and grab it to unlock the
door on the other side of the
room.

If you are confused which way to
go, stand in the center of the
room and look to either side of
the walkway. On one side is a
narrow, short wall, and on the
other side is a narrow orange
strip where a wall should be. Go
to the door that is on the side
without the wall.

Through the door, look to your
left and what will you see? A
swarm of Psycho Bits! The
hallway is narrow, but you can
still strafe to avoid getting
hit. When they are gone, walk
over to where they were. You
will drop a minute distance.
Then, turn around and look at
the place you dropped from. It
is a walkway, but beneath it it
looks like there is another
path. You can only go through
the lower path as the Morph, so
tap the icon to change to your
alternate form. From there, go
on the lower path until you
collect the missile pack, and
then go back the way you came.

Switch back to regular, biped
form, and continue on through
the hallway. You will receive a
lesson in using the Morph Ball.
Afterwards, you will see another
split path like the one you just
went through. Turn into a Morph
to go the lower way (which has a
small energy ball). At the end
of this lower path, you will
find an Energy Tank. (e1) It
essentially adds 100 units of
energy, making it beneficial.

Head back the way you came, and
when you get out from the lower
path switch to regular, biped
form and jump onto the slightly
higher path. You will see a
door, but guarding that door is
a new enemy. Scan it. [24] Since
it is a fairly tough beast,
continuously fire at it while
backing away when it draws near.
You don't want to be close
enough for it to lunge at you.
When it dies, scan the blue
circle that will appear. [25] It
is a new type of health. Then,
go through the door.

Soon you will come to a very
tall room. In the center is a
tall pole with platforms around
it. Before you attempt to scale
the monstrosity, take advantage
of your scan visor. [26] Upon
completion of the scan, start
jumping up the orange fan blades
that function as platforms. It
might take some skill, but you
can do it. There is nothing else
of interest in the room, so once
you reach the platform that
leads to the door you can simply
exit the room.

Through the next hallway and
door, you will come to yet
another curved hallway. You need
to head right, so turn right and
go until you see a green door.
Scan it just so you have it in
your logbook. [27] Then,
continue along the hallway. As
you progress, you will suddenly
see... Kanden? Yes, it is him,
but he will switch to his
alternate form and run like a
girl as soon as he spots you.

Naturally, you'll need to also
enter your Morph Ball form to
chase him through the tiny
passageway. There's no need to
rush, but wasting time isn't
good either. Out of the small
passageway, switch back to
regular form and take out the
Psycho Bits as you head straight
along the hallway. When the
Psycho Bits are gone, look at
the metal poles that extend from
one side of the wall to another
with your scan visor. While you
cannot scan most of the poles,
the one in the middle of the
other three you can scan. [28]

Once you have added the Alimbic
Joist to your logbook, press
onward in the direction you were
heading. You will come to
another small passageway, and
you will need to return to Morph
Ball form to go through it. It
has valuable health, and at the
end of the passageway is a
valuable Missile Expansion, (m1)
which allows you to hold 10
extra missiles.

Head back out, switch to normal
form, and head back towards the
first small passageway. Instead
of going through it, jump on the
walkway on top of it and finish
off the Psycho Bits that lurk
there. Go through the door,
which looks deceptively like the
door you came through to enter
this curved hallway. Beyond the
door is a short hallway,
followed by a large room with
more cooling fans. This time,
the fan blades are blue. You
will receive yet another gunship
transmission inside this room.

"Pilot of docked ship identified
as bounty hunter Kanden. Your
warp signature was traced.
Assume hostile intent."

Though it may seem like you
should jump up the fan blades
first, that is not the case.
You're your scan visor on, run
to the other side of the room
and look for the window that you
can scan. [29] After you scan
it, then jump up the cooling fan
blades and destroy any Petrasyls
that threaten your safe passage.
The fans are farther apart this
time, making it harder to go up
them. Keep trying, and soon you
will reach the top of the room,
which has a door. Go through
that door and the next, and
guess what? You are at another
curved hallway!

To the right are some boxes with
some items, and to the left is
the door that leads to a large
room. Inside that room is
Kanden. Be prepared for your
first bounty hunter fight! The
first order of business, though,
should be to get some scanning
out of the way in the large
room. Near the skinny wall on
the side of the room, you will
find something that you can
scan. [30] On the other side of
the room, you will find another
skinny wall with another object
to scan. [31] Once you are done
with that, use your best
maneuvering to scan Kanden
himself. [32] He has the volt
driver, his affinity weapon, and
it will disrupt your screen
display if it hit you. Use
caution around him! An energy
bar at the bottom of the screen
will alert you to how much
health he has left after you hit
him. Also, make sure to scan his
alternate form, the Stinglarva,
because it has its own place in
the logbook as well. [33]

------------
Kanden Fight
------------

The best strategy to use is to
stay on the walkway at the top
of the room while Kanden is on
the ground in his alternate
form. Shoot him consistently.
When he returns to biped form so
he can jump up to the walkway,
equip your missiles and moves
away from the middle. Shoot him
when he gets on the walkway, and
continue to shoot him as he
approaches you in his alternate
form. Do not be afraid to switch
back to the power beam if he
gets too close. Make your shots
count, and continue this routine
when he goes back to the ground
in his alt form. If you ever get
low on missiles or health, break
open the boxes on each side of
the room. They will provide you
will beneficial powerups.

Once you defeat him, a Shield
Key will appear. Take it, and
the red circle on the short gray
door on the walkway will
disappear. Jump onto the
walkway, switch to Morph Ball,
and go to the gray door. Use a
power bomb to open the door, and
proceed through. Inside you will
find an Alimbic Artifact and
some health. Instead of simply
rushing in to obtain the
Artifact, put your scan visor on
and scan it because it is a
different type of Artifact than
the first one you scanned. [34]
With the Artifact in your
control, the door in the main
room that had the red circle on
it will unlock. As soon as you
come out from the area you were
in as a Morph Ball, head to the
right. That is the door you
should go through.

Past the door, put your scan
visor on and scan the turrets
that will fire at you. [35]
Then, blast them to pieces. They
are weak and should not give you
any trouble. Afterwards, go
through the door they were
guarding. It will lead to a room
with several platforms.

Before you hop on the platforms,
look at the ground. You will see
a blue and an orange light.
First, scan the blue light [36]
and then scan the orange light.
The orange light is only a
switch, but it will activate the
portal. If you go through the
portal, you will warp to where
your ship is. By jumping onto
your ship, you can save your
game. To get back to where you
were, simply go through the
portal in the room where your
ship is. After the portal has
been opened by scanning the
switch, keep your scan visor on
and turn to the right. Look at
the wall and you will see
several white squares. One of
them, a fairly small distance
up, can be scanned. [37]

Now, you have some serious
platform jumping to do. Jump
across the platforms until
halfway up you see a yellow
panel. Once you scan it, [38]
continue on your way. Do not
attempt to shoot it, or else the
guard node will shoot you and
harm you. You're going to need a
more powerful weapon to take
down this force field, but
that's for a later mission.

At the top platform, look around
until you notice a place in the
wall you can jump to. Jump over
to it, and follow the path until
you reach the door. It leads to
a small room with an Artifact
Shield in the middle. Shoot all
four switches, which are located
on both sides of both doors, and
then a key will appear. Take the
key to eliminate the shield so
that you can gain the Artifact
it protects. Since it is also
different that the previous two
Artifacts, you will need to scan
it before you collect it. [39]
Then, a message will appear.

"Long-range thermomagnetic-
resonance scanners indicate
remote and inaccessible
chambers. Use the portal to
access the inaccessible."

Yep, it's time to head towards
the boss! Go through the door
with the blue pillars next to
it, and you will come to a
massive portal. Quickly scan it.
[40] Now, this is the first time
you can scan the Stronghold
Portal, but it will not add it
to the logbook if you already
have three Artifacts. Because of
this, since you will probably
have all three Artifacts by the
time you reach this Stronghold
Portal, you will need to make
sure that you scan a later
Stronghold Portal before you
acquire all of the Artifacts for
that mission. Keeping this in
mind, go through the portal. The
area you will enter is deserted,
and a lone door leads to a
desolate walkway. Scan the door
[41] and head through it until
you reach the end of the
walkway. A massive door will bar
you way, which you can scan.
[42] Blast it open, and then
shoot the door after it to enter
the boss room.

------------------
Boss: Cretaphid v1
------------------

This boss might not look like
much, but even with a simple
pillar form it can still wield
deadly weapons. Before you begin
the duel, scan the boss into
your logbook. [43] Also, to the
right of the door in the boss
room is also another item to
scan; do not forget it! [44]

This pillar is a monster
fighter, but you can take it
down with some knowledge and
some skill. When you first meet
it, red lasers will come from
its top three nodes. They will
travel in a counter-clockwise
direction, so strafe in that
direction as well to avoid
getting burned. Also, never ever
run into Cretaphid, or you will
suffer.

As you strafe, shoot the blue
nodes on Cretaphid until they go
out. (Sometimes they deposit
health or missiles, and if they
do charge up your power beam.
The charged power beam will suck
all nearby powerups into you,
allowing you to collect them
without going out of your way.)
Do not be alarmed when the red
lasers occasionally shut off,
because they will simply turn on
again. Once you have knocked out
every single blue node, then
lasers will shut off for a long
period of time and a holographic
box will come out of the top of
Cretaphid and shoot at you. Try
to avoid the shots by jumping or
strafing, and fire at the
holographic box multiple times.
After a while, it will disappear
again and the blue nodes will
light back up.

Keep doing this until Cretaphid
starts flashing. Then, the blue
nodes just below the red nodes
will turn red and start emitting
lasers, and the red nodes at the
top will turn blue. It is the
same story as last time, only
now it is with four lasers
instead of three. A few of the
lasers are close together; find
the greatest gap in between
laser for you to strafe in. This
time, you will go clockwise.
Shoot out the blue nodes until
they are gone, and then fire at
the holographic box until
Cretaphid starts flashing again.
The final phase will then begin.

Now the bottom five blue nodes
will turn red and start firing
lasers. Again, find the largest
gap and strafe counter-clockwise
to keep from getting scorched.
Once all the blue nodes are out,
the holographic box will appear
yet again. This time, however,
don't mess with the power beam.
Pull out your missiles and
release them at the box to
maximize damage. Continue on
this course until you have
reduced Cretaphid to
nothingness.

In the place where Cretaphid
was, a brilliant, shiny Octolith
will appear. Obviously you are
going to want to add it to your
stash, but first add it to your
logbook via the scan visor. [45]
A message will appear when you
obtain it.

"Octoliths may be the key to the
Ultimate Power alluded to in the
telepathic message."

Grab the health packs scattered
throughout the room before you
leave, as they will provide you
with beneficial energy as you
leave the Celestial Archives.
Head through the two strongholds
doors, and get ready for you
next challenge.

------------------------------
Escape from Celestial Archives
Time: 8 Minutes
------------------------------

"Security protocol initiated.
Evacuate immediately!"

Whoops, stealing the Octolith
caused a disturbance in the
Alimbic security system. The
whole place is going to blow if
you stay there, so you had
better get moving. Head straight
back across the walkway to the
large portal, and go through it.
Now, you just have the entire
Celestial Archives to get
through.

In the room right after the room
you will teleport to, several
Psycho Bits will impede your
progress. Strafe around them to
avoid getting hit, and decimate
them. Do not waste time. The
doors will unlock when they are
dead; go through the door
without the blue pillars.

You will come to the last of the
tall rooms you came through.
Drop down quickly, and head
through the door to get out of
the tall room. You may recall
that the teleport to the ship
used to be located here, but for
some reason it was disabled. It
will not be easy getting out.

Go through doors until you come
to a curved hallway. When you
reach it, head to the right and
go in the door you come to. It
leads to the room where you
fought Kanden, but there is no
time to reminisce on that fight
now. Run straight across the
room and head into the door that
is to the right. Break open the
box next to the wall as you go
to collect some extra energy.

Again you will enter a curved
hallway; this time head to the
left. Psycho Bits will yet again
appear to disrupt your movement,
so fight them off as quickly as
possible. Since they are close
together, this might be a good
time to empty out a few of your
missiles if you have any. Once
they are dead, go through the
door they were locking, and do
not be afraid to destroy the
boxes before you head out.

Soon you will reach another tall
room; drop down to the bottom of
it and go through the door.
After going through a couple of
doors and a hallway, another
curved hallway will cross your
path. Go right, but only go
until you fall a short distance.
Then, turn around and turn into
the Morph. Roll under the
pathway that you were just on,
and go through until you reach
the end.

Once there, switch back to
regular form and shoot the
Lesser Ithrak that will attack
you. It will soon die, and you
can continue to run like crazy
towards the end. You will come
across two turrets and another
Lesser Ithrak. You must defeat
them to unlock the door they
guard, so fire quickly and
cautiously. Go through the door
once it is unlocked.

Drop down when you come to the
third tall room in your escape,
and go through the doors at the
bottom of the tall room until
you reach what? A curved
hallway. Left is your route this
time; ignore the Lesser Ithrak
that will fall from the ceiling;
you need to keep moving. Psycho
Bits will also guard the
hallway; just strafe left and
right as you run by them. When
you get to the door, go through
it to enter a large room with
even more Psycho Bits.

These you have to destroy. Start
strafing you normally do with
these enemies, and shoot them
until they are all gone. The
door will then unlock. But wait,
which door are you supposed to
go through? This time, you are
supposed to move through the
door that is closest to the
skinny narrow wall, not the one
closest to the skinny orange
strip on the ground.

Another curved hallway. What a
surprise. Run left, ignoring the
Psycho Bits you encounter. You
will come to another door, which
will take you out of the final
curved hallway. The room you
enter will be infested with
Petrasyls, but you have no time
to fight them. Avoid touching
them as you go up the ramp that
leads to the exit of the first
room filled with Petrasyls. You
will have to destroy a few, so
fire rapidly as you progress.

The next area also has
Petrasyls, and they are over
several boxes. Jump over the
boxes and kill some of the
Petrasyls that bar your path.
Run up the ramp that is after
the boxes, follow the path, and
go through doors until you reach
a large room.

Here, your final challenge
waits. A cutscene will alert you
to the entry of Guardians. Three
Guardians will appear and attack
you. They must be eliminated.
This is a hectic time, but you
should still put on your scan
visor to add the Guardian to
your logbook. [46] It will only
take a second, and it is
beneficial. Equip your missiles
(if you have any) as you fight
the Guardians, and constantly
strafe to avoid getting shot.
They have health bars, so you
can tell how much strength they
have left. A few missiles should
kill them, which is why it is
vital that you switch weapons.
Otherwise you will waster
precious time. (This is the last
battle, so this is okay if you
have plenty of time left.)

Upon the Guardians' defeat, run
through the final few hallways
until your reach your ship. Run
up to the front of it and jump
on top of it. When you do, it
will ask if you want to enter
your ship. Say yes, save your
game, and select launch ship to
head out and search for other
places.

[1] Hunter Gunship
[2] Celestial Archives
[3] Alimbic Prophecy 01
[4] Door
[5] Synergy Processor
[6] Port Helm
[7] Starboard Helm
[8] Synergy Drive
[9] Sealed Door
[10] Psycho Bit v1.0
[11] Small Energy
[12] Alimbic Panel
[13] Navigational Chart
[14] Petrasyl
[15] Small Missile Pack
[16] Synergy Strut
[17] Tetra Trade Map
[18] Brown Blast Shield
[19] Science Hub
[20] Alimbic Artifacts
[21] Artifact Shield
[22] Shield Key
[23] Cartograph Artifact
[24] Lesser Ithrak
[25] Medium Energy
[26] Cooling Fans
[27] Green Blast Shield
[28] Alimbic Joist
[29] Tetra Galaxy
[30] Political Hub
[31] Anthropologic Hub
[32] Kanden
[33] Stinglarva
[34] Attameter Artifact
[35] Alimbic Turret v1.0
[36] Portal
[37] Lift Controls
[38] Yellow Force Field
[39] Binary Subscripture
[40] Stronghold Portal
[41] Stronghold Void
[42] Stronghold Door
[43] Cretaphid v1
[44] Biodefense Chamber A
[45] Octolith
[46] Guardian

=========
C. Alinos
=========

Once you leave the Celestial
Archives having retrieved the
first Octolith, you will take
off and scan the system for more
areas to explore. Alinos, the
fiery hot lava planet, will
appear as another destination.
Choose it and you will be able
to start your journey through
the flames.

Perhaps the first thing that
will strike you about Alinos is
the wide-open area where you
land that is filled with lava.
While it may seem massive, there
are only a few things that you
need to do here. Once you walk
off the front of your ship, turn
slightly to the left and you
will see an orange display that
is close by which you can scan.
[51]

With that out of the way, run
behind your ship and jump off of
the high landing platform you
were on. Land on the section of
land behind it before the lava,
and you will see an orange
display to scan at the edge of
the land facing towards the
lavafall. [52] When you have
scanned that, proceed around the
landing platform until you are
in front of the long flight of
stairs. Face away from the
stairs.

Barring you from the area door,
which is a good distance away,
is a ton of lava. If you ever
fall into lava, quickly jump so
you take minimal damage and keep
jumping until you are out. Here,
however, you can simply jump
straight across the small
platforms in the lava.

Jump from platform to platform,
but realize that each one will
sink shortly after you jump on
it. You will have to go fairly
quickly to keep from getting
burned. After the lava, you will
see a door. However, it is not
yet time to go in it. First,
turn to the right with you scan
visor on. Against the wall, you
will see item to scan next to
the wall. It is only visible
while you are wearing your scan
visor. [53] Keep walking along
the wall, and you will come to
another one. [54]

At this point, turn around and
keep heading alongside the wall.
Go past the door and continue
along the wall. Your scan visor
should pick up on another item
worth scanning. Move around
until you can successfully scan
it, and then press the L button
to quickly see what the item is.
[55] Remember the last Missile
Expansion was hidden in a small
passageway so you could not scan
it, so this should be your first
Missile Expansion scan in which
you add it to the database.

Now, see the boxes close to the
part of the wall that holds the
Missile Expansion? Jump on top
of them. At the top, switch to
Morph Ball form. Roll into the
wall, and head right towards the
expansion. You will have to go
up a fairly large step, so lay a
power bomb. When it explodes,
you will shoot a small distance
into the air. Move forward at
this time to go up the step.
There is one other step before
the Missile Expansion, so do the
same thing. Press up to ensure
that you are snuggly against the
wall (if not you may hit a beam
and not go up very high) when
you use the power bomb. Go
forward onto the Missile
Expansion to increase your
missile capacity. (m2)

Having completed all the initial
stuff you need to do in the
first area of Alinos, go to the
door that you avoided to get the
missile expanion and the
datashade scans. Before you go
through it, scan the glowing
object above the door. [56]

Through the door, you will find
a hallway and door that leads
into Echo Hall. It is a fairly
peaceful area, but on the ground
on many plants (which, strangely
enough, you cannot scan) that
will harm you if you step on
them. Blast them to pieces to
ensure a safe passage.

Right at the first small drop in
the hall, put on your scan visor
and look at the wall to find a
blue square indicating an item
to scan. [57] Once you scan it,
proceed forward and also add the
spiny creatures on the wall to
your logbook. [58]

Have fun blowing up plants and
Zoomers as you move through the
hall. At the end, a small hole
will mark the exit. For this,
you need to enter Morph Ball
form. But before you go, put on
your scan visor and look to the
left wall in the area just
before the Morph Ball only
entrance. You will find an
additional scan. [59]

--------------------
Morph Ball Labyrinth
--------------------

With that out of the way, use
the Morph Ball form to go on
through the small path. It is a
labyrinth. As you enter, you
will be forced to go left, then
right. As soon as you go right,
go right yet again on the first
passageway you encounter. Follow
it all the way to the end and
turn left. Turn left at the end
of that area, and go a very
minute distance before you turn
left yet again in the closest
pathway. This pathway strays
from the traditional lava path,
so it should be easy to
recognize.

Go along that path until you
reach an area where you can
return to normal, biped form.
Shoot the three Zoomers to
death, and a Shield Key will
appear. Take it and return to
Morph Ball form. Go up the ramp
and continue until you reach the
lava portion of the labyrinth
again. Take the short S curve to
the left, and you will come to a
long, straight path. Go to the
end of that lava- covered path
and then turn right. You will
notice that this path has two
blue lines on either side of it.

Keep going along the solid path
until you reach the door. Use a
single power bomb to open the
door, and go straight to the end
of the path. Take a right, and
go until you reach the Energy
Tank. (e2) Backtrack from there
to the door, but do not go
through the door again. Instead,
take the path closest to the
door. Go along that path. The
end of it will seem like a dead
end, but if you use a power bomb
you can jump up onto a higher
path. Follow the higher path
until you reach a room where you
can stand back up, and then
return to biped form.

Since you already acquired the
Shield Key, the Artifact in the
middle of the room is yours for
the taking. Enjoy it. The boxes
in the room also hold powerups,
and one of them holds a new
powerup. It is the yellow energy
ball. Scan that one before you
procure it. [60] With newly
found strength, open the small
door in between the two blue
pillars, and go into Morph Ball
form to go through it.

The path itself is simple, but
at the end of it are several
ferocious enemies that look like
wasps. Change to normal, biped
form and quickly use your scan
visor on them. [61] Then, do not
hesitate to obliterate the
fiends with all the firepower
that you can muster.

When they are gone, go through a
few doors until you reach an
area with many, many Zoomers.
Blow them into pieces so that
the door at the end of the area
will unlock. Before you leave,
scan the yellow display on the
left side of the room. [62]
Afterwards, proceed to the next
Zoomer infested area. Once those
Zoomers die, another locked door
will be unlocked for you.

The narrow room past the two
Zoomer filled rooms has a few
items to scan, so have your
visor ready. There are two
things to scan on the right
wall, [63] [64] while the
display on the left wall is
simply the Flow Regulator, which
you already should have scanned.
Just like the Yellow Force
Field, you will not be able to
enter the Purple Force Field for
the time being. Leave it alone
and keep going.

Eventually you will reach a
circular room with what appears
to be several pieces of rock
suspended over lava. It is
actually something that you can
scan; you know what to do with
it. [65] Stand on top of it, and
you will notice that another
area is not too far above it.
Jump onto the higher area, and
you will encounter another
hunter.

Spire will immediately start
shooting you, as displayed by a
cutscene. You have to get out of
his range quickly. There are two
ramps near the hole (which is
now blocked off) you came out
of. At the top of one of the
ramps is an Artifact Shield.
That is not the one you want to
go up, so go up the one across
from it instead.

Run all the way up the ramp as
it slants. When it stops
slanting, make a U- turn and go
along the straight portion of
path that goes along the ramp.
Head over to the Yellow Force
Field, where you will be safe
from Spire's fury. Past the
force field, you should notice a
shaking mushroom type thing. It
is a new enemy, and one that you
can scan. [66] When you have
added it, the Blastcap, to the
logbook, shoot it from a
distance. After it explodes,
wait for the yellow clouds to
disappear before moving on.

Once the Blastcap is destroyed
and the yellow cloud has
vanished, walk past the place
where it was. To the right will
be a door, which you should
enter. It will leads to a
hallway, at the end of which is
another door. Past that door,
you will come to a small room.
To the left, you will notice yet
another Artifact Shield. Go to
the right, away from the shield.

You will get locked in a section
of the room, and a small
creature known as a Voldrum will
appear. Scan it, [67] and then
shoot it down. However, the
Voldrums are not the main
problem: the flashing blue
triangle that releases them is.
Focus all of your firepower on
the flashing blue triangle, for
when it is gone no more Voldrums
will appear. After the first one
is gone, look to the other side
of the room and you will find
another flashing blue triangle
to destroy. When both are gone
and the Voldrums are deceased, a
new foe will enter the room.

-----------
Spire Fight
-----------

Of course, Spire just had to
follow you in. Keep your cool in
this tight space, and you should
do fine. Look up, and you will
see Spire firing at you from a
hole in the ceiling. Aim up and
rapidly shoot at Spire with your
power beam (though missiles work
as well). After he has taken a
beating, he will jump down and
switch to his alt form. Remember
that you can scan bounty
hunters, so quickly scan him
before he has a chance to deal
you damage. [68] Do not forget
to scan his alt form as well, as
it is also registered in the
logbook. [69] Since Spire uses
close attacks when he is in his
alt form, keep moving around and
staying away from him. While you
move to stay out of his way,
pelt him with power beam.
Jumping is also an effective way
to avoid him when he comes near.

After enough hits, he will
abandon the room, leaving your
safe -- for a little while, that
is. Before you head on out, put
on your scan visor and scan the
switch that is in the room where
you just fought Spire. It will
create a Shield Key, which you
can take. Start to head out of
the room, but before you leave
this area inside the cliff, be
sure to grab the Artifact that
was guarded by the Artifact
Shield you noticed as you first
entered the room.

With that in your control, move
towards the great outdoors yet
again. It is time to dispatch
Spire to keep him from tampering
with your plans. Get your
missiles ready. Once you walk
outside, turn left and run along
the path next to the cliff. Run
to the very end of it and turn
right, at which time you will be
near Spire's shooting location.
Go over to him and rapidly fire
missiles. He will start to come
after you, but just keep on
shooting. If you run out of
missiles, then keep firing with
the power beam. Just keep on
moving away from him as he
approaches while staying close
enough to hit him, and you
should defeat him easily.

When he dies, he will leave
behind some health and the all-
important Shield Key. As soon as
you grab the key, the Artifact
Shield in this outdoor region
will disappear. Drop down onto
the ground and go up the ramp
that led to the Artifact Shield.
The shield will be gone of
course, so you can simply take
the Artifact it was protected.

Having acquired the third and
final Artifact, you will be
informed that the Stronghold
Portal has been activated. A
platform in the outdoor area
will also lower, allowing you to
reach the place where Spire
first shot at you from. But
before you continue onward,
there is a bit of housekeeping
to do. In all the rush of
fighting Spire, you did not have
a chance to get some much-needed
scans. Let us go back and gain
those first.

Fall from the ramp, and next to
the hole that you entered the
area from, you will see a small
wall. Put on your scan visor,
and you will notice an object to
scan just above the small wall.
[70] Beyond that is another item
to scan. This item is engraved
in the wall, so head over to it.
(Ignore the Psycho Bits that
will start swarming the area;
however, if they start to annoy
you then decimate the flashing
blue triangle that sends them
out, just like you did with the
Voldrums.) Scan the wall to add
yet another entry to your
logbook. [71]

On the other side of the room,
located above another small wall
jutting out, is another hidden
scan. You can only see it with
your scan visor on, so do not
forget it. [72] The wall juts
out from the structure where
Spire first shot at you in your
final battle against him, and
the place right next to where he
was firing has a Missile
Expansion. (m3) Be sure to
obtain it before you head on up
to the highest part of this
area.

Once you have those three scans
and the Missile Expansion, go
back to the ramp that led to the
Artifact. Continue follow the
ramp until you come to a
Blastcap. Deal with it just like
the previous one; kill it and
then wait for the toxic yellow
gas to subside before
continuing.

A short wall is next to the
Blastcap; jump onto it and you
will see the first platform you
need to get on. It is basically
right next to the wall, so you
can simply walk onto it. From
there, look around until you see
the next platform. Jump onto it,
and jump onto the one after it.
The jumps are fairly long and
you'll need good timing. After
the third platform, jump onto
the solid area where Spire shot
at you during the first
encounter. A door is there
between two blue pillars; go
through it.

Through the door you will come
to a hallway, and at the end of
the hallway is another door that
leads to a room. The first thing
you should notice in that room
is a small portal with a switch
to the right of it. Scan the
switch to activate the portal,
and use the portal to head back
to you ship and save if you
want. Right after this is the
boss battle, so saving would
probably be a good idea. After
you save at your ship, you can
return to where you were by
going back through the portal
that is to the left near your
ship.

Next to the small portal in the
room you will find the
Stronghold Portal. Hop on it to
head to the secret boss area. Go
straight across the walkway and
straight through the doors like
you did for the last boss
battle, and you will come to
your next masterful foe.

--------------
Boss: Slench 1
--------------

Slench is located in a long
room. When you first enter the
room, you are in no danger. Turn
to the right and scan the
glowing object next to the door
with your scan visor. [73] With
your visor still on, run towards
the boss. You will find two
places to scan: the boss itself
in part a, [74] and the little
blue light just beneath the
boss. [75]

As you will notice when you
approach the boss, it has three
tentacles sticking out of it.
One is just beneath it, while
the other two extend from the
right and left sides of it.
Start by shooting each tentacle
until it shrivels up and
disappears, and then move onto
the next tentacle. When all
three are gone, Slench will
detach from the wall and move
towards you in the air. That is
its b form, so you will need to
get another scan of that as
well. [76] Equip your missiles
for this part. Slench will turn
black, and you will see an eye
in the middle of the sphere that
makes up Slench.

Using several missiles, shoot
Slench in the eye as many times
as you can before it returns to
the wall. When it does, you will
have to shoot all of the
tentacles again to make it move
away from the wall and turn
black. With the superior damage
the missiles cause, you will
reduce his health in no time.
Hitting Slench is somewhat
difficult since it moves around
so much, so you have to get
fairly close and anticipate
where it is moving when you
fire.

As his health goes down, Slench
will start moving faster and
faster in the air. This will
make him harder to hit, but with
a close and steady aim you can
do it. Staying near to Slench is
a big part of being able to land
a missile in its eye. Continue
fighting in this manner until
Slench is destroyed; since its
attacks are weak you should
focus more on damaging it
quickly instead of avoiding its
attacks against you.

As Slench disappears into
oblivion, another Octolith will
appear. Take the Octolith and
the health that is scattered
around the boss chamber. When
you have everything, head out
through the large doors and
prepare for another fast escape.

"...The cannon holds the
power..."

------------------
Escape from Alinos
Time: 4:30 Minutes
------------------

If the fact you only get just
about half the time for this
escape than you did for the
Celestial Archives escape is
disturbing you, rest assured
that this is much shorter.
Actually, you can probably
evacuate Alinos with more time
remaining than you had as you
left the Celestial Archives.
Nevertheless, there is no time
to dawdle, especially with other
hunters still lurking about.

Run straight across the desolate
pathway until you reach the
massive portal that will take
you to the regular part of
Alinos. Once you go through it,
walk straight and fall through
that hole that is in front of
where you appear. Turn around
when you land, and quickly head
outside (this is where you first
fought Spire, so you should know
how to get out).

Outside you will notice the
large hole in the middle is now
open. Drop through it, and
quickly head down the only path
that is not blocked by a Yellow
Force Shield. The path from
there is very linear, so just
run straight down the hallways
and go through the doors. Be
sure to ignore the force
shields, since you cannot do
anything with them yet. Focus on
going through the doors.

You will soon enter the room
filled with War Wasps. Rather
than mess with them, change to
the Morph Ball and roll straight
across the room, all the way
into the small passageway.
Continue through the passageway
until you reach a door. Use a
power bomb to open it, and then
roll into the room after the
door. At once, you will switch
to biped form and you will see
Weavel blocking your path. It is
time for another hunter fight,
only this one is much more
urgent.

------------
Weavel Fight
------------

Start off by scanning Weavel
just to get him in your logbook.
[77] With that out of the way,
start pouring a barrage of
firepower towards him. Strafe
around the room to avoid his
shots while continuously firing
your own. When he switches to
his alternate form, half of him
will move while the other half
will remain in one place as a
turret. Before you begin attack
his alt form, remember to add it
to the logbook. [78] You can
cause him damage by hitting
either half, though the turret
is easiest to hit since it is
stationary. Try to avoid taking
much damage by moving around,
and focus your firepower on the
turret. Once you have dealt
enough damage, Weavel will run
away.

Before you chase after him, blow
apart the boxes in the room to
gain a ton of health and some
missiles. You will notice that
one of the Morph Ball paths has
been opened; change to your
alternate form (the Morph Ball)
and head through it.

Soon you will reach the end of
the path, and you will find
yourself way close to the
beginning of the level, in Echo
Hall. Weavel is there, and he is
ready to fight. Well, it is time
to show your superiority. Pull
out your missiles and begin
bombarding him. Keep your
distance obviously, but focus as
many missiles as you can towards
Weavel. It will not take that
many missiles to eliminate him,
and then your path will be open
yet again.

Backtrack through Echo Hall in
your normal form, avoiding the
many treacherous plants that are
on the ground. At the end of the
hall, you will find a door that
you can open. Beyond that is a
hallway and another door, and
after that door is the open area
where you landed your ship. See,
it isn't that far away. Jump
across the platforms in the
lava, run up the stairs, and
then jump on top of your ship.
Once on top, you will be able to
enter the ship and save your
progress. Another Octolith is
safely in your possession:
Congratulations!

[51] Alinos
[52] Magma Station
[53] Alimbic Datashade 01
[54] Alimbic Datashade 02
[55] Missile Expansion
[56] Alimbic Prophecy 02
[57] Exposed Rebar
[58] Zoomer
[59] History 01
[60] Large Energy
[61] War Wasp
[62] Flow Regulator
[63] Interment Chamber
[64] Purple Force Field
[65] Magma Vent
[66] Blastcap
[67] Voldrum
[68] Spire
[69] Dialanche
[70] Battle Sarcophagus
[71] Alimbic Scripture
[72] Science Sarcophagus
[73] Biodefense Chamber B
[74] Slench 1a
[75] Energy Blaster
[76] Slench 1b
[77] Weavel
[78] Half Turret

=========================
D. Vesper Defense Outpost
=========================

A small outpost in the upper
right corner of the Tetra
Galaxy, the Vesper Defense
Outpost will show up on your
screen one you have retrieved
the Octolith from Alinos. It is
the third planet on your
destination list; and it holds
yet another valuable object.

When you first land on the
outpost, you will notice a
unique landing area. It will
look like the landing pad is
suspended above nothingness, but
if you look down from it you
will see that it is actually
safe to drop down from it,
though you should never have to
do that.

Walk off the front of your ship
and immediately scan the blue
display panel that is there.
[101] Once you have that scan,
head down the ramp that is to
the left of the display. Go all
the way down the ramp, and start
heading right. You will notice a
small object on the ground
emitting a pulsing white light.
This is merely a jump pad, and
if you step on it it will launch
you towards a walkway just above
your ship. The only things on
the walkway are portals that you
will activate later on, so
ignore the jump pad for now.

Continue past the jump pad, and
you will reach a door. Above the
door is a glowing blue light,
which you should scan. [102]
Then, proceed through the door.
Keep going until you reach a
room with many, many Petrasyls
flying about. Using your trusty
power beam, obliterate them all.
This isn't exactly necessary,
but it make for some great fun.

Before you leave the room that
had several Petrasyls, pull out
your scan visor. The fuel rod
structure in the middle you can
scan, [103] and you can scan all
four displays on either side of
the fuel rod. [104] [105] [106]
[107] Once you have scanned all
five objects in the room,
continue onward.

Past the basic hallway, you will
come to a room with a hallway
extending to the left from it.
Travel along it as it slopes
downward. Put your scan visor on
and look to the ground as it
slops down, and you will notice
that there is a part of it you
can scan. [108] Then, when it
becomes flat, put your scan
visor on again and look to the
ceiling. Attached to the ceiling
is a different version of the
Alimbic Turret, so you should
scan it. [109] With its
destruction complete, go over to
where it was located.

To the left will be two glowing
blue pillars. In between the
pillars is a door that the Morph
Ball can go through. To the
right is a large door. For now,
switch to Morph Ball form and
use a bomb to open the door so
that you can go through it. Roll
through the path and go through
any doors you encounter with the
help of power bombs (sometimes
you will have to lay more than
one power bomb if your first one
does not trigger the door; lay
it in a different spot near the
door).

Soon, you will arrive in an icy
area where you see the Morph
Ball from the side. Instead of
pressing forward to go, as you
normally do, here you will press
left and right. However, don't
get too excited and start
heading forward. You need to go
up first. Upon entering the icy
room, you will see a platform in
the air. Go beside the platform
and lay a power bomb. Stay
there, and when it explodes
press left to get onto the
platform. This may require some
practice.

Go on up all three platforms,
and then you will come to
another spot where you need to
use a power bomb to get onto an
area. Unfortunately, a green
laser beam occasionally appears,
which will harm you. Remain next
to the wall the leads to the
higher area, and wait until the
green laser appears. Wait a
second or two, and lay a power
bomb. By the time the bomb
explodes, the green laser will
be gone and you will be safe.

Carefully make your way past the
next two green lasers, and be
sure to drop down and follow the
path as you go. It will start
heading right, and you will come
to a Missile Expansion. (m4) Do
not hesitate to use a power bomb
to reach it, and once you have
it fall to the platform that was
beneath the missile expansion
and start heading left.

The path leads to an elevator
platform which moves up and
down. Wait for it to come up as
high as it will go, and then
quickly roll across it onto the
next solid platform. You will
then see a jump pad. Roll over
onto the jump pad, and it will
shoot you to a very high ledge
(it would be a good idea to
watch the green lasers that
extend horizontally so that you
can time your jump to avoid
hitting them)

On the high ledge after the jump
pads, roll to the left and you
will resume normal Morph Ball
view again. Speed through the
pathway until you finally reach
an area where you can stand up;
return to biped form once you
are there. After you get back in
normal form, turn around and
look at the path that you just
came through. It will be blocked
by a Green Force Field. Since
this is the first time you have
encountered such a field, scan
it. [110] Having scanned that,
keep your scan visor on and turn
back around. You will see
multiple objects to scan, but
first scan the tank in the
center of the room. [111]

The remaining objects are
switches, and you will have to
scan all four of them if you
ever want to be free of the
chamber. A platform will then
lift up into the room. On it is
a floating green sphere. Use
your scan visor on the green
sphere before you take it. [112]
You will discover that it is the
Battlehammer, a fairly strong
sub-weapon. Take it and add it
to your equipment by simply
walking over it. You can equip a
sub-weapon by tapping on the
sub-weapon icon located on the
upper right portion of the touch
screen, right next to the
missile and power beam icons.

-----------------------
Battlehammer Collected!
-----------------------

With it equipped, move away from
the place where you obtained the
Battlehammer. Wait a few
seconds, and a small green thing
will appear where the
Battlehammer was. It is simply
more ammo (which you should not
need), but it is something that
you should scan. [113] Then,
turn to face the Green Force
Field. Stand a short distance
away, and hit the force field
guard node with the Battlehammer
(that's the small object that
moves across the face of the
force field). It will explode,
and the Green Force Field will
vanish. Talk about power.

Leave the same way you entered,
in Morph Ball form. When you
reach the large, icy room, drop
down and press right the entire
time you fall. You want to land
just to the right of the jump
pad so you are not suddenly
force back up to the ledge. Keep
going right, and roll right
across the elevator platform
when it goes up.

When you can go right no further
and are at the place where the
Missile Expansion was, use a
power bomb to get onto the
slightly higher ledge, which
leads to the left. On that
ledge, you will see two glowing
blue pillars. Go in between them
and press up. You will soon
discover that there is actually
a Morph Ball path in between the
two blue pillars. Follow the
path until you reach a place
where you can stand up, and then
return to biped form.

The room you enter houses the
Stronghold Portal. It's a shame
that you have not acquired any
Artifacts yet. On the left wall,
you will discover two Green
Force Fields, which you know you
can obliterate using the
Battlehammer. Resist your
temptation to decimate them for
now, and activate your scan
visor. On the opposite side of
the room from the force fields,
next to the Stronghold Portal, a
bluish object will appear that
you can scan. [114]

Now you can fulfill your desires
and remove the Green Force
Fields. Either one will work,
since they both lead to the
exact same room. Go into the
room that used to be guarded by
the force fields, and prepare
for a fight. First off,
eliminate the turret in the
center of the room; it is
suspended from the ceiling.
Then, focus your attention of
the two flashing blue triangles
on the ceiling that produce
green Psycho Bits. Once they are
both gone, destroy any remaining
Psycho Bits that in are in the
room.

With the enemies gone, it is
time for some scanning. At the
end of the room is a box. Of
course, you could destroy the
box, but that would be unwise.
Instead, jump on the box and
from there, jump onto the ledge
that is just above the box. On
that ledge is a switch that will
deactivate a few force fields.
Scan the switch to use it. If
you destroy the box, you will
have to repeatedly jump into the
air while trying to scan the
switch, and that is a pain to
do. You can succeed, but it is
troublesome. After the switch
has been scanned, hop down and
take out the box. It will
probably have some ammo in it.

However, scanning still is not
complete. Stand where the box
was and face the wall. Then turn
to the right. You will see a
blue hologram to scan. [115]
After that, go to the center of
the room with your scan visor on
and scan the other blue hologram
that is in the middle above the
solid platform. [116] Also, on a
ledge at the top of the room,
you will be able to spot one
last hologram. [117] Finally, in
between the two room entrances
that were previously protect by
Green Force Fields, you will
find a switch. Once it has been
scanned, a few more force fields
will dissipate.

What are you to do next? Leave!
Go back through the Morph Ball
door, roll along the path, and
continue until you reach the icy
room. Inside the icy room, roll
along and head to the snow
covered floor of the room. When
you reach it, roll to the left.
Watch out for the enemy that you
may meet, and use a power bomb
to free yourself should the
dastardly creature grab you. At
the edge of the room, continue
left and you will enter a small
passageway.

At the end of that passageway is
a normal room; once you reach
it, switch back to normal, biped
form. In this room are two blue
triangles that release Psycho
Bits, however, these are updated
Psycho Bits. Before you fight
this newer version, use your
scan visor to add it to the
logbook alongside the older
version. [118] Since these
Psycho Bits are powerful, you do
not want to fight many of them.
Their shots will freeze you.
Continuously move to avoid
getting hit, and destroy the two
blue triangles that release the
Psycho Bits. Once the triangles
blow up, strafe to avoid getting
frozen while continuously
blasting at the Psycho Bits.
Upon their death, you will be
able to relax.

In the center of the room, there
is a large platform that goes up
really high. The base of it has
a small hole that the Morph Ball
can fit in, and in that hole is
a green container. It is another
super powerup, just like the
Energy Tank and the Missile
Expansion. It is the Universal
Ammo (UA) Expansion, which
increases how much ammo you can
hold. Since this is the first
time you see one, use your scan
ability on it. [119] Then,
switch over to the Morph Ball
and roll into it to obtain it.

On one side of the room, three
tiny holes will mark the
entrance to another room. These
were originally protected by
force fields, but you have
already disabled those force
fields. As the Morph Ball, go
through any of the three holes
that you want. In the room you
enter, a Lesser Ithrak will drop
down from the ceiling and chase
you. Become a biped again and
blast away at the Lesser Ithrak,
all the while keeping your
distance. Upon its death, a
Shield Key will appear in the
middle of the room.

It will disable the force fields
on the opposite side of the room
from the holes. Walk past the
place where the force fields
were, and you will see a small
passage in the wall. Instead of
rushing into the passage, use
your scan visor and you will
find a hologram to add to the
logbook. [120]. Then, you need
to figure out how to get into
the small passage. By now, you
should be a pro at this: Use the
Morph Ball! A jump pad in the
passage will boost you up to the
floor above the place where you
were. Once you reach the end of
the small passageway, change
back to your regular, biped
form.

At the end of the room you will
enter, you will see an Artifact.
While the urge will be to run up
and grab it, do not do that yet.
Instead, put on the scan visor.
When you do, an invisible blue
hologram will appear in the
center of the room, which you
should scan. [121] Then, move
forward and collect the
Artifact.

The force field just beyond the
Artifact will disappear once you
collect the Artifact, and a
Guardian will appear on the
floor below you. Drop through
the hole beyond the Artifact,
and start firing at the
Guardian. Missiles are
particularly effective, though
the power beam or the
Battlehammer will also suffice.
When the Guardian dies, the
force field that comprises most
of the floor will disappear.
More likely than not, you will
be on the force field when it
vanishes and you will fall to
the lowest floor. If you do not
fall, then simply jump down to
the lowest floor.

Go to the room where you fought
the advanced version of the
Psycho Bits and obtain that UA
Expansion. (UA1) In that room is
a door that only the Morph Ball
can go through. You went through
this same door to enter the
room, now use the door to leave
the room by using a power bomb
next to it.

Having collected the first
Artifact, get out of that entire
area! Roll all the way through
the passageway, going through
doors until you reach the icy
room. In the icy room, just roll
straight to the right until you
are all the way through it. You
will roll into the passageway
that you first used to enter the
icy area. Go all the way through
it until you are safely back in
the hallway near the beginning
of the level.

If you want to take a break,
head back up the hallway and
back to your ship, where you can
save. If you are ready to keep
going, change to your biped form
and walk straight through the
entryway across from the Morph
Ball door.

In the large room through the
entryway, you will find two blue
triangles that emit Psycho Bits
as well as an Artifact Shield.
Destroy the blue triangles as
fast as you can, and then focus
on defeating all of the
remaining Pyscho Bits. They are
the old version, so you should
be able to conquer them fairly
quickly.

Once the Psycho Bits and the
spawning triangles are out of
the picture, the huge force
field making up most of the
floor of the room will
deactivate. Drop down to the
area you have just opened up.
Two Lesser Ithraks will threaten
you, but by walking backwards
and consistently shooting them
you can eliminate them with two
much trouble Upon their death, a
Shield Key will appear on the
ground. Take it. Along with
making the Artifact Shield
vanish, the key will also make
the platform in the center of
the pit that you dropped into
move up and down, providing a
way of escape.

Walk onto the platform when it
is down, and ride it to the next
floor. From there, you will need
to jump a good distance to make
it onto solid ground. After
that, you are free to obtain
your next Artifact. When you
have the second Artifact, put on
your scan visor and go to the
other three corners of the room.
In each of the three corners,
you will find a hologram to
scan. [122] [123] [124] It is
sometimes hard to notice them
from a distance, so you have to
make an effort to reach every
single corner.

Next, stroll along the room
until you come to a passage that
is blocked by a Green Force
Field. You know what to do with
these -- pull out your
Battlehammer and have at it. In
room past the passage, you will
meet up with a really weird
creature that you should scan.
[125] It is vital that you
destroy this foe to continue,
but you have to take a unique
approach.

Move next to the Crash Pillar so
it takes notice of you, and very
slowly back away as it
approaches you. Make sure that
you have your missiles equipped,
and look into the air. Once it
is near you, the Crash Pillar
will jump above your, revealing
its circuit filled underside.
Shoot a missile straight into it
before it falls. Then, try to
evade it as it falls, which is
really hard to do. Three
missiles directed at its
circuits should do the trick,
though you need to realize you
could take significant damage if
you fail to move out of the way.

The platform where the Crash
Pillar was originally stationed
will start to move up and down,
permitting you to advance to the
next highest floor. Before you
head on up, pull out your scan
visor and scan the door beyond
the platform, [126] as well as
the glowing blue circle above
it. [127] When those two items
have been scanned, hop onto the
platform and ride it to the next
floor. Then, depart from it.

Before you head off down the
only hallway you can go through,
take a moment to observe the
portal next to the place where
you left the platform. Scan the
switch just above it, and the
portal will start working. Since
the next area will contain one
of your toughest fights so far,
you might want to use the portal
to make a quick stop at your
ship to save and restock. As you
learned at the beginning of this
planet's walkthrough, the jump
pads in that first area bounce
you to a walkway above the ship
where the portals are located.
Once you have resupplied, use
the jump pads to head back
through the portal.

When you are all powered up, run
down the hallway. It will take
you to another part of the
complex, and in this section
lays a great challenge. As the
hallway forces you to make a
sharp turn to the right, get
prepared. Upon reaching that
portion of the hallway, a
cutscene will display your
latest fiend.

------------
Sylux Battle
------------

Of course, the first thing you
will want to do is to use your
scan visor to add Sylux to your
database. [128] Afterwards, you
will begin a long, hard fight.
Sylux's main weapon is the Shock
Coil, which is a constant
electric beam that sucks your
energy out and gives it to
Sylux. He is a superb aim, and
nearly every single second your
health will be zapped from you.
The battle takes places in four
corridors that make up a square,
and few obstacles will protect
you.

Since Sylux is so good at
shooting and avoiding your
shots, you will not want to use
a super powerful weapon like
missiles or the Battlehammer for
this portion of the fight.
Instead, frequently use your
power beam to hit him with all
the frequency you can muster.
Strafing and jumping to avoid
attacks are useful, but since he
is such a good aim it will be
hard for you to get away. Your
main focus should be on causing
him as much damage as you can,
though you should put some
effort in to avoid being zapped.

Once he switches into his
alternate form, you know that
you have caused him some damage.
However, you still have a long
ways to go. Start off by
scanning his alternate form.
[129] Then, stay a good distance
away and pelt him using your
power beam. In his alt form,
Sylux lays deadly electric
beams. Avoid them at all costs.
After a good deal of fighting,
when Sylux is about half dead,
he will run into a room in the
center of the square you have
been battling in.

Instead of quickly following him
in, take this time to regain
some strength. There are a total
of three boxes in the corridor
square, and two of them have
Medium Energy in them. Also,
right before the door that leads
to the room where Sylux is,
there are two structures
consisting of three blue tanks.
You can scan either one of these
structures (both of them are the
same thing), [130] so do that
before going to resume your
Sylux fight.

Now that that is out of the way,
equip your missiles and prepare
for an epic battle. Inside the
room, Sylux will quickly release
a barrage of electricity towards
you. To get him to stop, hit him
with a missile. It is much
easier this time because he does
not dodge as well, though you
may still have a difficult time
landing a shot.

When he suffers the great damage
caused by a missile, Sylux will
temporarily resort to his alt
form, which cannot hurt you as
much. Continue shooting him with
missiles, and when he returns
yet again to biped form then
simply hit him again to get him
to switch. While you can damage
Sylux without much trouble, it
is utterly important that you
continuously move to avoid his
electricity as much as possible.

Eventually, his large, blue ship
will fly above the area where
you are fighting and it will
start shooting at you. Yes, the
duel is intense, but you need to
take this time to switch to your
scan visor and examine his ship.
[131] Having entered it into
your logbook by scanning, you
will be able to resume the
fight.

Should your health ever run low,
blast apart the boxes in the
room to discover energy and
missiles. Once you have fully
depleted your missile supply
(though it is more than possible
to beat Sylux and have missiles
left over), switch to the
Battlehammer. If that runs out
of ammo, change to the power
beam for the kill. If you
constantly hit Sylux so he
cannot shoot his electricity at
you much, you should defeat him
fairly easily. However, if he
kills you then you will lose an
Octolith and have to start back
at the last checkpoint. It is
simply to regain the Octolith;
just fight Sylux again. When
Sylux is severely damaged, he
will retreat to his ship and fly
away.

As he disappears, a force field
leading to the initial corridor
square will go away, allowing
your to head back to the place
where you first fought Sylux. A
Shield Key will also appear on
the ground in the room you are
in; grab it to eliminate the
force field in another room
connected to the corridor square
-- a room that holds an
Artifact.

Walk around the square until you
find the opening leading to the
Artifact room (it is near where
you first met Sylux). Go through
the now open entryway, and go
close to the Artifact. It is
merely a Cartograph Artifact,
which you should have scanned in
the first level, so grab it and
head out. Go back up the hallway
that first led you into the
corridor square, and go over to
the portal. The boss is next, so
I would highly recommend that
you stop by your ship for a
quick regaining of strength and
weapons. Then return to the
portal.

Drop down through the hole in
the floor, and go to where you
snatched the second Artifact.
Finally, head to the door in the
hallway that is in between two
blue pillars and is only
accessed by the Morph Ball. You
should remember it; after all,
you did see the Stronghold
Portal in a room accessed
through this Morph Ball
passageway.

Enter the passageway as the
Morph Ball, and go straight
through it. In the icy room,
just go all the way to the left
until you are back in a small,
enclosed passageway. Even when
you enter a normal room, stay in
Morph Ball form and head to the
right. Go through the one of the
three small holes in the wall.

They will take you to another
room. Roll straight across the
room, and behind a large wall
near the edge of the room you
will find yet another Morph Ball
passageway. Enter it; it
contains the jump pad that
shoots you up two floors. After
you are in the room past the
jump pad, switch back to regular
biped form.

Walk forward and fall through
the massive hole in the room.
When you land, turn all the way
around. There is the Stronghold
Portal. Teleport to the boss
area using the portal, and then
run all the way across the
desolate walkway until you reach
the boss room. Another tiresome
battle is about to begin.

------------------
Boss: Cretaphid v2
------------------

Yes, the terrible pillar is back
again, only now it is in an
updated form. If you know what
you are doing; however, it is
really easy to take down this
security device without taking
much damage. The fight is
tedious though, so be mentally
prepared.

First, scan the boss so the
newest version is in your
logbook. [132] That is all you
need to scan this time; you are
again fighting in Biodefense
Chamber A, and you should have
scanned that into your logbook
during your first Cretaphid
tussle.

This time, you have to disable
all of the nodes on Cretaphid's
structure to make the blue box
appear. They will alternate
between red and blue colors, and
you can only eliminate them when
they are blue. While you fight,
the various nodes will all
release plasma, which will seek
you out.

To avoid taking damage, simply
walk around the pillar in a
constant manner. Always face the
pillar so you can take out the
nodes; however, continue to
strafe around in. By continually
moving in a single direction,
you will successfully evade
every single plasma attack. If
you do take damage, however, you
can recover it by collecting the
powerups that some of the nodes
will release. Simply charge up
your power beam (or any other
weapon you have, for that
matter), and the powerups will
come straight into you.

Keep shooting the nodes until
every single one is blacked out.
Then, the infamous blue,
holographic box will emerge from
the top of the pillar. Its
attacks are ultra deadly, and
you do not want to get hit by
them. Instantly switch to
missiles when it appears, and
continue to walk around the
pillar while facing it at the
same time. Shoot several
missiles at the blue box, and
you will cause significant
damage to Cretaphid.

If you have trouble switching to
missiles in the heat of battle
as the last nodes fades out and
the blue box comes out, I would
recommend switching right before
you hit the final node. Disable
the last node with a missile,
and then you will be in perfect
position to look towards the top
of the pillar and deal a good
number of hits to the blue box.

Soon the box will return to the
safety found inside the pillar,
and all of the nodes will light
back up. Do the exact same thing
you did last time; walk around
the pillar and knock out the
nodes. When you do that, the box
will appear yet again and you
can have another chance to blast
it with missiles. Unlike the
other Cretaphid, this version
does not significantly change
when you damage it, other than
possibly the release of more
plasma. So, simply repeat the
same routine over and over until
it explodes. Since you have to
constantly run around the
pillar, this battle becomes very
tedious as well as very
dizzying. Eventually, though,
the boss will die and you will
be free from the madness known
as Cretaphid v2.

Upon his defeat, a cutscene will
reveal a magnificent explosion
as Cretaphid disappears into
nothingness. It will be replaced
by a single, brilliant Octolith.
Grab the Octolith and the three
energy items in the room, and
then head out for yet another
intense escape.

"...Do not trust your senses...
they deceive you..."

--------------------------------
Escape from Vesper Defense
Outpost Time: 3 Minutes
--------------------------------

So it may not sound like much
time, but three minutes is
actually about three times the
time you will realistically need
to escape. That leaves will
plenty of room to play around,
though you will still need to
stay on your toes.

Start by running across the
walkway to the Stronghold
Portal, as you do with every
escape mission. Upon going
through the Stronghold Portal,
head to the left and drop down
to the lower floor. There, turn
into the Morph Ball and head
through one of the three holes
that leads into the next room. A
Guardian will be there to hinder
your progress, and if you choose
you can switch to biped form at
this time to dispatch the
Guardian.

That is not exactly necessary
though, as you can simply suffer
a few attacks from the Guardian
as you lay a power bomb to open
the Morph Ball door in the room
that you just entered. When the
power bomb explodes and the door
opens, roll quickly into the
passageway.

Boost through the passageway,
all the way until you reach the
icy room. Continue your journey
and head straight to the right.
Keep going all the way to the
opposite side of the icy room,
where you will enter another
Morph Ball passageway. Roll
straight through there until
your reach the main hallway.
Immediately turn to the right
and head up the hallway.

At the end of the hallway, you
will come to a closed door.
Here, switch back to biped form
and shoot the door open. Through
the next few doors you will only
find hallways and a small room
with wimpy enemies in it, so run
past the doors as quickly as you
can. As you through the fourth
sealed door in this part of the
complex, you will find yourself
back at the landing area. Run up
the ramp leading to your ship,
jump onto your ship, and stand
in the center of it so that you
can enter it. You will be able
to save and then leave the
Vesper Defense Outpost, your
mission there completed -- for
now.

[101] VDO
[102] Alimbic Prophecy 03
[103] Fuel Rod
[104] Spore Farm
[105] Lab Equipment
[106] Mixing Tanks
[107] Clone Engine
[108] Frozen Fuel Line
[109] Alimbic Turret v1.4
[110] Green Force Field
[111] Cortex Chamber
[112] Battlehammer
[113] Large UA Pack
[114] History 07
[115] History 05
[116] History 06
[117] Alimbic War 10
[118] Psycho Bit v4.0
[119] UA Expansion
[120] Oubliette 08
[121] History 08
[122] Octolith Safeguard
[123] History 03
[124] History 04
[125] Crash Pillar
[126] Red Blast Shield
[127] Alimbic Prophecy 07
[128] Sylux
[129] Lockjaw
[130] Gestation Tanks
[131] Delano 7
[132] Cretaphid v2

===========
E. Arcterra
===========

This massive planet on the far
right of the Tetra Galaxy is a
frozen wasteland, left desolate
for many centuries. It holds the
fourth Octolith along with
plenty of surprises. Keep your
arm cannon ready throughout this
entire mission.

As you land, you will notice
that you are on a large platform
high in the air. If you fall off
the platform, you will drop a
very long distance and take
considerable damage. Even though
the door out of this area is on
the ground, do not simply jump
off the platform. You will miss
valuable scans, and you will be
unfamiliar with the path leading
down when you have to quickly
escape from Arcterra.

First, walk off your ship and
glance over to the left. A
small, white display is there.
It contains useful information
about Arcterra, so scan it.
[151] When that is done, begin
walking across the platforms
just in front of the your ship.
They will lead into the cliff,
but before you go into the cliff
put your scan visor on. Look at
the glowing blue circle above
the entrance into the cliff, and
scan it. [152]

Then, walk into the cliff. The
path is merely a hallway that
goes down a short ways, so you
have nothing to fear. It will
soon lead you out to a lower
portion outside. Walk along the
path next to the cliff, and
follow it until it stops. To
your right will be another path,
though there is a short gap to
it.

Notice the two spiny creatures
on the path to the right. They
appear to be Zoomers, but that
is not the case. Use your scan
visor to identify them and add
them to the logbook. [153] Now,
jump over to the path with the
Geemers, Run across the end of
the short path, and you will
find yet another path only a
short gap away. The end of the
path with the two Geemers comes
very quickly and is hard to see,
so be watchful. Jump over the
gap onto the next pathway.

Be sure to follow the path as it
stays next to the cliff wall. On
the cliff wall, you will easily
find a large X with an orange
circle in the center of the X.
This is an Alimbic Crest, which
you can scan. [154] Continue
along the path after that is
done until you come to a dead
end. At that point, stand on the
flat ground and look around. A
Shriekbat is located here, and
it will come down from the
ceiling and smash into you,
killing itself in the process.
Be sure to scan it before it
self-destructs, [155] or else
you might have to head back to
your ship and come out again to
make it reappear. If that is too
much hassle for you, there are
easier Shriekbats to scan during
your second visit to Alinos;
just make sure you remember to
scan them when you are there.

After that, turn to the right,
away from the cliff wall, and
you will see a choppy path of
loosely connected platforms
leading to the ground. Well,
that's your route, so hop down
the platforms until you are
safely on the ground.

There is nothing of interest on
the ground, except for a few
boxes that hold items to
replenish your health and ammo
should either have decreases on
your journey down. Since the
ground holds nothing important,
walk around until you find the
door located in the cliff wall.
Go through it and the door that
is directly after it.

The area you enter will be
covered in snow, and directly in
front of you will be an orange
circle on the wall. It is much
like the circle in the center of
the Alimbic Crest, but this one
is alone. Since it is different,
pull out your scan visor to
identify it and add it to your
logbook. [156]

As you move further into the
room, sounds of laser fire will
grace your ears. It sounds as if
a duel is raging. Walk towards
the entryway at the other side
of the room, and a cutscene will
show you what is going on. Both
Noxus and Trace are in the area
outside of the room, blasting
each other with their
sophisticated weapons.

-----------
Noxus Fight
-----------

Well, Trace is a sniper so he is
high in the air, safely away
from both you and Noxus. Because
of Noxus's close proximity, you
will have to defeat him. Trace
will constantly snipe at either
of you, so stay out of his
range. Remember, Noxus can be
scanned, so use your scan visor
against him before you start the
real battle. [157]

For this fight, missiles are
your best bet. They will deal
Noxus plenty of damage. As you
start to head out of the room,
Noxus will run towards you. The
confined room actually is not
that bad of a battle arena, so
just stay there. Keep a decent
distance between you and Noxus
so as not to get injured by your
own missiles, and let him have
it!

One of his main attacks will be
to use the charged Judicator to
attempt to freeze you. Well, it
takes time to charge weapons so
you can blast him to shreds
while he prepares for a single
shot. However, make sure that
you are constantly jumping and
moving around so that when he
does fire, you are not hit are
frozen. You will remain frozen
for a while after a hit, and
during that time he can pound
you with shots.

Sometimes, Noxus will switch
over to the alternate form. In
this form, which you must
remember is something that you
can scan, [158] he will have
tiny spinning blades that can
slice enemies that are close. To
stay safe, move as far away from
Noxus as you can. If he
approaches you, jump over him
and you will escape taking
damage by his treacherous
blades. While he is in this
form, continue to smash him with
missiles.

If he ever leaves the room, do
not follow. Noxus will go and
stand at the opposite end of the
area from the exit of the room,
but he will not do anything. He
will just stand there, even if
you move to the edge of the room
and look directly at him. This
provides for some easy hits. Aim
directly at Noxus and start
rapidly firing missiles at him.
It will take him a second or two
to realize that you are
obliterating him, and during
that time you can score much
need hits. In return, Noxus will
fire back at you, but you can
fire much quickly that he can,
so stand your ground. Soon he
will return to the room, and you
will have to use the same
techniques mentioned above to
continue the battle and destroy
him.

When Noxus is dead, Trace will
flee and you will no longer have
to worry about him. The force
field in the room you are in
will also deactivate. As you
look at the place where the
force field was, you will
realize that the room is
actually a long corridor. Green
Psycho Bits will start firing at
your from further on down the
corridor, and you will be
obliged to take them out. Run
over to them, and first destroy
the blue triangle that releases
them. Then decimate the Psycho
Bits.

Continue further on down the
corridor, and to the left you
will find an Alimbic Turret
firing at you. A couple power
beam shots later it will
explode. Beyond the turret is an
object that you can scan.
Although it is only 1 of 6
unlockable locks in the area, of
which are not added to your
logbook, it is important for
progressing through the level.

Advance to the end of the
corridor, and you will locate a
sealed door. Jump up to the
sealed door, and turn to the
right. You will see that the
corridor continues, but you have
to jump up to the next portion
of the corridor. Use your best
skill to jump up to the higher
part of the corridor. You will
need to continue onward soon,
but before you do, turn to the
right and look at the wall with
your scan visor on. You should
notice another proxy lock that
you can unlock by scanning, so
do that immediately. Then, you
may carry on.

Off to the right as you go along
the next part of the corridor,
you should hear laser fire. Look
off the side of the ledge, and
you will see little Voldrums
attempting to fire at you. A
blue triangle will also be
there, ready to produce more
Voldrums to make up for any that
you destroy. The Voldrums will
have a hard time hitting you so
high in the air, so take this
time to eliminate the flashing
blue triangle and the Voldrums

Move on, and you will come to a
purplish door. Scan it so you
can identify what it is being
protected by. [159] Even though
it is obvious that it is guarded
by a Purple Blast Shield, and
even though the colored force
field and shield entries are not
added to your logbook, it is
good to scan it just for future
reference.

To the right, the corridor will
slant upward. Follow it all the
way up until you see a doorway
to the right that leads outside.
Walk onto the bridge that is
outside, and again you will hear
laser fire from Voldrums. These
will be to the left of you, and
they will be way down at the
bottom of the area. Shoot the
flashing blue triangle till it
is gone, and then proceed to
blow up the Voldrums.

Bringing your focus back to the
bridge that you are on, activate
your scan visor. Look to the
pillar next to the right side of
the bridge, and you will find
two items to scan. One is the
bridge itself, [160] and the
other is another proxy lock,
which you should scan to unlock.

On the pillars on the opposite
end of the bridge are two more
proxy locks, but you cannot scan
them from where you are because
they are facing away from you.
To makes matters a little bit
worse, the center of the bridge
is out. You will have to jump
across. Do not worry if you
fall; you can simply go into the
corridor where you fought Noxus.
Near the middle of the first
section of the corridor, off to
the side, you will find a tiny
area where a moving platform
goes up and down. You can simply
ride on the platform up to the
top, and when you get off of it
you will be on the side of the
bridge with the two proxy locks.

At any rate, make sure you get
the two proxy locks scanned,
since it unlocks them. There is
something in between the two
locks that you can scan, but it
is just the damaged bridge,
which you should have already
scanned. Now you will have five
of the six locks opened; just
one more remains.

Drop down off the bridge, and
near the place where you first
saw Noxus you will see an
opening in the wall. Walk over
to the opening, and you will
notice that the path is blocked
by a force field and an Orange
Blast Shield. [161] You are not
getting through. However, if you
walk up to the force field and
turn to the right, you will find
the final proxy lock on the
wall. Scan it, and a Shield Key
will appear. But where is it?

Remember the place in the
corridor where you turned right
to go onto the damaged bridge?
If you had kept on going, you
would have reached a dead end.
It is in this dead end that the
Shield Key is located, so trek
through the corridor until you
reach it.

It will unseal the sealed door
near the center of the first
part of the corridor, just
across from the elevator leading
up to the damaged bridge. Run
over to the door and go through
it. Run to the door and go
through it. Inside the room that
it leads to is an Artifact. Grab
the Artifact, which will go to
your inventory and unlock the
door at the end of the first
part of the corridor.

Before you leave the room with
the Artifact, though, look at
the poles sticking horizontally
across a doorway. They are on
the side of the room opposite
the door you came in. While you
cannot walk through the poles,
they are high enough where you
could roll under them. Become a
Morph Ball, and roll under the
poles. You will roll onto an
elevator platform that has an
Energy Tank high above it. If it
does not go up automatically,
use a power bomb to activate the
elevator. When the platform is
high up, use a power bomb to
blast you the short distance up
to the Energy Tank. (e3) Once
you have that, then you may
leave the room and return to the
corridor.

When you go out the door into
the corridor, take a right. Go
straight all the way to the end
of that part of the corridor,
and you will find the door that
has been unlocked. Travel
through it and the door after
it.

The place you enter has three
hallways that you can travel
through. One is blocked by a
Purple Force Field, leaving you
with only two ways to go:
straight or to the right. For
now, go straight. Walk onto the
white section of ground, which
is actually not solid ground at
all. You will fall through to a
lower level. The room you will
fall into is completely
enclosed, leaving you with no
place to go.

Take a look on the ground by the
place where you fell. There is a
jump pad, put it is not emitting
white circles like normal jump
pads. You can actually scan this
pad, so do that now. [162]
Unfortunately for you, the pad
is not working right now,
preventing you from using it to
leave. Across the room, you will
find a large metal door on the
wall. It has an orange circle in
the center of it, and you should
scan it. [163]

It, like the jump pad, is not
working. With your scan visor
on, take a look around the room.
You will see many indentations
in the wall with Energy Routers,
but each of them is guarded by a
force field. All that is, expect
for one. Find it, and promptly
scan it. It is an Energy Router,
and it will send out a burst of
electricity that will open all
of the five other force fields,
revealing the Energy Routers
that they contain.

Frequent explosions will occur
over the other five Energy
Routers, letting you know which
ones you have not scanned. Go
around and scan them all; the
explosions over a given router
will stop once it has been
scanned. Once all have been
scanned, energy will start
flowing towards the Vault Door.
However, the outburst of energy
will upset some wasps, which
have their nest on the
electrical line.

Since they are a new type of
wasp, use your scan visor to add
them to your logbook. [164]
Then, avoid the singers they
shoot at you and destroy all
five of their nests.
Surprisingly, the nests are
actually smaller than the wasps
that come out of them. When the
nests have been destroyed, you
may take out any rage you have
garnered on the wasps in the
room.

Upon their destruction, a
display on a ledge at the top of
the room will turn on, and the
jump pad will be enabled. Use
the jump pad to go back up
through the white "floor" and
into the place where there are
three hallways and a door.

This time, head to the left. Put
your scan visor on as you
traverse the narrow hallway. At
the end of it, to the left, you
will find a blue hologram. (You
may recall that this type of
hologram only appears when you
have your scan visor on.) Add it
to the logbook [165] After
scanning the hologram, turn and
you will find see a white light
that somewhat resembles a wall.
Remember, this is just an
illusion; you can actually walk
through it. Go past the white
light, and you will come to the
display that lit up when you
destroyed all of the wasps. Scan
it, and the Vault Door will
open.

Drop down into the room where
the Vault Door is, and go up
through the entryway that the
door had previously been
blocking. The ice filled room
that you will enter has a great
deal of things to scan, starting
with a blue wasp. It is
different that all of the
previous wasps, and thus
deserves a place in the logbook.
[166] Since the wasp will make
the rest of your scanning
difficult, move towards it and
fire at its nest, located on the
right wall. When the nest is
dead, then you may slaughter the
wasp.

Having defeated the only enemy
in the room, pull out your scan
visor and look below the ice
bridge that is suspended near
the top of the room. There are
ice shards beneath it that you
can scan. [167] There are other
objects in the room to scan up
high, but they are easier to
access later on so we will save
them for later. For now, go to
the end of the room and take a
right to head into the corridor
connected to the ice room.

When you enter the corridor, a
cutscene will reveal that the
corridor is actually a trench in
a large room. In that room is
the Judicator. Walk along the
trench, and it will soon slant
upwards. Follow it up onto the
main floor of the room.

On the main floor, there are two
areas to walk separated by the
trench. A fallen pillar spans
the gap between them, and it has
a Zoomer on it. Blast the Zoomer
to clear a way, and then walk
across the pillar to the other
side of the room.

Here is where it gets tricky. On
the other side of the room, you
will see a platform controller
emitting a white light that goes
back and forth. Scan that
platform controller, and it will
adjust multiple platforms in the
level, permitting you to reach
the Judicator.

To get to the Judicator,
however, you need to be the
Morph Ball. Change to your
alternate form, the Morph Ball,
and roll along the wall to the
left of the platform controller.
You will find a place in the
wall that you can roll into. Go
straight into it, and take note
of the small platform that is up
and to the left of where you
roll in. It is vital that you
get onto that platform, so lay a
Morph Bomb and wait for it to
explode. When it does, maneuver
onto the platform.

Now to the left of the
stationary platform is a
platform that moves up and down.
However, they are not connected.
There is a gap in between them.
Roll to the edge of the platform
you are on, and wait for the
other platform to almost go even
with the platform you are on.
When it does, lay a power bomb.
You need to have enough time so
when the power bomb decimates,
you can move over to the left
and land on the platform.

On the moving platform, wait
until it reaches the top of the
area. Then, roll to the right
until you come to a wall. Use a
power bomb to go over the wall,
and continue on as the path
curves around the outside wall.
Follow it, but be careful. It
will only last a short distance.
At the end of the path is a
small platform that you can roll
onto. Stop on it, and when you
do it will begin to move to the
right. It will appear to stop,
but do not be fooled. It is just
making a right turn. Wait until
it stops again after making the
turn and connects to another set
of platforms.

These platforms are skinny and
are not contained by walls, so
you must be extremely careful as
you go across them towards to
outer wall. Once you are all the
way to the outer wall, roll to
the left along the edge. You
will quickly come to a straight
drop only big enough for the
Morph Ball, and you should drop
down it. Move forward a little
bit after the drop, and you will
be able to return to biped form.
Put on your scan visor, and look
around on the area you are on
for the Judicator. Scan it [168]
and then grab it.

At this point, you will be able
to free yourself from the room.
Before you drop down from the
ledge where you got the
Judicator, though, put on your
scan visor and look at the large
orange circle on the near wall.
It looks like it is part of the
design, and it is something you
can scan. [169] After it is in
your logbook, jump down and look
at that Purple Force Field that
used to prevent you from going
anywhere. With a single shot
from the Judicator directly
squarely at the node that moves
around the face of the force
field, it will dissipate. Switch
to the Judicator by tapping on
the icon on the top right corner
of the touch screen and sliding
your finger or the stylus over
to the Judicator symbol. When it
is highlighted, let go.

--------------------
Judicator Collected!
--------------------

Once you have blasted through
the force field, walk into the
area it was blocking. You will
remember that this is the ice
room where the ice bridge was.
You still have a few scans to
do. First, use your scan visor
to examine the ice bridge
itself. [170] Off to the left on
the wall near the end of the ice
bridge, you will see more ice
crystals. They are different
from the Ammolite Shards you
scanned earlier, so add them to
your logbook. [171] Finally,
blow the Zoomers that move near
the ice bridge to smithereens,
and walk across to the other
side.

However, do not leave the ice
bridge. Stand at the end of it,
and turn to the right. You will
see a Purple Force Field against
the wall. Zap it into oblivion
with your Judicator. After it is
gone, jump from the ice bridge
into the room that the Purple
Force Field was protecting. It
will be a challenge since the
gap is so far, but you can do
it. If you walk off of an object
then you can jump in midair; you
may want to run off the ice
bridge and then jump shortly
after you start to fall.

Anyway, inside that area you
will find a UA Expansion to the
right. (UA2) You will only have
a limited amount of time to
enjoy your find, however,
because a turret will start
firing at you from the left of
where you came in. Use your
handy power beam to decimate it.
It will explode, and a Shield
Key will appear in the room
where it was. Run over and grab
the key, which will make the
force field on the ground
disappear. Before you fall
through the opening, put your
scan visor and look up. You will
find an object at the ceiling to
scan. [172] After that, drop
down into the opening, and take
the Artifact that rests there.
Once you have it, go through the
doorway that is in that area. It
will take you through a winding
hallway with dangerous plants.

The end of the hallway leads to
a room that contains a portal.
Behind the portal is a switch,
which you can activate by
scanning it. Once the portal is
activated, you can use it to
return to your ship. Near the
portal, an entryway leads to a
hallway filled with spiky
plants. Blast your way through
the vegetation.

In the hallway, you will find
another small, white light that
appears to block a path. As you
know, you can travel through
this light. This time, you need
to be the Morph Ball. Approach
the light very slowly; it leads
to a ledge that you can easily
fall off of. Roll all the way
across the ledge until you reach
the Missile Expansion, (m5) and
then fall off the ledge. In the
large room, you will find a
Purple Force Field imprisoning a
UA Expansion. (UA3) Use your
Judicator to deal with the force
field, and then collect the
expansion.

From there, use the jump pad to
get out of the room. In the
corridor that the jump pad
propels you into, you will see
the door leading out of this
area and a corridor to the left
and to the right. This is the
place with three corridors that
you noticed earlier in the
level. The corridor to the right
has a Purple Force Field
guarding it; it leads to the
plant-infested hallway you were
traveling on. Disable the force
field with the Judicator.
Instead of traveling into the
hallway, however, go through the
door and the door beyond it.

Just outside the second door
after the hallway in between the
two doors, turn to the left.
Then, jump up onto the higher
section of the corridor that is
there. It leads to the open
ledge where you first shot the
Voldrums. It may take a couple
jumps since you have to have
good timing. Once you are on the
higher corridor, run straight
across it until you see the
purple door. The Judicator will
break through the door's
security, allowing you to enter
a room with two Petrasyls and an
Alimbic Emblem. Also in the room
is a path for the Morph Ball to
go through.

------------------------
Morph Ball Ice Labyrinth
------------------------

As the Morph Ball, roll along
the path until you reach the ice
covered labyrinth. It will take
precision to maneuver through
it, so listen closely. Start off
by heading to the right, and
follow that path all the way
past the sealed door.

A little ways after the sealed
door (which has a spinning red
thing on it), you will be
allowed to go up or down. Head
down for now; it will lead you
to an Energy Tank. Follow that
path (you will pass a few green
laser emitters that are turned
off) until you reach a place
where you are presented with
three directions to go: left,
up, or to the right in a small
passageway.

The area you will come to is
very choppy, and has many
potential paths for you to
travel (most of them are closely
connected though). Go up and to
the left, and you will see a
fallen pillar lying on its side.
Go up again past the fallen
pillar, and take a right until
you reach the wall. Then, go up
until you see green lasers that
turn on and off. Wait for them
to turn off, and roll through
them. There are three of them,
and after them all is an Energy
Tank. (e4)

Now, it is time to head back.
Roll down through the green
lasers and down past the fallen
pillar. Immediately after the
fallen pillar, go straight to
the right and then head down and
right some more. You will return
to the place where you had three
directions to go. Head straight
down, all the way through the
green laser emitters that are
turned off.

When you get to the spot where
you originally headed down, you
will be able to go left or up.
Left is the sealed door, so roll
up. Green lasers will block the
only path you have as you head
up, so wait until they turn off
for a short period of time
before rolling through them.
After a while, you will come to
a break in the ice.

High above the break in the ice
is a Shield Key. You will need
to use power bombs to acquire
it. Start by stopping under the
break in the ice and laying a
power bomb. When it explodes,
you should fly straight through
the hole. Do not try to move. If
you successfully went through
the hole, you are in position to
collect the Shield Key.

Lay another power bomb, and just
before it explodes lay another
one. When the first power bomb
explodes and bounces you into
the air, lay another power bomb
at the height of your bounce. If
you laid it correctly, you will
fall back down on the second
power bomb you laid, which will
then shoot you back into the
air. While you are in the air,
the third power bomb will
explode, and it will shoot you
even higher into the air, all
the way into the Shield Key.

With the Shield Key in your
control, the sealed door will
unseal. Roll back down past the
green lasers, and go to the left
when you have the choice to
continue downward or go to the
left. Continue on that path all
the way to the door, which you
will have to open with a power
bomb.

As it opens, roll inside of it.
You will find the third Artifact
at the end of the passageway.
Take the Artifact, and then go
back to the ice labyrinth. Now
that you have the third
Artifact, the Stronghold Portal
will be activated. In the ice
labyrinth, head downward as soon
as you go past the door. Follow
the path and continue to head
down until you escape.

Go through the doors that led
into the labyrinth, and continue
straight down the corridor. You
will reach the door that leads
to the three corridors. Through
the door, travel all the way
across the left corridor until
you reach the portal. If you
wish, use it to make a quick
stop at your ship to resupply
before the final boss.

Next, look at the narrow hallway
that you went through after
obtaining the second Artifact.
To the left of it is an ice
shard and a slanted part of the
wall. Above the hallway is it is
the Stronghold Portal. Stand to
the right of the narrow hallway,
and jump over the ice shard.
From there, continuously try to
move forward (you may need to
move left or right a small
amount) until you are on flat
ground next to the Stronghold
Portal.

Before you enter it, put on your
scan visor and three blue
holograms will appear next to
the Stronghold Portal. [173]
[174] [175] Be sure to scan all
three of them, and then teleport
to the boss area. Since you have
already been through numerous
boss areas, simply run across
the walkway and head into the
boss's chamber.

--------------
Boss: Slench 2
--------------

Before you start slaughtering
the latest version of Slench, do
a quick scan of it. [176] He
should be the only item in the
boss room that you need to scan,
as you should have scanned
Biodefense Chamber B and the
Energy Blaster during your last
Slench fight.

Okay, onto the battle. Slench is
almost exactly the same as he
was last time, only it is much
more powerful. To begin, you can
only hurt its three tentacles by
using the Judicator; all other
weapons will not work. Slench
also will shoot out deadly green
torpedoes that track you. To
avoid getting hit by the green
torpedoes, you will need to
destroy them with your arm
cannon.

To harm Slench, it needs to be
away from the wall. Shoot each
tentacle three times with the
Judicator, and then Slench will
disconnect from the wall. You
will want to avoid the shots
from the Energy Blasters as you
do this, and you will also want
to eliminate the tentacles
quickly so Slench does not
release many green torpedoes for
you to worry about.

Once Slench disconnects and
starts flying around, scan it
since it will be in its b form.
[177] Then, use the Judicator on
Slench. Charge it up if there is
a short period of time where you
cannot successfully hit it so
that you can cause greater
damage when you are in a
position to score a hit. Cause
as much damage as you can as
quickly as you can, as Slench
will only fly around a short
time before returning to the
wall. While it flies, it will
also shoot fire at you, which
will cause substantial damage
should it hit you. Constantly
move to avoid the fire.

When it does return, you will
have to use the same technique
to get it off and cause damage.
The fight is somewhat
repetitious, though you will
constantly have to be alert so
that you can avoid the Energy
Blasters' shots. After forcing
all three tentacles into the
wall, you will also want to blow
up any green torpedoes that
Slench has released so you can
be in excellent condition when
you start shooting Slench
itself.

After it is a third of the way
dead, Slench will move into
phase two. It is similar to
phase one, but Slench shoots
more torpedoes and he also moves
around faster in the air. This
will make it more challenging,
but if you focus you can still
cause damage.

Phase three is where the most
trouble occurs, and it starts
when Slench has one third of its
health left. Slench will launch
a ton of torpedoes, it will move
really fast in the air, and the
tentacles will require four hits
each instead of three. You will
need to be in tiptop shape to
take him down, and in this part
of the fight it is vital that
you avoid getting hit and that
you shoot down the torpedoes he
releases when they start to come
at you.

Tiptop shape is vital, but you
most likely will not be in
tiptop shape when you reach this
part of the battle. There is a
solution, however. Before Slench
is two thirds dead, go to the
other end of the room and face
Slench with your power beam
armed. At such a far distance,
it will be easy to dodge
whatever the Energy Blasters
throw at you, and you will able
to spot and destroy virtually
all of the green torpedoes
before they hit you.

Since many of the green
torpedoes will leave health or
ammo when you destroy them, this
will provide an excellent
opportunity to stock up on
health. It will also be a good
way to replenish the Judicator's
ammo supply, which will probably
be running really low. By
powering up your power beam, all
of the powerups that are around
you will be drawn straight into
you, so you do not have to
collect them. Because of this,
it is easy to gain the health
and ammo (though you might have
to move forward a little to suck
in the powerups really close to
Slench) Once you are confident
that you have enough to finish
the battle, go in there and use
the Judicator to send Slench
into phase three.

It is also possible to do this
in phase three, but the massive
amounts of green torpedoes that
he will launch at you make it
unpractical. You will want to go
through phase three without
having to restock on either
health or ammo. After you have
depleted his last third of
health, Slench will be defeated.
Keep in mind that it is really
difficult to hit Slench in phase
three because he moves so
insanely fast; predict where he
is going to be and continue to
practice. It may take multiple
tries to be this boss; just be
ready and willing to accept that
(and don't forget to rescan it
if you die, since you lose all
scans that you obtained after
the checkpoint you restart at,
which is right before Slench).

After he is dead, collect the
Octolith and that health that
will appear in the room. You
will now have four Octoliths
(provided that you went to
Vesper Defense Post before
Arcterra). With half of the
Octoliths in your control, leave
the boss room and prepare to
evacuate Arcterra for the first
time.

"...Our people are gone, yet we
remain..."

--------------------
Escape from Arcterra
Time: 7 Minutes
--------------------

First off, you need to leave the
inaccessible boss area and
travel through the Stronghold
Portal, which will take you to
the normal part of Arcterra.
When you are teleported to the
regular part of Arcterra, run
straight as soon as you come out
of the portal. You will drop
down to the place where the
small portal is, though
unfortunately it is not working.

Keep running straight, and you
will find yourself running into
the hallway consumed by vicious
plants. Speed is important, but
you should still spend a little
time clearing a path to travel
through. Besides, you may find a
couple powerups among the plants
you destroy.

At the end of the plant filled
corridor, you will find a door
against the right wall. Head
through it, and then go through
the door that is after is as
well. After the second door, run
straight until you reach the
force field blocking off a part
of the corridor that you enter.

From there, turn to the left and
head into the open. Across from
the corridor, you will find a
ramp nestled against the wall
and leading to the right. Run
over to the ramp at the end of
that area, and go up it.
Continue forward, and then a
cutscene will reveal Trace's
entrance. He will appear on the
ledge where you shot the
Voldrums way back near the
beginning of the level.

You have to stop him, before you
can continue, so go down to the
snow covered area just below
where Trace is and pull out your
missiles. But before you begin
firing, use that nifty scan
visor of yours to add him to the
logbook. [178] Stay as close as
you can to the ledge where Trace
is shooting from while still
managing to be able to shoot
him, and then release as many
missiles as you can towards him.
The closer you are to the ledge,
the harder it is for him to
snipe you. Strafe left and right
and focus your missiles on him.
If he disappears (which he will
occasionally do), just keep
firing towards the ledge and
hope that you hit him. He will
reappear after you successfully
launch a missile into his body.

After you have dealt him a good
deal of damage, he will jump
down to the area you are at.
Since the Imperialist sniper is
not as useful here, most of time
he will remain in his alternate
form. Fire missiles at him as
often as you can, and try to
stay out of his way. When he
switches to his alternate form,
quickly use your scan visor to
add his alt form to your
logbook, and then resume your
battle. [179]

If he ever disappears, switch to
the power beam and pepper the
area with fire. Run around the
area as well. Once you hit him
or come close to him, Trace will
come out of hiding and you can
continue. It will be tough; just
keep it up. Also, the radar will
also alert you to his location
even when he is invisible, so
you can find him using it as
well. Should you find his
location, consider using a
charged missile as the attack to
bring him out of hiding; it will
cause him plenty of damage.

With quick lunges, he can be
very deadly. However, with
several good hits from your
missile launcher you can easily
destroy Trace. Upon his death,
the force field blocking the
door in the corridor at the
opposite corner of the area will
vanish and you will be able to
proceed through it. If you ever
start running low on health
during the fight, destroy the
plants in the area; many of them
contain energy.

Once you are ready to keep
moving, head through the door
that you can now access thanks
to Trace's death. Continue until
you reach the massively tall
area where your ship is
stationed. You now have to climb
all the way to the top of your
ship. As you start to jump up
the platforms to head towards
your ship, three Guardians will
place a horizontal force field
across the room to keep you from
getting any higher.

At that point, you will have to
jump down and fight the
Guardians. Missiles work best,
of course, so use your remaining
missiles against the guardians.
Once they are dead, the force
field will vanish and you will
be able to jump up the many
platforms that lead to you ship.

After a while, the platforms
will lead to a flat section of
ground against the edge of the
area. There will be an excess of
Geemers this time around, so
move cautiously to avoid getting
punctured. Walk along this
ledge, jumping across the
occasionally gaps that are in
it. It will lead you higher and
higher. Then, it will head into
the cliff wall. Remember that
this is the route you used to
head down to the ground of this
area at the beginning of the
level; it is okay to head into
the cliff wall (though it might
seem like you are going away
from your destination.)

The path through the cliff will
slant upwards, and soon it will
head back outside. When it does,
it will face straight towards
the walkway that leads to the
platform your ship is on. Run
across the walkway and jump onto
your ship, and then you will be
safe.

[151] Arcterra
[152] Alimbic Prophecy 04
[153] Geemer
[154] Alimbic Crest
[155] Shriekbat
[156] Alimbic Emblem
[157] Noxus
[158] Vhoscythe
[159] Purple Blast Shield
[160] Damaged Bridge
[161] Orange Blast Shield
[162] Disabled Jump Pad
[163] Vault Door
[164] Barbed War Wasp
[165] Alimbic Pride 01
[166] Blue Barbed War Wasp
[167] Ammolite Shards
[168] Judicator
[169] Alimbic Insignia
[170] Ice Bridge
[171] Witherite Shards
[172] Heating System
[173] History 09
[174] History 10
[175] History 11
[176] Slench 2a
[177] Slench 2b
[178] Trace
[179] Triskelion

==============================
F. Celestial Archives: Visit 2
==============================

After you have secured four of
the eight Octoliths, it will be
time to do some backtracking.
With your sleek new weapons, you
will not be able to access some
areas in Celestial Archives that
were previously restricted.
Actually, you will open up a
plethora of places to explore.
Set your destination as the
Celestial Archives, and take
off.

First, walk off the platform
that your ship lands on and look
underneath it. You will see a
Green Force Field. Yep, it's
time to see how useful new
weapons can be. Since only the
Morph Ball can fit under the
platform, you will have to have
fairly good aim so that you can
stand just beyond the platform
and shoot the moving node
sustaining the Green Force
Field.

Once the force field is gone,
switch to the Morph Ball and
roll under the platform. Fall
down through the hole you
created by eliminating the force
field. In the room you land in,
there will be a single jump pad
in the center. Off to one of the
sides is a UA Expansion. (UA4)
Grab the expansion, switch to
biped form, and get on the jump
pad. It will shoot you higher in
the air if you are a biped than
if you are a Morph Ball. Go
forward just enough so that you
do not fall back in the hole,
and then switch to the Morph
Ball so that you can get out
from under the platform.

That was only a small room, but
it does provide you with a taste
of what can be accomplished.
Now, go into the portal that is
to the left of the door. Through
the portal, you will enter a
tall room. While normally you
would go up, you are going to
need to do a little bit of
backtracking.

Turn around and head through the
door. You will soon arrive at a
curved hallway, and you should
head right in it. Once you find
a door, head through it. Past
the door, make a sharp right and
walk along the wall to the next
door. The room you entered is
massive, but you need to stay
near the wall to get to the next
door.

Through that door, take a left
and start heading down the next
curved hallway. You will come to
a door on the right wall, which
will lead you to a tall room.
Drop down to the bottom of the
room, and go through the door.
It will soon take you to another
curved hallway, and the music
will start to pick up beat when
you enter the hallway.

Walk right along the hall until
you see a green door. Pull out
the Battlehammer and shoot the
door. It will turn white,
allowing you to open it with the
power beam. In the large room
that you enter, there will be
three platforms in the middle of
the room. Two Guardians are also
in the room.

Avoid the Guardians' attacks as
much as possible, and return
fire with your missiles. Do not
stop until both the Guardians
are dead. When they are gone,
jump on top of the middle
platform, where you will find a
UA Expansion. (UA5) Then, look
to both sides of the room, and
you will see what look like two
skinny walls. Each of these
walls is actually a hub that you
can scan, and since they are
different you will need to scan
them both. [201] [202]

To the side of one of the lower
platforms, you will see a tiny
platform suspended in the air.
Two small, glowing blue pillars
are on it. Jump to the minute
platform, and then jump towards
the Morph Ball hole in between
two more blue pillars. Change to
the Morph Ball, and roll a short
ways into the hole so that you
can stand up again. In biped
form, scan the yellow circle in
the room. [203] Then take it; it
is the Volt Driver.

----------------------
Volt Driver Collected!
----------------------

Your next goal is to make it
back to the portal. Assuming you
did not go around and shoot
every door in the large room
with the Battlehammer, the only
door that will be white is the
one you came through. Go to the
right after heading through the
door, and make your way back up
to the portal. The route to the
room with the portal is fairly
straight forward, particularly
since you have already traveled
it multiple times, so you should
have little trouble making it
there. And if you end up going
the wrong way, you can always
instantly reach the portal from
room where your ship is located.

In the room with the portal,
start jumping up the platforms
until you come to the Yellow
Force Field. It just so happens
that Yellow Force Fields are the
Volt Driver's specialty, so
blast the moving node to cause
the force field to diminish. You
have almost reached the next big
section in the Celestial
Archives.

Run through the hall that was
protected by the force field,
and at the end of the hall you
will come to an elevator
platform. Step on the platform,
and it will rise in the air. At
the top, off to the side, you
will be able to find a jump pad.
Jump onto the jump pad, and it
will launch your over to another
hallway on the other side of the
room.

At the end of the hallway is a
yellowish door with a shiny blue
thing above it; scan both the
door [204] and the shiny blue
thing. [205] Use the Volt Driver
to get through the door, and on
the other side you will find a
small room with a portal. Unlike
the portals you are used to
dealing with, this one does not
simply take you back to the
beginning of the level. It takes
you to a whole new area, so hop
in and teleport to the next
section of the Celestial
Archives.

When you emerge from the next
portal, you will find yourself
standing on a transparent,
orange walkway. Across from you
is a white light that you can go
through. Get your missiles
ready, and then charge through
the white light into the next
room, which is humongous.

Inside the next room, a major
battle will ensue. Several blue
triangles will release enemies
to attack you, and two Guardians
will appear to enhance the fun.
First, fun around and focus all
of your attention on the
Guardians. They are lethal, so
you want to eliminate them first
using your missiles. After their
death, pull out your power beam
and eliminate the two blue
triangles that are on the ground
at front left and front right of
the colossal structure in the
middle of the room. Deal with
the Voldrums that the triangles
released after obliterating the
triangles.

Next, walk up the structure that
takes up most of the room, and
you will notice Psycho Bits
shooting at your from above a
long walkway that extends from
the large, slanted structure.
Run up the structure and proceed
onto the walkway, where you can
eliminate that Psycho Bits' blue
triangle as well as the Psycho
Bits themselves.

After they are gone you will
have some peace, though more
enemies still lurk in the room.
For now though, put your scan
visor on. Look at the orange
light that connects the few
parts of the walkway, and scan
it. [206] Then, turn around and
head to the back of the room.

You will see multiple yellow
Psycho Bits; each of which has
its own blue spawning triangle
near it. Since these are a more
recent version of the Psycho
Bit, scan them into your
logbook. [207] Start by
destroying all three of the blue
triangles, and as you do notice
how the ground near each
triangle is actually a force
field. Then, go and decimate all
of the remaining Psycho Bits
with whatever weapon you decide
is best. As each Psycho Bits
dies (and since the triangle is
gone it cannot respawn them), a
portion of the force field that
covered part of the ground will
disappear, revealing a deep
trench.

Kill all three Psycho Bits to
fully open the trench, and then
jump into it. You will find
three switches in the trench.
Shoot each one of them, and each
one will open up another force
field at the front of the large
structure.

Then, run around to the front of
the structure and hurry over to
where the force fields
disappeared. You will find one
switch in each small place.
Shoot all three of the switches,
and then the force field near
the top of the structure in the
back will vanish.

Run up the side of the
structure, all the way to the
back, and enter the room that is
now open due to the force
field's absence. The only item
in the room worth noting is a
lone display at the front of the
room. Scan it, and it will open
up a new portal.

Before you head off to the next
world, there are a few things
that you need to do. Run across
the walkway that extends from
the large structure, heading all
the way through the white light
into the next room. There, you
will find the next portal. Pull
out your scan visor, and scan
the white panel behind the
portal. [208]

The portal you came through to
enter this area is one walkway
below you, so walk of the side
of the walkway you are on, fall
a short distance, and then jump
in midair (yes, you can jump in
midair once if you fall from a
platform) to land on the lower
walkway. Then, scan the white
panel that is behind that portal
as well. [209]

Finally, drop off that platform
to the lowest part of this room.
On one side of the place where
you fall to, there will be a
blue triangle that releases
Voldrums. There will also be a
jump pad near the middle of the
room, which you can later use to
bounce up to the highest
walkway.

For now, destroy the blue
triangle and the Voldrums. Then,
go over to the where the blue
triangle was and you will find a
UA Expansion. (UA6) From there,
walk towards the jump pad.
Before you reach it, turn to the
left and scan the white panel
there. [210] (There is a also a
white panel to the right of the
jump pad, but you cannot scan
it.) With that done, use the
jump pad to jump to the highest
walkway in the room, and go
through the portal located
there.

It will take you to the outer
edge of the station. A large
ledge will provide you plenty of
walking space, though if you
fall off into space then you
will die. A Guardian is also in
this area, so pull out your
missiles and gear up for a
battle. After it is dead, go to
the middle of the area and you
will find a Shield Key. It will
open the Artifact Shield that is
on a platform in the middle of
space.

A platform will move back and
forth from the middle of the
main station platform to the
small platform in space. Step on
it when it connects to the main
station, and then ride it over
to the small platform. Jump off
and retrieve the Artifact there.
Before you make your return
journey, put on your scan visor
and a hologram will appear on
the small platform. Once it has
been scanned, [211] then you may
proceed back to the security of
the main station.

On the left and right side of
the massive main docking bay
platform, you will find two
holograms (remember, they are
only visible when you have the
scan visor on). Add them to your
logbook, [212] [213] and then
jump above the many docking bays
until you reach the walkway that
extends out into space.

Walk along it with your scan
visor on, being careful not to
fall off. At the end of the
walkway, you will find a
hologram to scan. [214] Standing
at the end of the walkway, you
should notice that four moving
platforms will connect to the
walkway for a short period of
time and then move out towards
space to connect with a small
platform. Facing out towards
space and the platform where you
acquired the Artifact, they are
front left, left, right, and
front right.

Start by going on the front left
platform. It takes you to a
small platform with a UA
Expansion. (UA7) Take the
expansion, and then use your
scan visor to find a hologram
also on the platform, which you
should scan. [215] Once you have
the UA Expansion and you have
scanned the hologram, return to
the walkway via the moving
platform.

Again, face straight towards
where you took the Artifact and
then hop on the platform that
will be directly to your left.
It will lead to a platform with
a portal, and you should go
through the portal. After you
teleport, you will be in a
corridor that is next to a room.
Run a short distance into the
corridor, and off to the left
you will notice a Blue Force
Field keeping you from entering
the room. Scan the force field
since this is the first time you
encountered one of this color,
[216] and then proceed further
down the hallway. You will find
yet another portal there, which
you should enter.

It will take you into the room
that was next to the corridor
you were in. Two Guardians are
there, each armed with missiles.
Use missiles yourself to take
them down. When one dies, a
cutscene will reveal a
dissipating force field in the
area above the room you are in,
and it will also show a Shield
Key appearing.

Finish off the second Guardian,
and run to the corner of the
room opposite the portal that
you entered from. There you will
find another portal, and a small
display stand will be next to
the portal. Scan the display,
[217] and then enter the portal.

It will take you back out to the
walkway. Walk straight to the
end of the walkway, and then
board the platform directly to
your right (not the front right
platform). Ride it all the way
over to the lone platform it
connects to, and go in the
portal that is located there.

You will teleport to a room with
a Crash Pillar in it. Recall
from the duel at the Vesper
Defense Post that you need to
shoot the Crash Pillar when it
is above you. Pull out your
missiles, aim upward, shoot it
when it jumps above you, and
move out of the way as it comes
crashing down. Three missiles
will take down the Crash Pillar,
but try to avoid taking much
damage when you destroy it.

All at once, two blue triangles
will appear on the wall after
the Crash Pillar is no more.
They will release Psycho Bits,
so quickly defeat the triangles
and the nuisances they emit. As
you defeat both of the blue
triangles, two new blue
triangles will appear on the
ground and begin releasing
yellow Voldrums. They are a
different type of Voldrum than
the ones you have previously
scanned, so use your scan visor
to add them to the logbook.
[218]

To increase the fun factor,
three Guardians will also start
terrorizing the room. You will
need to take out both blue
triangles, the Electro Voldrums
that remain after the triangles
are gone, and all three of the
Guardians. Missiles are
definitely your friend. Run,
jump and strafe to avoid being
hit, and focus your firepower on
anything you can. It will be a
hectic battle, but you must
remain steadfast.

Once it is over (or during it,
if you see the need), break open
the few boxes scattered around
the room to recover health and
ammo. Then, go to the side of
the room near the Blue Force
Field. Two portals are there.
Begin by heading through the
portal that is closest to the
Blue Force Field.

It will take you to the top half
of the room where you defeated
the Guardians and made the
Shield Key appear. Run over to
the Artifact Shield, and take a
right to head down the walkway
that is next to it. If you fall
off, you will have to go through
the portal, return to the
walkway, and get back on the
moving platform to the right
again, which will be annoying.
Try to stay on.

As you walk across the walkway,
you will come to a spot where
you can take a right and head
towards the wall, or go straight
and head towards a portal. You
are going to want to go left,
but first turn to the right and
examine the green tank that is
there. Scan it into the logbook,
[219] and then turn around and
continue on along the walkway.

When you reach the wall (which
has an entryway leading to an
adjacent corridor type area),
walk through the doorway and
immediately turn left. If you
keep going straight, you will
fall through the large gap in
the ground. Continue left until
you reach the Shield Key. It
will deactivate the Artifact
Shield, and after you get it you
can run back to obtain the
Artifact.

After taking the Artifact, turn
back around and head back across
the walkway. Instead of turning
left to head to the wall,
however, head straight into the
portal this time. You will
appear on another walkway, much
like the one you were just on.
Walk straight a short distance,
and then turn right as soon as
you can. The walkway will go to
an entryway that leads to a
corridor like area just like the
one where you just took the
Shield Key. There is also a gap
in the floor of this corridor
area.

Instead of avoiding the gap,
however, fall down it. In the
place where you land, you will
see a blue sphere. It is the
Shock Coil. Scan it, [220] and
then move over to collect it.
(If you accidentally land on it
when you fall, that is okay
because it is automatically
added to your logbook once you
take it; I just like making your
scan things.)

---------------------
Shock Coil Collected!
---------------------

Use your newly obtained weapon
to blast through the Blue Force
Field, and you will be back in
the main part of the room where
you fought the three Guardians.
Walk straight as you go through
the doorway, and when you reach
the wall turn right and head
into the portal that is there.

You will begin on a ledge in a
room with Guardians on the
floor. It is not yet time to
defeat the Guardians, so travel
straight and grab the Missile
Expansion that is there. (m6)
Continue along the ledge, and
you will go next to a long,
green tank. It is different than
the other green tank you
scanned, and thus requires a
separate entry in the logbook.
[221]

Psycho Bits will start flying in
from the sky and start attacking
you on the ledge. Strafe left
and right on the ledge, and
destroy them all. It may seem
like they will never stop
coming, but after you shoot
enough of them down they will no
longer appear. Once the Psycho
Bits are gone, backtrack along
the ledge and go onto the
walkway that is on the other
side of the green incubation
tank (the Guardians will keep
shooting at you, so step lively)

You will see a Blue Force Field,
which you can decimate with the
Shock Coil. Walk through the
entryway that the force field
protected, and fall down through
the gap that is after the
entryway. The place where you
land has a portal leading to an
entirely new area of the
Celestial Archives. If you want
to have a bit of fun you can
disable to Blue Force Field next
to the portal and fight the
Guardians, though that is not
necessary.

After going through two doors
and a hallway in the next area,
you will come to a grand
corridor. Only problem is it has
been blasted into pieces. Much
of the ground and the walls has
been destroy, and in many places
the only path is a disconnected
series of suspended pieces of
the floor. It is all over the
nothingness of space, and you do
not want to fall through.

Walk into the corridor, put on
your scan visor, and scan the
large green panel on the right
wall. [222] Then, walk over to
that panel, and get onto the
slanted part of the ground that
is next to the green panel on
the right. Travel careful along
the ground besides the green
panel, staying as close to is as
you can. When you reach the end
of the large, green panel, you
will decently sized piece of
floor to the left. Jump over to
it, and then walk forward a
short distance.

A second version of the Psycho
Bits will then approach you and
attack. Move a little further up
on the piece of ground you are
on, and use the Shock Coil to
demolish the Psycho Bit. When
another one comes, use the same
technique to destroy it.

At the end of the piece of floor
you are on, you will see a
shattered green panel against
the right wall. Go up alongside
of it like you did with the last
green panel, and cautiously
advance. You will reach a dead
end at the end of the green
panel. From there, you will have
to jump a good distance to the
left to land on another sizeable
piece of flooring.

Carefully make your way to the
end of that piece of floor, and
in front of it you will see
another piece of floor lower
down that you can jump to. A
Psycho Bit that is even further
away might start shooting at
you, and if it does take it down
with missiles. If it does not
shoot at you, you will have to
deal with it after you jump down
to the lower platform that used
to be a part of the floor.

Before you make the jump, turn
to the right and you will see an
orange stripe going vertically
up the wall. It is an item to
scan. [223] With that done, jump
to the lower platform, and from
there jump to the large portion
of ground that is to the right
of it.

Again, walk onto the slanted
portion of ground next to the
green panel. When the panel
ends, you will have to jump to
the flooring on the left. The
gap to it is not that large, but
it is a long ways down. After
you make the jump you are almost
home free. Continue on through
the damaged corridor until you
reach the end of it. The
remaining path is fairly
obvious, though you will have to
do a little jumping from one
side of the corridor to the
other. Look for the shortest
jump possible, and you will do
fine. Go through the door at the
end of the scattered corridor.

You will have to then travel
through several small hallways.
In the one of the hallways, you
will encounter enemies. The
enemies you encounter are small
and they lunge at you, and since
you have never been able to scan
them before you should do that
before obliterating them to
pieces. [224] If they ever latch
onto you, change to the Morph
Ball and quickly lay a power
bomb, which will free your from
their grip. After all three
Quadtroids are dead, the door
and the end of the hallway will
become unsealed so that you can
pass through it.

The area you enter is will be
shaped like a tall cylinder. In
the center is nothingness, but
on most of the outside edge
there is a ledge you can safely
walk on. As you go out onto the
ledge Psycho Bits will attack
you. To defeat them, use the
Shock Coil. Since there are many
of them, just be patient and
keep zapping until all of them
are dead.

Continue along the ledge, and
you will find a switch next to a
deactivated portal. Scan the
switch and the portal will
activate. This particular portal
leads to the first room of the
Celestial Archives where your
ship is. It is the portal to the
right of the door leading out of
that room. If you want to save
or just resupply, use the
portal.

Next to the portal, just off the
ledge, a platform rises and
lowers in the air. When it comes
down even with the ledge, jump
onto it. Ride it until it stops
in the air, and then walk over
to the stationary platform it is
next to. Run straight across the
stationary platform onto the
platform after it, which should
also be down at this time. That
platform will take you to the
very top of the area.

Turn around, and you will see
another platform stationary in
the air. Once you walk on it,
you will notice a ledge with a
doorway just past it. Use your
masterful jumping skills to make
it to the ledge, and then head
through the doorway.

It will lead you to another tall
cylinder like area, only this
time you will start at the top.
To the left, a platform will
rise until it is even with the
ledge you are standing on. Jump
over to it, and turn partway to
the right as it heads down. You
will see two other platforms,
and the three platforms together
will form a triangle type
pattern.

Jump onto the stationary
platform that is closest to you
(even though it is a good
distance away). When you are on
it, look around until you can
see a wide opening in between
the green panels that line the
wall of the area. In that
opening, you will see an
Artifact Shield. It is close
enough for you to jump to,
though you will have to time
your jump right. Run towards the
Artifact Shield, and suddenly a
force field will confine you in
the room.

That may seem a bit odd,
especially since there is
nothing visible in the room.
However, if you put your scan
visor on four holograms will
appear around the Artifact
Shield. Scan all four of them.
[225] [226] [227] [228] With the
four holograms scanned, a Shield
Key will appear beside the
Artifact Shield. Take it to make
the shield go away, and then you
may retrieve the Artifact the
shield was incarcerating.

The force field that sealed you
inside the room will vanish,
allowing you to leave. Before
you move anywhere, however, put
you scan visor on and look
towards that ceiling. A strange
creature will be there. Although
you cannot scan it from the
ground, you will be able to scan
it if you simply jump straight
into the air. [229] Once you
have scanned this older brother
of the Lesser Ithrak, release a
missile towards it, which should
destroy it.

Next, run out of the room and
start heading towards the
cylinder area. Instead of merely
jumping into the abyss, though,
move to the left and jump down
to the ledge that is to the
left. Run around the ledge until
you reach the end of it. Another
ledge will lie a wide distance
away.

You cannot jump far enough to
reach the other ledge, so wait
until a platform comes down to
the level you are at. It will be
far away near the other ledge,
but it is near enough that you
can jump to it. After you reach
the platform, jump to the ledge
and then go through the pathway
that is connected to it.

At that end of the pathway, you
will come to the third and final
cylinder room. Start by going
left along the outer ledge. You
will notice a platform moving up
and down, but it is not time to
mess with it yet. Stay along the
outer ledge as much as you can,
and jump across the gaps that
you come to. Soon you will have
to jump to a small, slanted
platform, and after that you
will be able to jump to a ledge
with an Energy Tank on it. (e5)
This is the first time you will
be in biped form when you reach
an Energy Tank, so celebrate by
scanning it [230] even though
the Energy Tank was added to
your logbook after collected
your first one.

Now, jump back to the ledge
where you saw the platform
moving up and down. Board it and
ride it up until it stops, at
which time you will have to jump
to another nearby platform to
continue your ascent. Once you
reach the top by riding on that
platform, walk onto the
stationary platform that is
adjacent to it, and from there
jump to the area that leads to a
door. Go through the door, and
you will find the Stronghold
Portal. Use it to head to the
boss area, and then quickly run
to the boss chambers; your old
friend Slench is waiting for you
yet again.

--------------
Boss: Slench 3
--------------

Does the insanity ever end?
Slench is back in a new form,
and you need to scan this third
reincarnation into your logbook.
[231] With Slench's information
tucked safely into your logbook,
the real brawl will begin.

Again you will have to remove
the three tentacles to get
Slench into the air, and again
you will have to shoot its eye
while it is in the air to deal
it damage. However, this time it
is much harder. To begin, Energy
Blasters shoot electromagnetic
pulses that will damage you and
distort your visor. Slench also
shoots plenty of green
torpedoes, which you will have
to decimate to avoid. Finally,
the tentacles can only be harmed
by the Battlehammer, so you will
need to keep it handy as your
prepare for your fight.

Dodge the electromagnetic pulses
as you blast away at the
tentacles with the Battlehammer.
Four hits is usually
sufficiently to make them squeal
and disappear. Because they will
reemerge after a short period of
time, you need to take out all
three of them as quickly as you
can.

Once Slench detaches, the fight
does not get easier, but you
should still remember to scan
his detached form before
continuing. [232] Slench moves
very fast this time, and you
will be hard pressed to score a
hit. The Judicator or the Volt
Driver is my recommended weapon
for attacking it, but you can
use whatever you want. Missiles
are extremely effective, though
it is difficult to hit Slench
with them. Since Slench is
strong and hard to strike, you
have a long battle in front of
you no matter what weapon you
choose.

Besides shooting electromagnetic
pulses at you while it is in the
air, Slench will also close up a
few times while it is in the
air. Once it closes up, you know
that it is planning to ram you.
If you feel like being all
macho, you could just stand
there and take the hit like a
man, er, woman, but you probably
want to avoid taking damage. So,
as soon as Slench closes up,
switch to the Morph Ball and
quickly boost out of the way. It
is difficult to avoid the
ramming, though it is possible.

Slench will return back to the
wall after a short while, and
the whole process will repeat
itself. After a third of its
damage is gone, Slench will move
to phase to and will go even
faster, shoot even more, and
become even tougher. Just keep
up the fight. When it moves to
phase three, though, Slench will
fly around so quickly that it is
next to impossible to even shoot
it once. Because of that, it may
be a good idea change to the
Shock Coil for the third phase
of battle if you are having
serious trouble landing a hit.
It does very little damage, but
it is much easier to hit Slench
with it so it is better than
nothing.

During this drawn out fight,
chances are you are going to run
low on both ammo and health at
some point. The duel will last
many minutes, and you do not
want to die partway through and
have to start over again.

So, if you ever run low on
health or ammo, run over to the
Stronghold Door and stand next
to it. Then, face Slench. Next
to the Stronghold Door, the
electromagnetic pulses
discharged from the Energy
Blasters will not be able to
reach you. You will only have to
worry about the green torpedoes
emitted by Slench.

Pull out your trusty power beam,
and wait for the green torpedoes
to come somewhat near to you
before you blast them out of the
sky. It is not that hard to blow
them all to pieces, and many of
them have either health or ammo
powerups. When you want to
collect the powerups, charge
your power beam and it will draw
all of them into you. This is a
very simple yet tedious way to
get back into perfect condition,
so use it when you feel the
need.

Other than the length of the
battle, it is not that difficult
as long as you take the time to
run away and restock using the
method mentioned above.
Eventually, Slench 3a will lose
all its health to your weapons,
and it will explode. When it
does, collect both the Octolith
and the health that will appear
in the room and head out.

"...The cancer tried..."

--------------------------------
Escape from Celestial Archives:
Visit 2 Time: 8:30 Minutes
--------------------------------

Even though you have already
been to the Celestial Archives
once, you still have to escape
before time runs out or you will
die. It is not too difficult to
escape, but you will definitely
need you eight and a half
minutes.

After leaving the boss area and
going through the Stronghold
Portal, you will have to make
your way through the three tall
cylinder rooms. In the first
cylinder shaped room you come to
after the Stronghold Portal, you
need to head down. That is
exactly what you are going to
do. First, jump to the platform
that is in the middle of the
area. Then run straight off that
platform. You will fall, of
course, but do not worry. When
you start to near the bottom of
the area, jump in midair (you
can do a midair jump if you run
off the platform) to ensure your
safe landing on the ledge on the
opposite side of the room as the
pathway leading to the
Stronghold Portal.

Run through the passageway that
is on that ledge, and you will
come to the next cylinder area.
This time, up is the direction
you should travel. Go to the
right along the ledge, and you
will find a platform that moves
up and down. When it is down,
jump on it and ride it into the
air. After it stops, jump to the
stationary platform in the
middle of the room, and from
there jump to the platform that
can take you to the top of the
area. Ride it all the way up,
and then depart from it to jump
onto the ledge at the top of the
room that has a passageway
leading from it.

Past the second passageway, you
will come to the third and final
cylinder room. Drop down onto
the ledge in any way you prefer
-- either ride the platforms
down or fall off to the side and
do a midair jump to prevent from
taking fall damage (just make
sure that you land on a part of
the ledge that goes around the
outside of the area). On the
ledge, since the portal is not
working, you will have to walk
over to the door connected to it
and go through that.

The door will lead to numerous
hallways, all of which you can
run through. After three
hallways, you will come to the
broken corridor. Start by
running along the right side of
the corridor, and as it starts
to disappear jump over to the
left side and keep running.

Jog across the ground, avoiding
any gaps that you encounter.
Soon, you will see a Psycho Bit.
You have no time to fight it, so
keep running and you should be
able to dodge its shots. Past
the Psycho Bit, go to the right
and you will see a chain of
disconnected platforms leading
upward. Jump up all the
platforms until you are as high
as they take you, and from there
run across the decently flat
section of ground behind the
green panel.

At the end of that section of
ground, make a wide jump to the
left to land on damaged yet
sizeable chuck of flooring.
After that the way is fairly
easy to spot; just do not forget
to jump over the multiple gaps
that you encounter. When you
reach the end of the corridor,
go through the doors until you
reach a portal, which you should
enter.

Walk straight when you come out
of the portal, and go all the
way to the wall at the opposite
end of the room that you enter.
Then, turn to the left and walk
straight. You will see a portal
with a small display next to it.
That is the portal that you
should go through.

It leads to the walkway above
the docking bay platform. Turn
right and drop down onto the
platform itself. Go forward a
short distance, and you will
come to another portal; it is
the one the first took you to
this docking bay area.

Through that portal, you will be
on the highest walkway in a
fairly tall room. Drop down to
the walkway just below it, and
you will find yet another
portal. This will be the last
one for the level, so go through
it.

Run out of the room you teleport
to, and head down the long
hallway after the door. It will
lead to a tall room where the
first portal of the level is
located. It is not working of
course, but you should still run
off the edge of the hallway and
fall down to the bottom of the
tall room. Use the midair jump
to ensure a safe landing. Then,
go through the only door at the
bottom of the room.

Through that door and the
hallway after it, you will come
to a curved hallway. Run to the
right, and you will find a door
that leads into a large room. In
that room a Guardian lurks, so
get your missile launcher or the
Judicator smoking. Defeat the
Guardian, and run all the way to
the other door in the room (it
is the door that does not have
blue pillars on both sides of
it).

Take a left in the curved
hallway that you enter, and you
will soon find a door leading
out of that particular hallway.
It leads to another tall room,
where you can simply jump to the
floor and then proceed through
the door.

Go right after that door, and on
the left wall you will see the
door you shot with the
Battlehammer to access the room
where the Volt Driver was. Two
more Guardians now infest that
room, so enter the door and
smash them into oblivion. Once
they are dead, face the place
where you first obtained the
Volt Driver, and go to the left.
You will come to a door on the
opposite corner of the room as
the door you came from to enter
the room. The door there will be
defended by a Green Blast
Shield; equip your Battlehammer
to get through it.

Through the door, hang a right
and you will promptly come to
yet another door. Travel through
the door, and you will come to
one last tall room. Jump to the
bottom of it, and go through the
door you will find at the base
of the room. Run past the door
and then start journeying left
when you reach the next curved
hallway. At the end of that
portion of curved hallway, you
will locate a door that you can
enter.

The door leads to yet another
room inhabited by a Guardian.
Destroy the Guardian, and both
of the doors in the room will
unlock. You want to go through
the way on the opposite corner
as the one you came through to
enter the room. It is the one
closest to the skinny and short
wall.

Left should be you direction of
choice as you pass through that
door and head into another
curved hallway. This is the last
one of the level. The door at
the end of this hallway leads to
the area swarming with
Petrasyls. Quickly head through
that area, destroying any
Petrasyls that hinder your
progress. Run across all of the
hallways and through all the
doors that lead back to your
ship. The path is very linear
and you have traveled it before,
so you should have little
trouble finding your way.

In the room right before the
room where your ship is
stationed, one lone Guardian
might try to impede your
progress. By now your time
remaining should be running low,
and you must not waste any time
putting the Guardian out of
commission should it show up.
Its death will permit you to
advance through the final two
doors of the Celestial Archives;
after passing through them you
will be able to board your ship
and leave this place for good.

[201] Literary Hub
[202] Medical Hub
[203] Volt Driver
[204] Yellow Blast Shield
[205] Alimbic Prophecy 05
[206] Photon Stabilizer
[207] Psycho Bit v2.0
[208] Docking Bay L1
[209] Docking Bay L2
[210] Docking Bay L3
[211] Alimbic Order 04
[212] Alimbic Order 03
[213] Alimbic Order 02
[214] Final Wish
[215] Alimbic Order 01
[216] Blue Force Field
[217] Portal Control
[218] Electro Voldrum
[219] Incubation Tank A
[220] Shock Coil
[221] Incubation Tank B
[222] Shield Generator
[223] Gravity Stabilizer
[224] Quadtroid
[225] Gorea 06
[226] Gorea 07
[227] Gorea 08
[228] Gorea 09
[229] Greater Ithrak
[230] Energy Tank
[231] Slench 3a
[232] Slench 3b

==================
G. Alinos: Visit 2
==================

Once you have acquired five of
the eight Octoliths, it will be
time to return to the fiery pits
of Alinos. Your newly gained
weapons will come in handy here,
as you will have to advance
through dangerous areas and
fight any bounty hunters that
may randomly attack you.

As you begin, turn to the left
and head through the portal that
originally led to the room where
the Stronghold Portal is
located. This time, though, you
are not going to go to the
Stronghold Portal. Instead, go
out the door to the outside and
drop all the way down to the
ground. It is likely that a
bounty hunter or Guardian will
attack you in this area, but you
do not need to fight them yet.

Drop through the hole that is in
the ground, it will lead to the
underground complex of tunnels
that you used during your first
trip. As you land after the
fall, spin around and you will
see numerous corridors. Most are
guarded by Yellow Force Fields,
which you can destroy using the
Volt Driver, though they only
provide shortcuts to areas that
you have already visited in the
first visit so it is not
necessary to eliminate them.

Travel through the only corridor
that is not blocked by a Yellow
Force Field (or, if you already
went on a force field
destruction spree, the corridor
to the right of the path that
leads to a jump pad), and go
along it until it makes a right
turn. Keep running along the
turn, and at the next turn you
will find a Purple Force Field.
Using the Judicator, shoot out
the force field and take the
large energy that it held.

It is a great place to get a
health increase, but that is not
its real purpose. Switch to the
Morph Ball and head into the
tunnel that the Purple Force
Field was guarding, all the way
into the lava. You will enter a
side scrolling type of area
where you slowly sink in the
midst of a pool of lava.
Constantly you will take damage,
so as you fall maneuver yourself
so that you collect the energy
in the lava.

After you fall all the way to
the bottom (by the way, if you
ever get totally stuck on the
way down use a power bomb), you
will have to roll to the right
through a flat tunnel. Pick up
speed as you roll through it,
because the next part of your
journey will take you up. Roll
up the curved wall, and when the
side walls become flat then use
power bombs to send you high
into the lava. Just keep using
power bombs to go higher and
higher. If you come to a place
where a single platform will not
get you high enough to reach the
next ledge, then move over to
the wall. It should be curved
enough for you to at least stay
on if you press towards the wall
the entire time, and a well-
placed power bomb will allow you
to travel the remaining distance
up.

Near the end, you will encounter
a UA Expansion. (UA8) Obviously
you should collect it, and after
you have it then you should use
a power bomb to shoot up the
final shaft to free yourself
from the lava area.

It will deposit you in a
hallway, and you will be next to
a door. Run away from the door
and head down the hallway until
you reach the area with all the
Yellow Force Fields. Jump up
through the hole in the center
to leave the underground area
and to go outside.

Most likely, a bounty hunter or
a Guardian will show up at this
point, so be on your guard. You
never know when they will show
up; always be on your guard and
always be prepared to fight.
After the area is clear of any
potential troublemakers, run up
the ramp that led to the
Artifact during your first
visit. Behind the place where
the Artifact was you should
discovered a Purple Force Field,
which you should promptly
dissipate using the Judicator.

Proceed into the room behind
where the force field was. In it
you will find a door that you
can go through, but do not mess
with it now. That is for your
third visit to Alinos, and there
is really no point in entering
it during your second visit.
But, on the wall across from the
door, you will discover an
orange display that you can and
should scan. [251]

Continue on, and an Alimbic
Turret will attempt to dissuade
you from advancing. A few shots
will take it out. In the place
where the turret was, use your
scan visor to locate a hologram
to scan. [252] Further on
through the room you will be led
outside; this time you will be
on a ledge that you could not
previously reach. Start off by
staying on the left edge of the
ledge, and when you reach the
front take a right. You will
encounter a switch, and you
should scan in.

The switch activates what used
to be a stationary platform. It
moves from one end of the room
to the other, and it will allow
you to head into a part of
Alinos that was previously
inaccessible. Wait to the left
of the switch until the platform
comes, and then board it. Ride
it all the way across the room
until it stops beside another
ledge, at which time you should
depart from it.

In the air on the ledge that you
just got on, you will find a
hologram to scan (remember, they
are only visible when you have
the scan visor on). [253] Beyond
that, a purple door blocks your
path. Using the Judicator,
unlock the door so it will open
when you near it. Unfortunately,
though, there is a large gap in
front of the door. You cannot
simply jump over it because of a
low ceiling. So, run off into
the gap, and then use a midair
jump to head over to and through
the door.

In the next real room, you will
meet a strange red wasp. Scan
it, [254] and then avoid its
projectiles as you blast it out
of the sky. Below where the wasp
was, multiple blocks create
steps up to higher floor at the
end of the room. Avoid the
Zoomers that cover the rocks,
and go up the blocks until you
reach flat ground.

A Blastcap is on the ground and
beyond that the area. Run to the
wider part of the area, and as
you do a cutscene will reveal
Delano 7, Sylux's ship, flying
across the land. After the
cutscene, destroy the Red Barbed
War Wasp that is below you.
Then, put your scan visor on and
look at the platforms that are
to the left and right of the
ledge you are standing on. Two
holograms will appear, one on
each platform, and you should
scan them into your logbook.
[255] [256]

Then, walk off the edge onto the
ground in the area. Keep your
scan visor on, and you will find
yet another hologram at the base
of the ledge. [257] Also, you
can scan the ground in the
middle of the area. [258] Other
than that, there is nothing of
interest in this level so run to
the other side of the room and
jump up the blocks to get on the
ledge with the next door.

You will enter a room with a
path made specifically for the
Morph Ball. Use your Morph Ball
abilities to go through the path
until you reach the end of it,
at which time you should resume
biped form.

The area you enter will be a
massive room. Its floor is
covered with lava, and only a
few small rocks stick out of the
lava. One larger rock sticks out
a little higher than the rest,
and it can be used to jump back
on the ledge at the front of the
room should you fall into the
lava while trying to go across.
A few Petrasyls swarm around
near the lava, ready to further
harm anyone that falls in.

Walk to the middle of the ledge,
and you will see a moving
platform go next to it. Jump
onto the moving platform, and
ride it across much of the lava.
When it stops, you should see a
platform that moves left to
right (or vice versa) across the
room. It passes in front of the
moving platform you are on, so
look for it a jump on it.

On the second moving platform,
you will go back and forth to
both sides of the room. Either
side has yet another platform
that moves near the wall. If the
platform you are on comes near
to a moving platform on either
side of the room, then jump onto
the other moving platform (both
lead to the same place, so it
does not matter which side you
go to). Sometimes it will take
awhile for it to go near one of
the platforms; wait and be
prepared.

Once you are on the third moving
platform, wait for it to go next
to a ledge by the wall. Jump
onto the ledge, and you will
notice a Morph Ball passageway.
Use the Morph Ball to go through
the passageway. Follow it all
the way until you reach the jump
pad, and then go onto the jump
pad to get boosted out of the
passageway and onto a platform
near the opposite end of the
room from where you came in.
Switch to biped form, and then
scan the new version of the
Psycho Bits that will promptly
attack you. [259]

Since the latest version of the
Psycho Bit uses fire, it is best
to eliminate it using the
Judicator. However, there are
two blue triangles in this area
that emit Psycho Bits, and they
are far away from each other.
Because of that, do not worry
about the Psycho Bits for now.
Run along the narrow path that
leads up to the end of the room,
and try not to fall of. If you
do fall off, you will have to
run through the lava back to the
platform you landed on when you
came out of the Morph Ball
passageway. That would not be
pleasant, so quickly and
carefully make your way to the
top of the path and go through
the next Morph Ball passageway
that leads into the wall.

At the end of that passageway,
switch back to Samus's regular
biped form. After going through
a couple doors, you will enter a
humongous, wide-open area.
However, you are not the only
thing that will enjoy the
massiveness. Three Guardians are
also in the room, and they are
more than willing to take you
out. Pull out your Judicator and
have some fun. Try to avoid
taking much damage, though,
because you will need good
health for the next area.

When the Guardians are dead, a
door at ground level will open.
Since there are only two doors
on ground level it should not be
too hard to find it. It is not
the door in the metal wall, as
that is the door you came in
from; it is the door against the
stone wall. There is, of course,
much more to do in the wide
area, but before you can do it
all you need to gain the
Magmaul, which is found further
on in the level.

Upon reaching a small room with
a box, you will know that
something fierce is near. First,
scan the wall to the left of the
box [260] and destroy the box if
you need more ammo. Take a right
from there, and you will come to
another room with another box.
Again, scan the wall just beyond
the box; it is different than
the last wall you scanned. [261]
To the left, you will see a
yellow light that you can walk
through. Run past it into the
next room, which features a
gigantic lava pool with just a
thin walkway around the edge of
the room.

A hideous beast will emerge out
of the lava, and it will be time
for you to get your Judicator
ready. The beast is from the
lava, so something cold like the
Judicator will deal it severe
damage. Before you start
shooting though, scan the beast
to figure out what you are up
against and to add it to your
logbook. [262]

Now the beast, the Fire Spawn,
has a large, yellow eye-like
object that makes up most of its
head. After it emerges from the
lava, it will open this eye.
Send several shots of the
Judicator towards its eye-like
features, and notice how it
scoops up part of the lava.
Then, quickly strafe and jump as
it throws the lava it just
grabbed at you. The lava is
difficult to avoid, so you will
have to be watchful and move
fast.

After it throws lava a couple,
the Fire Spawn will dive back
into the lava and come up in a
different spot. Its eye will
start off closed, but it will
soon reopen. This would be a
good time to aim and charge the
Judicator, so when the eye does
open you can cause a great deal
of damage. Then, the whole
process will then repeat itself.
Continue to fire at the beast
until it is destroyed, at which
time the Magmaul will appear on
a platform in the room. Before
you go anywhere, scan the center
of the room; this is a room that
can be added to your logbook.
[263] Then, make your way up the
ramps in the room until you come
to the Magmaul. Scan it and then
take it. [264]

------------------
Magmaul Collected!
------------------

With the Magmaul in your
possession, you will need to
head back the way you came to
find one of the Artifacts.
However, first turn around on
the platform where you obtained
the Magmaul and look at the
Orange Force Field that is
against the wall, a little
higher than the other three
Orange Force Fields in the room.
Scan it and then demolish it
using your newly earned Magmaul.
[265] Head through the tunnel it
was protected, and at the end of
it you will find a valuable
Energy Tank (e6).

Then, run over to where you came
in, and destroy the Orange Force
Field that appeared to block
your exit. There are three
Orange Force Fields close each
other so it may be confusing as
to which one to go through;
while facing the wall, head
through the Orange Force Field
that is to the far right.

Upon reaching the colossal area
yet again, run to the left along
the wall. You will notice that
the wall is actually a ramp
leading down, and when you reach
the place where the ramp goes to
the ground then turn around and
head back up the ramp.

At the top, you will encounter a
new type of Voldrum, and you
need to scan it. [266] Pull your
Judicator out, and first destroy
the two blue triangles that emit
the Magma Voldrums. From there,
quash the remaining Voldrums.

During the battle, an Alimbic
Turret will fire at you from a
platform a short distance away
from the area you are on. After
you have dealt with the
Voldrums, decimate the turret.
Then, turn around and head up
the small ramp that you come to
that leads to the wall. Move
right along the wall until you
find an Orange Force Field that
is fairly high up. Jump up to
the area just above where you
are at so that you are next to
the force field, and then
eliminate it using the Magmaul.

In the area you come to, run to
the left and you will reach a
Missile Expansion (m7) (there
will be two short paths to the
left, so if you come to a dead
end and there is no Missile
Expansion then you will need to
go down the other path). With
that slight upgrade added to
your arsenal, turn around and
head the other direction. You
will pass the place where the
Orange Force Field was and soon
you will come to a wall. To the
left, a dark stone ramp will
lead to a higher portion of the
area.

That higher portion of the area
has a couple Psycho Bits, but
they can be easily crushed with
the Judicator. Near the place
where the Psycho Bits were, you
will find a switch. Shoot it,
and it will activate a platform
and a jump pad in the adjacent
room. After you are done with
that, walk just outside of that
area to the other, larger area.

To the right and a little ways
up, you will notice the platform
and the jump pad that were
activated. Jump from where you
are up to them, and then walk
onto the jump pad. It will shoot
you a good distance to a ledge
high above the center of the
room. Against the wall on that
ledge, you will see an orange
display. Once you scan it
another door in the room will be
unlocked.

All that is left now is to get
to that door. Walk up to the
orange display and turn to the
left. Walk off the edge, and
remember to use the midair jump
when you near the ground to
avoid damage. You will land on
or near another ramp, which you
should start to walk up. Partway
up the ramp you will come to a
switch, which you should shoot.
Like the last switch, it will
activate a platform and a jump
pad. Before continuing up the
ramp, look to the wall a small
ways to the right of the switch.
With your scan visor on you will
discover that you can scan it.
[267]

Continue up the ramp after that,
and a little while later you
will find a large, dark rock
structure to the left. Jump up
onto it, and once you are on top
you will be able to see the
platform you just moved using
the switch. With your abilities
you can jump from the rock onto
the platform, and from there the
jump pad will send you high into
the sky.

It will fling you to a ledge
right by the door you previously
unlocked. Go through the door
and the door after it, and you
will come to a tall room with
lots of debris in it. You will
start off at the top of the
room. Walk to the edge, and then
put your scan visor on and look
to the left. There is a scan
item there, [268] and to the
left past the scan item there is
a Shield Key.

Next, shoot the Blastcap to
destroy it, and then wait until
the poisonous spores it leaves
behind disappear. Then, jump
over to the debris it was on. If
you miss and fall to the bottom,
it is not that bad. You will
just have to jump back up the
debris to get to the Shield Key.
From that piece of debris, you
can jump all the way to the
Shield Key and snatch it,
thereby causing the Artifact
Shield on the ground to shut
off.

Jump down, but before you head
down the narrow tunnel to the
Artifact first turn around and
go to the opposite end of the
room. With your scan visor on,
you will find a hologram there
that you can scan. [269] Once
you have done that, then you may
proceed down the tunnel to
collect the Artifact. Having
taken the Artifact, go through
the door that is next to it.

The door leads to the massive
area, and once you are there run
to the door at ground level that
will take you to the place where
you fought the fire spawn.
Remember, it is the door against
the stone wall, not the metal
wall.

Once you reach the room where
you fought the Fire Spawn, turn
to the right and use the Magmaul
to eliminate the Orange Force
Field that is closest to you.
Jump into the room that was
protected by the force field,
and pull out your Judicator. A
Guardian will appear, ready to
fight, and you will have to
quickly eliminate it. Then, put
your scan visor on and you will
find a hologram to scan in the
room that you just entered
thanks to the Magmaul. [270]

Leave your scan visor on, and
start heading down the hallway
that leads to the right from the
room you entered. You will
encounter another hologram,
[271] and at the very end of the
hallway you will find yet
another hologram. [272] To the
right of the hologram is a
display panel for you to scan,
and it deactivates a normal
force field.

Travel back through the hallway,
journeying through the place
where the standard force field
was. Run onto the jump pad, and
use it to get onto the next
highest floor. Near the opening
that allowed you to get onto the
higher floor, you will find one
more hologram if you are using
your scan visor. [273] From
there, follow the hallway until
it comes to a large room. Also,
be sure to destroy the
Shriekbats in the hallway as you
go.

In the large room, two blue
triangles will appear and start
release Voldrums. One type you
have already scanned, but the
other one is new to you and
should be added to the logbook.
[274] When you have scanned it,
destroy both of the blue
triangles to prevent the
creation of new Voldrums. Then,
use the Magmaul to take out the
Ice Voldrums and use the
Judicator to take out the Magma
Voldrums.

After they are gone, the door at
the end of the room will unlock,
and the force field guarding the
hallway to the right of the door
will disappear. Go into the
hallway that was previously
inaccessible, and you will
immediately find the switch that
opens up the portal leading back
to your ship. Scan it to
activate the portal, and use it
to stop by you ship and save if
you feel the need.

Advance onward past the portal,
and you will enter a room where
much of the floor and ceiling is
made of normal force fields.
Several Petrasyls are also in
the room. Also in the room is an
orange display, which you should
scan. It will open up the lower
force fields, and it will also
make a Shield Key appear in the
room. Take the Shield Key, and
the top force field will also
disappear.

With both force fields gone,
fall through the opening on the
floor. You will land back in the
room where you fought the Fire
Spawn. There will be a disabled
jump pad near the place where
you land, and a switch will be
on the wall near the jump pad.
Shoot the switch to get the jump
pad back online. Then, step on
the jump pad. It will send you
straight up into the air, high
enough where you will be able to
get the Artifact. When you have
it, move forward so that you
land on the ledge in the room
where the Shield Key was.

Go back into the large room
where you fought the Voldrums,
and then proceed through the
only door in the room. It leads
to a simply massive room. In the
room are a plethora of scans,
and the initial temptation will
be to acquire them all at once.
However, resist that temptation.
The quest for the third Artifact
will take you near the throes of
death many times, and it is very
likely that you energy will
depleted multiple times. Well,
when you die you start back at
the last checkpoint, and you
lose all the scans you did after
that checkpoint. That checkpoint
is the beginning of this room,
and you do not want to have to
rescan everything each time you
try for the third Artifact. That
is why you should save the scans
for later.

Move to the right along the
ledge next to the door, and you
will see a large cistern shaped
thing. In that cistern is a
massive, circular platform that
moves up and down. Jump into
that cistern. If you miss it and
fall to the ground, you will
have to go to the other side of
the room and find the jump pad
to get back up. It is a pain,
but it is not that troublesome.

Ride the elevator platform in
the cistern all the way to the
bottom of the cistern, at which
point the elevator will
temporarily stop. There is a
Morph Ball passageway leading
out from the bottom of the
cistern, so quickly switch to
the Morph Ball form and roll
through it before the elevator
platform starts moving up again.

The area you come to will have a
ground covered with lava, and a
metal walkway goes across the
lava. Multiple blocks will push
across the top of the walkway,
and if you happen to be on that
section of the walkway when the
blocks extend you will be
knocked into the lava.
Fortunately, there are solid
slabs of ground at a few places
in the lava next to the wall. If
you ever fall in, roll onto the
solid ground and from there use
a power bomb to get back onto
the walkway.

Make your way across the metal
walkway, and avoid getting
pushed off. Wait until the
blocks start to move back, and
then roll across to a safe area.
It is not that difficult,
especially since you can go back
onto the walkway should you
accidentally fall it.

At the end of that walkway, you
will roll onto a solid pathway.
Several more moving blocks are
in the hallway, but this time if
you caught in them then you will
be crushed. It will equal
instant death for you, which is
why I warned against scanning
everything in the previous room.
Fortunately, a few of the blocks
do not move. Wait next to the
first set of blocks that smash
together, and when they start to
retract into the wall roll past
them into the next safe zone.

After that the next challenge is
two sets of blocks. You have to
move quickly and start going as
soon they begin retracting into
the wall, or you will not make
it to the next safe zone. Be
careful not to go too far, or
you might roll into the next set
of blocks and get smashed by
them. Once you are safe, roll
past the next set of blocks and
through the passageway.

Through that, you will enter an
area where you will see yourself
from a side view, just like in
previous 2-d games. The area
features several blocks moving
up and down, which you will need
to be wary of. Begin by rolling
onto the first block you see. It
will not crush you, so you are
safe above it. To the left of it
though are four blocks that move
down and will decimate anything
that gets stuck under them. They
alternate -- one moves down
while the block next to it moves
up.

Roll under the first downward
heading block as it goes into
the air, and when it is as high
as it will go roll under the
block next to it. Keep doing
this until you come to a place
where one block moves up and
another moves down, threatening
to crush anything that goes in
between them.

Stay next to the block that
moves up, and wait until it
reaches the floor. Continuously
press right in an attempt to get
on it, and you will roll onto it
as soon as possible. When you
do, keep pressing right and you
will barely make it to safety
before the two blocks smash
together. The upward moving
block after that is not
threatening, so casually roll
onto it and wait until it goes
all the way up so that you can
move out of the area.

You will come to a ledge against
the wall the curves around and
leads to another side view area
with more moving blocks.
Fortunately you cannot fall off
the ledge, so that is one less
thing to worry about. Several
large blocks will be on the
floor preventing you from simply
rolling across, and three blocks
will be above those heading
downward into them.

When the moving block closest to
you reaches the block to your
right, lay a power bomb. It will
explode, sending you into the
air so that you can move to the
right and get onto the blocks
that hinder your path. As the
two blocks beside the one you
are under move up, roll to the
right and use another power bomb
to get up onto an even higher
stationary block. There is a
downward moving block above
that, but it is only for
intimidation -- it cannot kill
you.

Beyond that, there is a large
drop with another block that
comes from the ceiling and
smashes the ground. Wait until
it reaches the ground, and then
roll over to it. Try to head
right even though it will block
you, and keep heading right as
it moves up. Eventually it will
move above your current location
and you will be able to go under
it. Roll to the right quickly,
making sure to move out of the
block's way before it hits the
ground.

Another upward moving block is
the last block that you have to
deal with, and it is friendly.
Ride on it to be escorted to the
top of the area, where you will
be able to proceed to the right.
In the next place you come to,
you will see an Artifact Shield.
Since it is hindering you from
obtaining the Octolith, use
power bombs to go up the large
steps that are behind the
Artifact Shield. At the top, use
a power bomb to get onto the
right ledge, where you will find
a Shield Key. The key will open
the shield, and then you will be
able to roll down to the
Artifact and grab it. Then, go
back up the stairs and this time
use a power bomb to open the
door at the top of them.

It leads to a Morph Ball path,
and at the end of that path you
will fall into the room where
you started the Morph Ball
journey. It is also the place
with multiple scans, so now that
you are relatively safe you can
obtain them.

In front of you will be a jump
pad; run over to it and use it
to jump high into the air. Move
forward a short distance so you
land on the circular wall that
surrounds the jump pad. Look
straight with your scan visor
on, and you will find a hologram
to scan. [275] Once you have
scanned that, head to the left
along the circular walkway and
you will find a UA Expansion.
(UA9)

Then, fall onto the floor of the
room. On the ground level of the
room, you will find three new
scans and the Stronghold Portal.
All three unique scans are
located near the base of the
tall, cylinder structures on
either side of the room. [276]
[277] [278] With those scans
added go through the Stronghold
Portal and go to the boss.

------------------
Boss: Cretaphid v3
------------------

As usual, begin the fight by
scanning the boss. [279] Now,
Cretaphid v3 is a combination of
both v1 and v2, meaning a few of
the nodes will emit lasers while
the rest will launch heat-
seeking plasma towards you. Just
like with Cretaphid v2, strafe
around Cretaphid to avoid the
plasma attacks.

The only problem this time is
that you will have to strafe
faster than the lasers will move
if you want to avoid the ultra
deadly green plasma. To remedy
this problem, simply watch where
the lasers are when you approach
them and either jump over them
or run under them. Jumping over
them is usually your best bet,
though if they are high enough
you will need to go under them.

Strafe around Cretaphid, and
destroy the nodes as they turn
blue. You have to disable all of
the nodes before you can
actually harm Cretaphid, even
the ones emitting the lasers.
The laser nodes will turn blue
for a split second when the
lasers initially turn off, and
they will turn blue again a
little while after that before
the lasers turn on again. Watch
them carefully, and shoot them
down as soon as you can. Once a
laser node is gone, it will not
longer emit a laser and your
fight will be safer.

The plasma nodes also change
from red to blue, though much
more frequently than the laser
nodes do. They too need to be
eliminated. I prefer taking out
all of the nodes with Judicator,
since it can ricochet off the
wall to potential harm nodes and
it can also take out a node with
a single hit. What weapon you
use is up to you, but the
Judicator is an awesome choice.

Once only one node is left,
switch to the missiles. You will
want them out for when you get a
chance to attack Cretaphid, and
you do not want to waste time
switching to them. Since you
should have a fairly large
missile capacity by this time,
using a single missile on a blue
node should not be detrimental.

After all of the nodes are gone,
charge up the Missile Launcher
and stand where you are. Aim at
the top of Cretaphid, and when
the blue box appears shoot your
charged missile directly at it.
Then, quickly shoot another
missile at it before it can
start attacking. When you have
made the initial attack, start
strafing around Cretaphid to
avoid the blue box's shots, but
continue to fire at it with your
missiles. As it heads back into
the safety of the pillar, switch
back to a regular weapon like
the Judicator to take out all of
the nodes again.

Cretaphid has three phases (one-
third health, two-thirds health,
full health). Just like in the
first Cretaphid duel, in each
phase the laser nodes will move
down and increase in number.
Take each phase on exactly the
same, though you might want to
focus a little more attention on
the laser nodes in later phases
so they do not hinder you as
much. Other than that, simply
destroy the nodes and use
missiles against the blue box as
previously explained.

It is possible to take out a
third of Cretaphid's health each
time the blue box appear. You
have to aim your missiles well
when you strafe around it and it
is challenging, but it is more
than possible. However, if you
fail to take out a third of its
health then simply damage all
the nodes and try again to
eliminate the remaining health
before the next phase.

Since Cretaphid does not produce
many powerups, you should mainly
focus on causing as much damage
as you can when given the
opportunity and taking as little
damage as you can when you
fight. Upon its defeat,
Cretaphid will explode, leaving
an Octolith in its place.
Collect the Octolith and the
health scattered around the
room, and then head out prepared
for an intense escape.

"...Lost ...we are all..."

---------------------------
Escape from Alinos: Visit 2
Time: 5 Minutes
---------------------------

Escape time! Run back through
the Stronghold Portal, and you
will enter the large room with
the two cylinders in it. There
is a good chance that a bounty
hunter will attack you here, but
your course of action should be
to ignore him. Run to the right
and go all the way behind the
massive cylinder there. You will
find an opening that leads into
the cylinder, and inside you
will find the jump pad that you
have previously used.

Use it again to get on the
circular outside wall at the top
of the cylinder, and from there
jump to the walkway in the
middle of the room. After you
are safely there, a quick hop to
the right will permit you to get
onto the ledge that has the door
leading out of the room. Since
it will be unlocked, you can
simply run through it without
first having to decimate the
bounty hunter that may attack
you.

In the circular room after the
door, travel through the hallway
to the right. Run through it
until you reach the large,
circular gap in the floor, which
you should fall through. Keep
going straight as you fall, and
you will find yourself in the
room where you fought the Fire
Spawn. This is another prime
location for enemy bounty
hunters, but just stay on the
lower path and run until you
reach the first entryway; it
should be the way you came in
this room the first time.

Forget about the couple of boxes
that are in the place after the
entryway, and continue on until
you reach the large area that
had three Guardians. Another
Guardian will probably be there,
though you should simply run
straight and to the right,
heading into the door against
the metal wall.

Past that door (and the hallway
after it), a path made only for
the Morph Ball will be in front
of you. Switch to the Morph
until you are through that
passageway, and then quickly
switch back to biped form. A
jump pad will be on a platform
in front of where you come out,
so jump to the platform and it
will launch you straight across
the room. At the end of that
room, another Morph Ball path
will be the exit.

Through the second Morph Ball
passageway, you will encounter
two desolate areas. At the end
of the two areas is a door, and
the path is very linear so you
should have not trouble locating
it. Avoid the enemies and jump
on through it.

Beyond that door, you will come
to the wide-open area where you
fought Spire during your first
visit. It is quite probable that
a Guardian or a bounty hunter
will lurk here; ready you
missiles and jump into the heat
of battle as soon as you can.
Use your strafing, jumping, and
aiming skills to quickly
dispatch the threat so that you
may continue. If your health is
running low, however, destroy
many of the plants in this room;
most of them will provide
energy. Should you have fought a
bounty hunter there, it will
most likely be your last intense
battle of the level, but it
never hurts to be cautious so
collect a little bit of energy.

When you are decently ready,
jump down the large hole in the
center of the area. It has
several hallways leading out
from it. Look towards the
hallway that goes to a jump pad,
and then go through the hallway
that is left to it. You might
have to use the Volt Driver to
take down the Yellow Force Field
in the hallway if you have not
already done that.

After you go through that
hallway, you will see a skinny
door to the left and a normal
door a reasonable distance to
your right. Journey through the
regular door to the right. It
leads to another room with a
Morph Ball passageway; switch to
the Morph Ball and head through
it.

At the end of that passageway,
you will enter a small room
where you should switch back to
biped form. It is also quite
possible that a bounty hunter
will reside in this room as
well. If a bounty hunter attacks
you here, fight it here. You can
travel through the Morph Ball
paths leading away from the room
if you wish, but you will
discover that if the bounty
hunter is still alive then the
door leading to your ship will
be locked. Fight the bounty
hunter in the small room if one
is there, using missiles to deal
with him as quickly as possible.

As you prepare to leave, use the
Morph Ball to travel through the
passageway on the wall across
from the passageway you just
came in from (the way you just
came in from has blue pillars
next to it). That path leads to
Echo Hall. Once you reach Echo
Hall, change to biped from and
run all the way through it and
the door that is at the end of
it. Through the door, you will
find the area where your ship
is. Jump across the platforms in
the lava and go up the stairs
onto the top of your ship. You
will then be able to save,
leave, and relax (until your
next mission, that is).

[251] Thermal Regulator
[252] History 02
[253] Alimbic Prophecy 06
[254] Red Barbed War Wasp
[255] Alimbic War 02
[256] Gorea 01
[257] Gorea 02
[258] Alimbic Garden
[259] Psycho Bit v3.0
[260] Glyph Pattern
[261] Wall Scroll
[262] Fire Spawn
[263] Council Chamber
[264] Magmaul
[265] Orange Force Field
[266] Magma Voldrum
[267] Ceremonial Charms
[268] Structural Debris
[269] Alimbic Pride 03
[270] Alimbic War 03
[271] Gorea 05
[272] Alimbic War 07
[273] Alimbic Pride 04
[274] Ice Voldrum
[275] Alimbic Pride 02
[276] Backup Processor
[277] Lava Processor 01
[278] Lava Processor 02
[279] Cretaphid v3

====================
H. Arcterra: Visit 2
====================

Although Vesper Defense Outpost
was a likely candidate as your
third planet when you were first
visiting the system, Arcterra
should be the third place you
head to for your second visits
to places in the Tetra Galaxy.

Upon reaching Arcterra, run off
the edge of the platform you
start out on. There is no need
to waste time going down the
safe way; use the midair jump
near the bottom to secure no
damage when you land. After
that, head through the only door
at the bottom of the area.

The next place you come to will
be the area where the damaged
bridge and the six proxy locks
are. It is very likely that a
bounty hunter will attack you
here; fire your missiles and try
to stay in the corridor as much
as possible. Enemies outside the
corridor could hinder your
battle, but if you need the
extra space then do not be
afraid to head outside.

Once the bounty hunter is dead,
pull out the Magmaul and go
outside of the corridor (if you
aren't outside already. On the
outside wall straight across
from where you entered, you will
find an orange door. Shoot it
with the Magmaul, and it will
unlock.

Beyond that door, you will enter
the ice caves. In the ice caves
are four Quadtroids as well as a
few scan. First, travel down the
tunnel to the right and you will
encounter several beams of
electricity coming out of a
single structure. Scan the
structure [301], and then head
back the way you came. You will
find a Quadtroid near the door
you came in from, so destroy
that. Remember, if it grabs you
then use the Morph Ball and a
power bomb to escape.

Instead of heading back through
the door, continue on past it
through another tunnel in the
ice caves. When you see more
Quadtroids, put your scan visor
on and look near the ceiling by
the right wall. With your scan
visor on, a hologram that was
previously invisible will become
visible so that you can scan it.
[302]

Ignore the Quadtroids there for
now, and leave your scan visor
on as you continue down the
tunnel. You will encounter
another hologram in the tunnel,
which you should scan. [303]
Now, there are two force fields
blocking you from heading
further into the ice caves; the
current tunnel only loops back
around to the Shock Barrier. To
advance onward, defeat the
remaining three Quadtroids in
the area.

After they are gone, a short
scene will reveal the removal of
both force fields. It does not
matter which tunnel you journey
through, as they both lead to
the same place. At the end of
either tunnel, you will enter a
room in the caves that is
covered with snow. A door with a
Red Blast Shield is at the far
left corner of the room a good
distance away.

When you enter the room, an
Arctic Spawn will emerge from
the floor. Quickly scan it [304]
and equip your Magmaul. It
functions just like the Fire
Spawn, only it throws ice
instead of fire. Charge up the
Magmaul and shoot it straight
into the eye-type part of the
creature, and then keep firing
at it while you move and jump
around to avoid getting hit by
the ice. As soon as it
disappears into the ground,
charge up the Magmaul to inflict
maximum damage upon its
reappearance.

The creature will die once its
health is depleted, and then the
Imperialist will appear in the
room next to the door. Run over
to it, scan it, [305] and then
move onto it in order to claim
it as your own. At once, the
view will temporarily shift to
focus on a red triangle high on
a wall in the room. Then, the
game will display a message
about using the Imperialist. It
will tell you that to zoom with
it you need to double tap the
Imperialist icon or to press R
when it is equipped. However,
pressing R to zoom only works in
Stylus Mode, so if you are using
Dual Hand Mode then double
tapping the icon is the only way
to zoom.

----------------------
Imperialist Collected!
----------------------

Your first order of business
should be to aim at the red
triangle on the wall. Zoom in by
double tapping the Imperialist
icon, and when you are aiming at
the red triangle shoot it. A
musical confirmation will follow
your success, and a platform in
the middle of the room will
start moving up and down.

Ride the platform to the next
floor of the room, and at the
top jump to a nearby and solid
ledge. Half of the top floor is
blocked by a force field, so you
will need to do something about
that. Walk along that ledge
until you come to the jump pad,
which will send you up into the
air.

At the end of the snowy pathway,
you will find a large UA pack.
Instead of continuing on to the
next room once you reach the
pack, turn around and equip the
sniping Imperialist. Walk
slightly down the path, and then
zoom in and look at the top of
the force field. Just barely
above it on the left and right
sides of the room are two red
triangles. If you go to low, you
will be at too much of an angle
and will hit the force field
instead of the red triangles;
make sure that you are aiming
above the force field. Then,
shoot the red triangle on both
the left and right sides of the
room.

When both have been hit
successfully, the force field
will go down. You will need to
go into the other half of that
room later, but for now turn
around and drop into the room
that the path leads to. All at
once, three blue triangles in
the room will appear and start
dispersing enemies. Take down
the three blue triangles, and
then decimate all of the many
enemies that they release. You
probably do not want the
Imperialist for this, so switch
to another weapon.

Upon defeating all of the
enemies in the room, a Shield
Key will appear. It is on the
ground near the end of the left
wall (if you are standing at the
place where you entered). As you
walk along the left wall, have
your scan visor on. You will
find a hologram to scan next to
the left wall and the high area
of ground. [306] After you scan
it, continue on and fall all the
way to the ground, where you
will see the Shield Key. Grab
the key, and a scene will show
the vanishing of the force field
guarding the Artifact behind the
Shock Barrier.

While you could merely run
through the Shock Barrier to
obtain the Artifact, it is much
safer and smarter to simply
disable it. Walk along the
ground until you find two
pillars with electricity going
up the center of them. Both of
the pillars are clear, and a
display is in between them. Scan
the display and it will disable
the electricity in the pillars
as well as in the Shock Barrier.

To the right is a ramp leading
up to the area where you fought
the enemies. Jump up it, and on
the area that is a little higher
look around until you see a tall
plateau with a pillar on the top
of it. Jump up the many sections
of land until you are at the
top, next to the pillar. Scan
the base of the pillar, and it
will inform you that the pillar
is weak. Launch a missile at the
base, and it will topple over.

Travel across the fallen pillar
to a ledge on the other side of
the room. When you reach the
ledge, turn to the right and
continue along it. At the end of
the ledge, you will be presented
with a small gap. Beyond that
gap is a tunnel; jump to the
tunnel.

The tunnel leads to the place
where you acquired the
Imperialist. Drop down to the
bottom of that area, and go
through one of the ice tunnels.
Run through the tunnels until
you reach the Shock Barrier and
the Artifact it used to be
protecting. Steal the Artifact
from its resting spot, and then
return back through the tunnels
to the room where you got the
Imperialist.

Now, turn your attention to the
door protected by a Red Blast
Shield. Zap it with the
Imperialist. Before you go
through it, however, take the
scan visor and scan the blue
hologram above the door. [307]
Through the door you will find a
place only the Morph Ball can
get through. Make the switch and
head into it.

------------------------
Morph Ball Ice Labyrinth
------------------------

It leads to the Morph Ball
Labyrinth you traveled through
once before. As soon as you
enter the labyrinth, you will be
allowed to go up, down, or left.
Roll to the left. Beyond that,
the path is simple. Continuously
head up and to the left. If you
ever come to a spot where you
can go straight up or straight
left, go straight up. Soon you
will come to a single green
laser that periodically blocks a
pathway to the left. Wait until
the laser temporarily
disappears, and then roll past
it.

Beyond that single laser that
guards a path to the left, there
are no more branches in the
pathway. Roll along the pathway
as it curves up and left and
then the right and down. It will
keep going, and at the end of it
you will find a dead end with a
hole for the Morph Ball to go
through.

Since you are already the Morph
Ball, getting through the hole
should be no problem. However,
should is the key word. For some
reason, it is often difficult to
get in the hole in the wall. If
you do not go in, just keep
trying and trying. Eventually
you will manage to roll in and
continue on.

Past that passageway, you will
find a red door in an open room.
Change to biped form and use the
Imperialist to get through the
door. After that door, you will
come to a tall room. You will
enter at the top of the room,
and there will be a ledge almost
all the way around the top layer
of the room.

Start by traveling along the
left ledge, which has walls on
each side of it. It leads to a
UA Expansion. (UA10) Once you
collect the UA Expansion, put
your scan visor on and look
forward beyond where the UA
Expansion was. A hologram to
scan will appear for you to add
to your logbook. [308]

After the UA Expansion is a hole
in the ledge. Drop through the
hole, and you will land at the
bottom of the room. Once you
land, do not walk anywhere. Put
your scan visor on and turn to
the left. You will see a
display, which you can scan.
[309] To the right of the
display, against the wall, is an
action scan. It is one of the
Spectral Locks the display told
about. Scan it, and you will be
informed that Spectral Lock 3
was deactivated. Leave your scan
visor on, and turn to the right
even more. You will find a blue
hologram to scan [310] and to
the right of that is yet another
blue hologram. [311]

Now, turn back to the left, and
you will find a Greater Ithrak
on the ceiling to the left of
the display. If you have not
scanned it yet, do that now.
When you are ready, strafe to
the left in a circular pattern
around the Greater Ithrak. Make
your distance large so you go
next to the wall as you strafe
to the left, and you will walk
behind another wall a little
ways into the room that will
block your view of the Ithrak.
On that wall is the second lock
that you should scan. It is
Spectral Lock 1.

Continue to strafe to the left
until you are almost next to the
Artifact Shield. Once there, arm
yourself with the Imperialist
and zoom in towards the Greater
Ithrak. Shoot the soft
underbelly of the Ithrak and it
will terminate, allowing you to
traverse the room in peace.

Journey beyond the Artifact
Shield, and you will discover a
small UA pack. Run over to it
with your scan visor on, and
just past it you will find a
hologram to scan. [312] Then,
jump up the steps after the
hologram and you will come to a
flat hallway, which leads to the
ledge that encompasses the top
of the room. In that hallway you
will see a hologram if you have
your scan visor on, and you
should scan it as well. [313]

Backtrack once you have that
Gorea 03 scan, and stop when you
reach the entryway that leads
out of the cramped area where
the small UA pack was. Take an
immediate and sharp left,
traveling past the display. Past
that display you will walk into
a narrow path caused by a
support wall partway into the
room. Have your scan visor on as
you move into the tight space
between walls, and you will find
Spectral Lock 2, which will be
the third Spectral Lock you
scan.

When you have scanned it, a
force field imprisoning a red
triangle on the opposite side of
the room as the Artifact Shield
will vaporize. Go to the end of
the small passageway, and a
short distance up along the wall
you should find the red
triangle. Zoom in with the
Imperialist and shoot it. Having
done that, a Shield Key will
appear in front of the red
triangle.

Since the Shield Key is on a
ledge, jump onto the short,
broken pillar base that is to
the left of the red triangle.
From there, you will be able to
jump onto the ledge and acquire
the key. Then, speed to the
other side of the room and take
you second Artifact. Once you
have it, two Guardians will jump
down from the ceiling and attack
you. Use your missiles to deal
with them, although you could
use the Imperialist if you
wanted to try it out in a
battle; just realize that it
takes a short while for it to
recharge so you have to make
every shot count.

When the Guardians are dead, go
to the place where the small UA
pack was and jump up the steps
inside of the tunnel. When you
reach the ledge at the top of
the room, travel left and you
will come to the door that
originally allowed you to enter
the room.

Go through the door, and switch
into a Morph Ball to get through
the passageway. Roll along
through the passageway and
through the ice labyrinth until
you reach the first green laser.
From there, continuously travel
down and to the right until you
reach the place where you reach
the passageway you came in from.

At the end of the passageway,
chance to biped from and use the
Imperialist to open the door.
Enter the room beyond it (which
is where you fought the Arctic
Spawn and received the
Imperialist), and ride the
moving platform up to the second
floor of the room.

This time, jump over to the half
of the area that was protected
by the force field. On the wall
to the left, you will find a
deactivated portal and a switch.
Scan the switch to open the
portal, and then travel through
the portal to recover health and
ammo. When you return, hop on
the jump pad at the end of the
room. It will send you up to a
small, snow-covered hallway. At
the end of that short hallway is
a door, which you should go
through.

In the room you come to, there
will be a large corridor.
However, the floor of the
corridor is gone. Start by going
to the edge of the floor of the
corridor that is still intact,
and you will find yourself on a
platform that begins to move
forward along the corridor. Have
your power beam ready, and shoot
all the enemies that you
encounter. There will be
Petrasyls, Shriekbats, and War
Wasp, and you should slaughter
them all.

Once the platform reaches the
end of the corridor, walk off it
and go through the door. The
next area you come to is
circular and fairly small, but
numerous force fields turn it
into the maze. As you enter the
room, the game will alert you to
the presence of three red
triangles by the ceiling near
the top, center of the room. You
will need to shoot each one with
the Imperialist straight on. If
you are off to the side, then
you will not succeed in hitting
them. Sometimes they will close
up if you are in a certain
place, so if you are in position
to shoot one but it is closed
then you will need to find a
different sniping spot. After a
hit, a musical tone will
announce your success and the
red triangle will stop blinking
a red light. Move throughout the
maze, shooting every red
triangle. When all three have
been hit, the game will f0ocus
on the circle in the center of
the room.

Make your way onto the circle,
and you will find that it is an
elevator leading to a place
below the circular room. At the
bottom, you will find a long
hallway. With your scan visor
on, walk a short distance off of
the elevator and turn to the
left. You will find an object to
scan. [314] Keep going down the
hallway, and you will reach a
Missile Expansion. (m8) After
the Missile Expansion, verify
that you have your scan visor on
and scan the hologram that is
near the end of the hallway.
[315]

When you have that scan, turn
around and start heading back
the way you came. In the left
wall (which was the right coming
in), you will find a tunnel.
Have your scan visor equipped,
and you will locate yet another
hologram for your scanning
enjoyment. [315] After that
tunnel, you will come to another
hallway. Take a left, and with
your scan visor on you will find
another hologram for the
logbook. [317]

Past that hologram is an ultra-
sophisticated Alimbic Turret
that uses the same attack as the
Imperialist. Scan the turret
since this is the first time you
have encountered this version,
[318] and then launch several
missiles at it to shred it
before it can do significant
damage to you.

While the remains of the turret
fade away, a Shield Key will
materialize just below where the
turret was. Take the Shield Key,
and the Artifact Shield at the
other end of the hallway will
dissipate. Turn around and run
straight to the end of the
hallway, where you will find the
final Artifact of Arcterra. Grab
the Artifact, and the force
field past it will disappear.
Travel through the doorway where
the force field was, and head
left. When you come to the end,
you will be in the place where
the elevator platform was.

However, the platform will be up
because you scanned the Lift
Controls when you first came in.
Scan them again, and they will
send the elevator platform back
down. Then, you may walk onto
the platform. It should go up
automatically.

The circular room where the
force fields are is where the
elevator will stop, and from
there you can start making your
way out. But, partway through
many Guardians will jump into
the room and deactivate all of
the force fields. Equip your
missiles and strafe along the
room, taking them out one by
one. You can also try to get
some headshots with the
Imperialist since they give you
instant kills, but realize that
it shoots slowly and you might
have trouble sniping at close
range. The missile launcher is
generally the best way to go.

Upon the Guardians' death, the
force field blocking the door
you came in from will disappear.
You will then be able to go back
through the door. Beyond the
door, you will come to the long
corridor with the stupid little
moving platform that travels
across it. Of course, who wants
to ride on a stupid little
moving platform twice? Not I,
and neither should you. For this
reason, jump all the way over
the moving platform and into the
abyss beyond it. (Please note
that you should only do this if
you have a decent amount of
health left.)

You will land in muck that hurts
you, and if you simply stand in
it you will lose your health
very quickly. Instead of running
through it, continuously jump
forward and you will be able to
traverse the entire corridor
only acquiring about one hundred
damage or less. The end of the
corridor features a stone
structure that you can jump onto
so that you are safe from the
muck. When you are at the top of
that structure, you will find a
jump pad that will launch you to
the top of the room.

As you go up, you will see a UA
Expansion. (UA11) Move forward
to collect it, and then drop
back down onto the jump pad. The
next time you go up after you
obtain the UA Expansion, head
forward as much as you can and
you will land safely next to the
door at the end of the corridor.

Beyond that, you will be back at
the room where you took the
Imperialist. Trek through the
portal and return to your ship
to save a restore health and
ammo, and then come back. Go to
the jump pad on the side of the
room opposite where you just
came from. It leads to the room
where you got the first Shield
Key and where you disabled the
electricity coming from the
Shock Barrier. As you enter the
room, multiple enemies will
appear. However, you should
ignore them and run straight to
the other side of the room.
There you will find the
Stronghold Portal, which will
take you to the long walkway
that leads to the boss.

------------------
Boss: Cretaphid v4
------------------

The fourth and final version of
Cretaphid is almost an exact
replica of version three, only
it can move around the room and
its green lasers are more deadly
than the red lasers that
previous version had. First,
scan this last version of
Cretaphid. [319]

As usual with Cretaphid, you
will have to strafe around it to
avoid getting hit by the green
plasma. And like the last
version of Cretaphid, you will
have to strafe faster than the
green lasers move. To remedy
this problem, simply watch where
the lasers are when you approach
them and either jump over them
or run under them. Jumping over
them is usually your best bet,
though if they are high enough
you will need to go under them.

While strafing around, you will
also notice that the pillar
itself moves towards you. This
can make fight cramped,
especially when it pins you into
a wall. However, it will never
actually go all the way to the
wall, so as long as you stay
near the edge of the room you
will be safe. But, it is easier
to get hit when so close to
Cretaphid; make sure that you
move away from it as soon as
possible.

Strafe around Cretaphid, and,
again, destroy the nodes as they
turn blue. You have to disable
all of the nodes before you can
actually harm Cretaphid, even
the ones emitting the lasers.
The laser nodes will turn blue
for a split second when the
lasers initially turn off, and
they will turn blue again a
little while after that before
the lasers turn on again. Watch
them carefully, and shoot them
down as soon as you can. Once a
laser node is gone, it will not
longer emit a laser and your
fight will be safer.

The plasma nodes also change
from red to blue, though much
more frequently than the laser
nodes do. They too need to be
eliminated. For this battle,
your best bet is probably the
power beam. By repeatedly
tapping the fire button you can
quickly destroy many of the
nodes, allowing you to move on
quicker than usually.

Once only one node is left,
switch to the missiles. You will
want them out for when you get a
chance to attack Cretaphid, and
you do not want to waste time
switching to them. Since you
should have a fairly large
missile capacity by this time,
using a single missile on a blue
node should not be detrimental.

After all of the nodes are gone,
charge up the Missile Launcher
and stand where you are. Aim at
the top of Cretaphid, and when
the blue box appears shoot your
charged missile directly at it.
Then, quickly shoot another
missile at it before it can
start attacking. When you have
made the initial attack, start
strafing around Cretaphid to
avoid the blue box's shots, but
continue to fire at it with your
missiles. As the blue box heads
back into the safety of the
pillar, switch back to the power
beam to take out all of the
nodes again.

Cretaphid has three phases (one-
third health, two-thirds health,
full health). Just like in the
third Cretaphid battle, in each
phase the laser nodes will move
down and increase in number.
Meanwhile, the nodes the used to
emit lasers will begin to shoot
green plasma. Take each phase on
exactly the same, though you
might want to focus a little
more attention on the laser
nodes in later phases so they do
not hinder you as much. Other
than that, simply destroy the
nodes and use missiles against
the blue box as previously
explained.

It is possible to take out a
third of Cretaphid's health each
time the blue box appear. You
have to aim your missiles well
when you strafe around it and it
is challenging, but it is more
than possible. This time is even
more challenging than all the
other phases since Cretaphid
will move around the room as you
try to aim your missiles at him.
It is okay if you fail to take
out a third of its health every
time, but you want to try to
cause as much damage as possible
whenever the blue box appears.

Since Cretaphid does not produce
many powerups, you will need to
mainly focus on causing as much
damage as you can when given the
opportunity and taking as little
damage as you can when you
fight. However, if a powerup
does appear be sure to charge up
your power beam so that it comes
to you. With a little skill, you
will be able to annihilate
Cretaphid once and for all. Upon
its defeat, Cretaphid will
explode, leaving an Octolith in
its place. Collect the Octolith
and the health dispersed among
the room, and then head out. You
will need to make a quick escape
from Arcterra.

"...End was upon us all..."

-----------------------------
Escape from Arcterra: Visit 2
Time: 4:00 Minutes
-----------------------------

The escape is intense, but it is
not too much for you to handle.
Start by heading out through the
Stronghold Portal as you
typically do. You will end up in
the room where you had a great
fight against many lesser
creatures; it is the room with
the pillar that you knocked
down. Jump up to the pillar and
run across it onto the ledge on
one side of the wall. When you
reach the ledge, hang a right
and go to the end of it. From
there, you will be able to jump
into a tunnel that leads out of
that room.

You will come to the room where
you obtained the Imperialist.
Drop down to the base of the
room, and there you will find
two tunnels leading into the ice
caves. Either one works, so run
through them and through the ice
caves until you come to a door,
which you should go through.

Through the door, you will come
to the open area where you
fought Noxus and Trace during
your first visit. Most likely,
you will meet another bounty
hunter here. If you do encounter
one, use missiles to eliminate
him as quickly as possible. Once
the area is free of any bounty
hunters, run into the corridor
straight across from the door
you came through and go through
the door on the left side of the
corridor (it is the door against
the wall that is opposite the
wall you came out of).

That door leads to the tall area
where your ship is stationed.
There is nothing particularly
interesting here; all you have
to do is get up to your ship. It
is the same path as last time,
so jump up the many pieces of
rock and go along the ledge so
that you can reach your ship.
When you make it to the platform
where your ship is located, jump
up onto the front of your ship
and go to the middle of it to
enter your ship.

[301] Shock Barrier
[302] Alimbic War 09
[303] Seal Sphere 01
[304] Artic Spawn
[305] Imperialist
[306] Oubliette 01
[307] Alimbic Prophecy 08
[308] Alimbic War 01
[309] Spectral Locks
[310] Alimbic War 06
[311] Gorea 04
[312] Alimbic War 12
[313] Gorea 03
[314] Lift Control
[315] Alimbic War 04
[316] Alimbic War 11
[317] Alimbic War 05
[318] Alimbic Turret v2.7
[319] Cretaphid v4

================================
I. Vesper Defense Outpost: Visit
2
================================

This should be your second and
last visit to the Vesper Defense
Post. Since this place is small,
you should be able to get in and
out with the Octolith in a
matter of minutes. When you
begin, run over to the jump pad
and use it to move onto the
walkway above your ship. Once
there, head into the portal.

It leads to the room right
before the hallway where you
fought Sylux. However, you do
not want to head down that
hallway. Instead, fall through
the hole in the center of the
room that has an elevator
platform moving up and down in
the midst of it.

After you are through that hole
and on the ground on the floor
below, you might have a battle
waiting for you. Listen for any
music indicating that bounty
hunter is present. If one is,
you will have to quickly destroy
it with missiles so that you may
continue. It is quite possible
that a Guardian lurks in this
area as well, so if your hear
the music signifying one then
you will have to go until you
find the Guardian and then shoot
it out with missiles. When you
have finished those orders of
business, turn to the red door
that is just past the moving
platform. Pull out the
Imperialist and shoot it, which
will unlock it so that you may
enter it.

Through the door is a corridor,
and after that corridor is a
lone room that has many objects
in it. In the center of the room
is a glass case with many frozen
Guardians imprisoned in it. Also
in the room are two Artifact
Shields, as well as two blue
triangles that release Magma
Voldrums.

First off, destroy all the
Voldrums and the blue triangles
that release them. Then, head
towards the door at the end of
the room. Next to the door are
dead Guardians, which you can
scan. [351] Beyond the door that
the dead Guardians are next, you
will come to a corridor defended
by an Alimbic Turret 2.7. Since
you should already have its scan
from the last level, blast it to
pieces before it can deal you
any significant damage.
Actually, if you stand next to
the glass case with the frozen
Guardians and use the
Imperialist, you can snipe it
without it even knowing you are
there.

Continue up the corridor as soon
as the turret is defeated, and
it will take you a good distance
up. At the top of the corridor,
you will be permitted to travel
down a corridor to the right or
straight. For now, head straight
and decimate the Ice Voldrum and
its blue triangle using the
Magmaul.

Beyond that corridor, you will
come to a room with the
Stronghold Portal in it. On one
side of the room is a turret,
which you should destroy. Having
done that, scan the display that
is in the room. It will activate
another display in the room
where the frozen Guardians are.

Turn back around after scanning
the display, and switch into
Morph Ball form. You are going
to need speed, so boost as often
as you can. Travel back the way
you came, journeying through the
corridor to the right at the end
of the room. Continue through
that corridor, and keep going
straight even when you have the
option to turn left. From there,
it is a downhill course to the
room with the frozen Guardians.
Inside the room, roll all the
way near the door that
originally led into the room,
and turn to the left to find the
display. Scan it immediately. If
you do not make it in time, just
go back to the first display and
try again.

Scanning the second display will
make a Shield Key appear in a
room higher up. Change back to
Morph Ball, and travel back up
the corridor you just came from.
This time, however, choose the
path to the right when you are
presented the option to turn or
continue straight through the
corridor. It leads to another
room, and to the right of where
you come in there is a cramped
hallway, which is marked by two
blue pillars. Travel through the
hallway; it will take you to the
Shield Key. Roll onto the key to
collect it and disable the
shield. Should you fail this
time, you must restart all the
way back at the first display,
which is a pain.

The Shield Key is seated on a
ledge. Before you leave the
area, jump up onto the ledge on
either the right or left side of
the room. From there, you will
be able to jump onto the back of
the object hanging from the
ceiling and obtain a UA
Expansion. (UA12) Once you
obtain it you should fall all
the way down. You will find
yourself in the corridor where
you fought the extremely
advanced security turret. Travel
downward along the corridor, and
you will come to the room with
the two Artifacts. One of the
Artifact Shields will be down,
so you can snatch the Artifact
it was covering.

At that moment, several of the
Guardians in the room will be
revived, and they will promptly
break out of their glass
enclosure. Equip some deadly
weaponry and fight as hard as
you can to eliminate them all
without dying yourself. Defeat
them all, and then another
Shield Key will appear behind
the orange pillar in a small
indentation of the curved
hallway where you fought the Ice
Voldrum. Run up to the second
floor and travel straight into
the curved hallway, and then go
behind the pillar and claim the
key. Once you have it, go back
down to the room where you
fought the Guardians and grab
your second Artifact.

Upon collecting the second
Artifact, a door on the second
floor will unlock. Run up the
corridor the second floor, but
do not be anxious to go through
the door just yet. You still
have some scanning to do.
Instead of heading straight into
the curved hallway, make a right
turn and go to the room that led
to the cramped hallway, at the
end of which was the first
Shield Key.

In that room is a Magma Voldrum
and the blue triangle that
produces it, so dismember them
as quickly as possible. Once
that is done, take note of
another glass case with
Guardians in it. However, that
is not what you are here to
scan. Put on your scan visor,
and all of a sudden eight --
yes, eight
-- holograms will appear around 
frozen Guardians. Make sure that
you can all eight of the
holograms, and then move on to
the side of the room opposite of
where you came it. [352] [353]
[354] [355] [356] [357] [358]
[359] There you will find
another corridor, and on the
right side of that corridor is
the door that was unlocked.

Since you have everything you
need from this area, go through
the door to travel to the next.
It leads to an abandoned room,
and in the center of that room
is an elevating platform that
moves up along four white lines.
Board the platform as soon as
you have the chance, and ride it
all the way up. At the top, you
will find a ledge that has a
door on it. Jump to the ledge,
but before you go through the
door scan the switch that is
also on the ledge. It opens up
the portal next to the door.

Past the door is a large room
with a vertical wind tunnel in
the center of it. Start by
walking to the left around the
edge of the room. Immediately, a
burst of fire will fall into the
wind tunnel, creating an energy
overflow that could lead to a
meltdown. That is obviously not
good, but the only way to stop
the meltdown is to scan a
display at the top of the room.

-------------------------
Energy Overflow Initiated
-------------------------

Because of the timed nature of
this task, you will have to run
quickly through the corridor.
You will come to a tall room,
and in that room is a jump pad.
Hop on the jump pad and move to
the left when you are high; you
will land on a small platform.
From there, jump up the many
other platforms in the room
until you reach the top of the
room. There you will find a
tunnel to run through.

The tunnel has many Zoomers, but
you should ignore them as much
as possible. Just run through
the tunnel until you come to
another tall room with a jump
pad. At the top of the jump
caused by that jump pad, go to
the right and you will land on
yet another platform. This time
you will also have to jump up
multiple platforms to get to the
top, but the platforms are
farther apart so it will be
higher. You have to go to the
edge of the platform (though not
further than the edge) and jump
to make it onto the subsequent
platforms. It is challenging and
sometimes it may seem as if it
is impossible to reach the next
platform; however, you will have
to keep on trying. If you fall
off, you are basically done and
you will have try again to stop
the meltdown.

At the top, run through the
white light that looks like a
wall. Beyond that light you will
enter the room where the wind
tunnel is. Run onto the circular
walkway that goes around the
wind tunnel, but once you are on
it do not head straight.
Instead, turn almost completely
around to travel left along the
walkway. You will see two small
platforms against the wall.

Jump up the platforms, as they
will take you to a higher ledge.
Run along that ledge, and at the
end of it you will come to a
lone platform. Go onto the
platform, and it will begin to
rise into the air. It will stop
next to the indentation in the
wall where the display is, so
jump into the indentation and
scan the display to stop the
meltdown.

--------------------------
Energy Overflow Terminated
--------------------------

The world will now be safe, and
the last Shield Key of the game
will appear. It is a good ways
down, but you do not want to
head down too quickly. In your
rush to make it to the top there
were some scans you passed by,
and you will need to get those
before advancing.

Step back onto the moving
platform when it comes back up,
and ride it down to the ledge
that is stops next to. Hurry
onto the ledge, and run across
it to avoid the many shots of
the Psycho Bits that are now
there. Drop off the end of the
ledge onto the lower walkway.
There you will be able to
decimate the blue triangle that
releases the Psycho Bits, and
after that you will be able to
deal with the Psycho Bits
themselves.

Now that you have some time to
relax, equip your scan visor and
look towards the wind tunnel in
the middle of the room. It has a
scan it the middle of it that
you can scan from the ledge you
are on. [360] Then, keep your
scan visor on and turn to the
part of the room that has the
white light that look like a
wall. A hologram is there for
you to scan, [361] and you can
also scan the striped blue wall.
[362]

Instead of going through the
white light, though, continue
along the walkway until you come
to a circle in the ground. It
marks an elevator platform,
which will promptly take you
down. When it stops on the next
lowest ledge, disembark from it
and annihilate the turret that
is there. Walk downward along
the spiraling ledge, and at the
bottom of it you will find a
Missile Expansion. (m9) Steal it
for your inventory, and then
head all the way back up.

To the left of the force field
at the top you will discover a
display. Scan the display, and
it will deactivate the force
field. Go through the entryway,
and you will enter a narrow and
curved corridor. Walk through
the corridor until you can see
the room it leads to, and then
stop and pull out the
Imperialist. There is an
advanced turret on the wall of
the room, so zoom in and snipe
the turret from a distance.

Once you destroy it, causing it
to have no chance to retaliate,
move closer towards the room.
You will find another turret
when you get closer, which you
should also snipe. Before you
leave the corridor, put on your
scan visor and look at the
ceiling of it. You will discover
a blue pipe, which you can scan.
[363] Then, proceed towards the
Artifact Shield.

Inside the room, put on your
scan visor and you will find a
hologram right in front of the
Artifact Shield. [364] Scan the
Artifact, and then drop down to
an area lower in the room. There
you will discover the Shield
Key, which will disable the very
last Artifact Shield.

Since you are too low to reach
the Artifact now, though, leave
the room. As soon as you do, use
your scan visor to locate and
scan a hologram in the area next
to it. [365] From there, go
through the hallway to the
right. It leads to the tall room
where you use jump pads and
platform to get to the top.
Instead of using the jump pad,
however, go through the white
"wall" that is in the room. It
leads to a lower section of the
spiraling ledge, which you can
travel up to reach the room with
the Artifact.

Grab the Artifact and breath a
sigh of relief. If you have gone
in order, this should be the
last Artifact you should ever
have to take. Fall back down in
the room where the Artifact was,
and head out of it. Do not go
right this time, though. Go to
the left. It leads to the top of
the other room with platforms
and a jump pad, and you will be
at the top of it. This time
around, a blue triangle will be
on the wall producing Psycho
Bits. Take out the triangle and
the Psycho Bits, and then put on
your scan visor and examine the
wall. You will find two sections
of the wall to scan. One is just
the Cooling Vent, which you
scanned earlier, and the other
is a faint window that has
Cryogenic Storage containers
behind it. [366]

Then, you may jump down the hole
in the room to head to the base
floor of the area. You have done
all you need to do in this area;
run to the door on the other
side of the place and go through
it. It leads to the ledge where
the portal is. Since you are
about to face the boss, you
probably want to go through the
portal and power up at your
ship.

Drop down to the bottom of the
room that is beyond the ledge
when you return, and use the
midair jump to avoid taking
damage. Go through the door that
is there. Run straight past the
door, and you will spot the
Stronghold Portal. Walk into it
to teleport to the final boss of
the Vesper Defense Post.

--------------
Boss: Slench 4
--------------

Surprisingly, the fourth Slench
battle is actually easier than
the first. Sure, there are some
new attacks, but overall it
moves slower and is easier to
detach from the wall, er,
ceiling. Yes, Slench has moved
up to the ceiling for this
fight; however, that is a good
thing. First, scan Slench's
first form. [367] Then, equip
the Magmaul and start heading
towards Slench. Use the Magmaul
to shoot the three blue
tentacles that connect Slench to
the wall. Each tentacle takes
three hits to eliminate. It is
much easier to defeat the
tentacles this time because you
can strafe around in a circular
pattern underneath Slench, thus
continuously moving to avoid the
green torpedoes and ice beams it
shoots.

When it has disconnected from
the wall, Slench will fall to
the ground, close up, and start
rolling around. This is supposed
to be an attack, but if you
stand against the door leading
into the room then Slench will
never ever reach you, making
this portion of the fight more
tedious than anything. Scan
Slench while it is on the ground
so you have its alternate form
in your logbook. [368] By
standing against the wall as
soon as it detaches, you can
remain safe and eliminate any
stray torpedoes that are still
around.

After a while, Slench will start
flying around like it usually
does. Keep your Magmaul equipped
and send as many attacks into
Slench's eye as you can. Since
it moves relatively slow, this
will be a much easier task than
it was in the third Slench
battle. However, this time it
also constantly shoots a barrage
of ice beams, which you will
need to avoid.

Like it did in the last battle,
Slench will sometimes close up
and ram you. While it is
possible to change into the
Morph Ball and boost out of the
way, that is impractical for
this fight. After all, that
takes precious time after the
ram to resume biped form and aim
yet again at Slench. Because it
is so easy to regain health in
this battle, just accept the ram
and continue shooting as much as
you can. Eventually, Slench will
return to the ceiling and you
will have to repeat the same
process over again.

If you ever need health, stand
with your back against the door
and use your power beam to shoot
the green torpedoes that Slench
releases while connected to the
ceiling. Many of them have
health or ammo, and you can draw
the powerups to you by charging
up your beam. Unlike the third
battle, the shots (ice beams)
from the Energy Blasters can
reach you this time, so you will
need to do some strafing. Once
you have enough energy to
continue, switch back to the
Magmaul and shoot out the
tentacles again.

As in all Slench duels, it has
three phases of battle that it
will enter depending on how much
health it has left. When you
lower its health it will move to
future phases. However, this
time all the later phases do is
cause Slench to roll along a lot
longer and move a little faster.
This is no problem since you can
stand next to the door to avoid
getting hit while it rolls, and
with a little skill you can make
up for the faster speed. Steady
your course until you defeat
Slench, at which time you will
receive the final Octolith and a
few health powerups to aid your
escape.

"Alinos holds the key to
Ultimate Power..."

--------------------------------
Escape from Vesper Defense Post:
Visit 2 Time: 3 Minutes
--------------------------------

This should be the last time you
have to make a quick escape,
which is nice to think about.
But for now, your focus should
be on the task at hand. Run
through the Stronghold Portal to
start. When you go through it,
travel straight through the
curved corridor that is to the
left, and continue through the
corridor that leads downward
after you have gone through it.

At the end of that corridor is
the room where the frozen
Guardians were before they
escaped. It is quite possible
that a bounty hunter will lurk
in this area, so ready your
missiles in the case of a duel.
Once any bounty hunter is dead,
head through the room where the
frozen Guardians were and travel
through the door that is at the
end of room.

It leads to the main part of the
complex. Run straight past the
moving platform in the room that
you enter, and continue on to
the area where the Psycho Bits
are. You have no time to fight
them, so just head to the right
and run through the doorway that
is there. If, however, a bounty
hunter shows up, you will need
to do some serious strafing and
shooting to eliminate them so
that you can continue.

Beyond the doorway is a hallway.
Go to the left up the hallway,
and travel until you reach the
end of it. You will find a door.
Travel through that door and the
few doors that are after it
until you reach the place where
your ship is stationed. Run up
onto the landing pad and jump
onto the ship; at that point you
will be safe and you will be
able to leave the Vesper Defense
Post.

[351] Dead Guardians
[352] Seal Sphere 03
[353] Seal Sphere 04
[354] Oubliette 02
[355] Oubliette 03
[356] Oubliette 04
[357] Oubliette 05
[358] Oubliette 06
[359] Oubliette 07
[360] Silo Levitator
[361] Alimbic War 08
[362] Cooling Vent
[363] Methane Pipeline
[364] Seal Sphere 02
[365] Alimbic Order 05
[366] Cryogenic Storage
[367] Slench 4a
[368] Slench 4b

==================
J. Alinos: Visit 3
==================

Do not worry; this is not an
entirely new mission. You just
have to stop in somewhere and
deposit your Octoliths so you
can have some Ultimate Power.
That is, if you have all eight
Octoliths. If one of the hunters
has an Octolith, then you will
have find out where he is by
looking at the planets from the
comfort of you ship. When you
locate where a hunter is, travel
to that planet and search until
you find him so you can recover
the Octolith.

Once you land on Alinos, go
through the portal to the left.
It leads to the area where you
first fought Spire o so long
ago. In that area, you may
encounter a bounty hunter. If
you do, use your healthy missile
supply to take him out so that
you may continue. Or if you want
to, stand atop the ledge you
begin on and use the Imperialist
to snipe the rival bounty hunter
to death. When you are ready to
advance, go up the ramp on the
opposite side of the room from
the door you entered from. Next
to the place where you found an
Artifact during your first
visit, you will locate the
entryway that used to be covered
by a Purple Force Field. Go
through that now open entryway.
In the hallway after it, you
will find a door that you should
travel through.

Through that door, you will come
to Combat Hall, a small training
area that the Alimbics used. It
is very likely that you will
meet a bounty hunter and a
Guardian here, so choose your
best weapon to fight them. Once
they are dead, you will be able
to proceed through the door on
the other side of the room.

Before you go through it,
though, there are some scans for
you to get. With your scan
visor, you will be able to see a
hologram that is next to the
door you came through. [401]
After you have that, drop of the
ledge and you will find a skinny
wall sticking out of the ground
to scan. [402] On the opposite
side of the room, high in the
air, you will find another wall
that looks similar to the one
you just scanned. However, it is
different so you will need to
scan it as well. [403] Then, in
the tunnel next to the door you
need to journey through, you
will see another hologram if you
have your scan visor on. [404]

Now, go through the door and
travel through the white light
that is after it. It goes to a
large dome shaped room. In the
middle of the room is a white
circle for you to stand on.
Instead of going straight to it,
however, put on your scan visor
and scan the four holograms that
exist in the room. [405] [406]
[407] [408] Then, stand on the
white circle. You will be
allowed the fire the Omega
Cannon, thus opening a void in
the galaxy where Oubliette lies.

"Severe timefield disruption
detected in the vicinity of the
Alimbic Cluster."

After you do that, backtrack
through the level to get back to
your ship. You will most likely
fight another bounty hunter or
Guardian in Combat Hall, and
beyond Combat Hall head right
through the hallway until you
come outside, where you might
face another bounty hunter or a
Guardian. From there, you will
be able to jump up the platforms
until you reach the top ledge of
the outside area. Through the
door on that ledge is the portal
that leads back to your ship.

[401] Alimbic Pride 05
[402] Blast Shield
[403] Sniper Shield
[404] Combat Hall
[405] Alimbic Cannon 01
[406] Alimbic Cannon 02
[407] Alimbic Cannon 03
[408] Alimbic Cannon 04

============
K. Oubliette
============

Finally, you have reached the
last area in the Tetra Galaxy.
It is here where Gorea waits,
that terrible monster that
destroyed the entire Alimbic
civilization. They gave their
lives to seal Gorea away so the
rest of the galaxy would not be
harmed by it; you must now
eliminate Gorea once and for
all!

When you exit your ship, you
will have a straight path
through some doors on onto an
elevator. Once you are on the
elevator, ride it up. At the
top, you will find a portal,
which you should promptly go
through. In the room you are
teleported to, you will find
five holograms to scan if you
have your scan visor on. Scan
all of the holograms, and then
proceed through the door. [451]
[452] [453] [454] [455]

The area you enter will be a
desolate and long stretch of
landscape. Before you venture
far, turn to the right and you
will find a hole for the Morph
Ball. Roll all the way through
it (it goes a long distance),
and when you come to a ledge
then switch to biped form. (If
you accidentally go off the
edge, you will land back in the
desolate area. Head back to the
Morph Ball hole and try again.)
Near the ledge, you will find a
platform with a portal on it. Go
through the portal and you will
find an Energy Tank; (e7) after
that head back and drop down the
desolate area.

Continue on through the area,
and it will lead you to a large
tunnel with a Stronghold Door at
the end of it. Blast your way
through the Stronghold Door, and
you will step into a large dome.
In the middle of that dome is a
white circle, which you should
walk onto.

-----------
Boss: Gorea
-----------

Once you do that, a humorous
cutscene will show an excellent
demonstrating on teamwork. I
will not spoil the cutscene, but
let's just say it introduce the
boss, Gorea. When you are given
control again, you will be
locked inside a large room with
the beast. The ground is flat,
but there is an electric force
field circle encompassing a
patch of ground in the center.
If you step on the circle, it
will cause you serious harm, so
avoid it.

Also on the walls of the room
are several colored triangles.
If you shoot these in a certain
order, you will be able to face
another form of Gorea after you
defeat the first form, which
will earn you special movies and
a different ending. So, start by
running around the room and
shooting all of the triangles in
a specific order. If you shoot
one out of order or with the
wrong weapon, you will have to
start over again. A triangle
will spin and light up more if
you hit it correctly, telling
you to move onto the next one.

1. Yellow: Volt Driver
2. Green: Battlehammer
3. Orange: Magmaul
4. Blue: Shock Coil
5. Violet: Judicator
6. Red: Imperialist

"Translating telepathic
intercept: 'Spectral sequence
initiated. Photon avalanche
approaching cascade threshold.'"

Now that you have activated all
the triangles, the above message
will appear and you will be free
to fight Gorea. Start by
scanning Gorea, [456] and then
scan one of its arms. [457]
Then, scan one of the black
objects hovering above the
ground near the outside wall.
[458]

To fight Gorea, stay by the
outside wall. Gorea has a
predetermined sequence of
weapons that it will use against
you, starting with the
Battlehammer, then the Volt
Driver, then the Magmaul, then
the Judicator, then the
Imperialist, and then the Shock
Coil. After it finishes using a
specific weapon you will be able
to harm its arms using that
weapon while he undergoes a
change to the next weapon.

But, since it strong, you will
want to stick with the
Imperialist to fight Gorea For
now, strafe along the outside of
the room as Gorea shoots various
weapons at you. If you ever need
health or ammo, shoot the black
Trocras suspended in the air, as
they usually have powerups.
However, do not run into the
Trocras or you will take damage;
stay against the wall.

When Gorea equips the
Imperialist, you know your time
is near. Wait for it to shoot
four times at you (keep strafing
to avoid getting hit), and then
zoom in with the Imperialist.
You will see a yellow circle on
each of its shoulders. Quickly
shoot one of the yellow circles
and its arm will fall off; Gorea
will be temporarily stunned and
you should have enough time to
shoot the yellow circle on its
other arm as well, destroy it.
If you fail to succeed at
dismembering both arms, Gorea
will switch to its super
powerful version of the Shock
Coil, which can reach you from a
great distance. Use the Morph
Ball and boost away until Gorea
switches to another weapon, and
then resume strafing and try the
whole thing over again.

After both its arms are gone,
jump to the center area where
Gorea is, being certain not to
hit the dangerous force field
that separates it from the outer
ring. More often than not the
destruction of one of Gorea's
arms will produce a large
energy. If it does, change to
your power beam to draw it to
you. Once you have it, change
back to the Imperialist.

A yellow sphere will be above
Gorea, which you should rapidly
scan. [459] After it, scan Gorea
again because it will register
differently in the logbook the
second time. [460] Shoot the
sphere as quickly as you can
with the Imperialist, but you
will not need to zoom in to hit
it. First it will have an arm
with a spike come out of it, and
you will need to strafe and jump
some to avoid getting impaled by
the spike. Gorea will then grab
the Trocras from around the room
and slowly throw them at you.
Since the damage from them is
not that great, just stay where
you are and keep pounding away
at it. If you can shoot the
sphere and avoid the shots at
the same time, go for it. When
the spike arm comes out again,
though, avoid it.

Soon Gorea will return to normal
and the whole process will
repeat itself, and you should
return to the outer edge of the
area. Keep steady, and soon
Gorea will be defeated. If you
failed to shoot all the
triangles in order, then this
will be the end of the game. It
is fairly boring. If, however,
you did shoot all the triangles
in order, you will be
transported to another area
where you will be able to fight
Gorea 2.

-------------
Boss: Gorea 2
-------------

The second Gorea will fly high
into the air, and you will have
to fight it. First, do a quick
scan on this second from. [461]
Then, drop of one of the side of
the arena. When you near the
ground, do a midair jump to keep
from taking damage. Run to the
center of the area, and you will
discover an Artifact Shield. As
you near it, it will disappear,
revealing the weapon inside of
it. Scan and then grab the
weapon, [462] which is the Omega
Cannon. With such power, you
will be able to harm Gorea, even
in his more powerful form.

Equip the Omega Cannon and
prepare for the battle of your
life. Gorea 2 will randomly
teleport throughout the area and
attack you, causing lots of
damage. You need to strafe and
jump away from the attacks
(which is difficult because
Gorea will teleport you and
attack), and when you have an
opportunity you need to shoot
Gorea 2 with the Omega Cannon.
It shoots very slowly, so you
have to make every shot count.
As soon as Gorea appears after
teleporting, try to shoot it.
That will prevent Gorea from
attacking, and it will cause
Gorea some damage. The more you
can shoot Gorea before it
attacks, the better off you will
be. Besides shooting lasers,
sometimes Gorea will also toss
boulders, so you need to always
keep your eyes open.

Continue fighting, trying to
weaken Gorea unto death. If you
start feeling weak yourself, use
the jump pads that are scattered
around to travels upwards, where
you will occasionally find major
health powerups. Also, if Gorea
ever is gone for a long period
of time, use the jump pads to
return to the top of the area,
where Gorea will probably be
waiting. The key to this level
is persistence, as you need to
consistently dodge attacks and
shoot Gorea. With practice and
patience, you will be able to
slaughter this final foe.

After defeating the boss, you
will be able to watch some cool
movies. However, if you did not
beat Gorea without shooting the
triangles, then you will need to
go back and do that in order to
be able to view the rest of the
movies. When you beat Gorea 2,
you will earn cool stuff like an
icon next to your emblems, a
records area, and a sound test
area. Some of these you will
earn by simply beating Gorea
without beating Gorea 2, but
some are only obtained by the
special ending.

Thanks for playing!

[451] Sealing Gorea 01
[452] Sealing Gorea 02
[453] Sealing Gorea 03
[454] Sealing Gorea 04
[455] Sealing Gorea 05
[456] Gorea
[457] Gorea Arm
[458] Trocra
[459] Gorea Seal Sphere
[460] Gorea
[461] Gorea 2
[462] Omega Cannon

*=*=*=*=*=*
7. Logbook
*=*=*=*=*=*

If you want to complete the game
100%, you are going to need all
of the scans. However, finding
that one last scan can be
tricky, especially in a
walkthrough of this size. That
is why I organized this Logbook;
it will tell you exactly where
each and every scan is.

The scans are listed
alphabetically, in the same
order they appear in the
logbook. If you are missing a
scan, simply look at the scan
above it to see what it is. For
example, if you are missing the
scan under Alimbic Cannon 04,
you could come to this logbook
and look to see what scan is
beneath that. You would see that
you are missing Alimbic
Datashade 01.

Now, the beauty of this Logbook
is the number system, which will
take you exactly where you want
to go. Since you figured out you
need to scan Alimbic Datashade
01, look to the left of it and
you will see its number is [53].
Hold Control and F down at the
same time, and the search
feature will appear. Type in
[53] into the search area, and
then click find. It will send
you directly to the place in the
guide where that scan is,
allowing you to easily find out
where it is and how to get it.

====
Lore
====

[405] Alimbic Cannon 01

The Alimbic Cannon issues bursts
of polarized antimatter beyond
light speed at specified
coordinates and frequency to
open a dimensional rift known as
the Infinity Void.

[406] Alimbic Cannon 02

This device opened the Infinity
Void to imprison Gorea.
Reuniting eight Octoliths will
return power to this dormant
machine.

[407] Alimbic Cannon 03

After trapping Gorea in the Seal
Sphere, we consigned it to a
prison from which there could be
no escape.

[408] Alimbic Cannon 04

The Alimbic Cannon enabled us to
open the Infinity Void and hide
Gorea's prison within it. By
locating the prison in an
alternate dimension, we ensured
that the prisoner would neither
escape nor be released by
accident.

[53] Alimbic Datashade 01

Datashades are packets of
telepathic data scattered
throughout the Tetra Galaxy.
They can be accessed by most
galactic-standard scan systems.

[54] Alimbic Datashade 02

Designed to maintain data
integrity indefinitely,
datashades are highly resistant
to tampering and decay. Scanning
these packets will allow you
access to our scriptures and
Lore.

[215] Alimbic Order 01

There were Eight Elders in the
Alimbic Order.

[213] Alimbic Order 02

You will not find all Eight of
the Octoliths. They have been
scattered, hidden in Four of our
most heavily defended
territories.

[212] Alimbic Order 03

There are never more than Two
Octoliths hidden on any planet
or space station.

[211] Alimbic Order 04

Within each Octolith is a
spirit, the transferred Essence
of an Alimbic Elder.

[365] Alimbic Order 05

Reunite all Eight Octoliths in
the Cannon Control Room to open
the doorway to Gorea.

[165] Alimbic Pride 01

We continued research to improve
our defense systems. Eventually
we became so proficient in the
art of war that we believed
ourselves invincible.

[275] Alimbic Pride 02

Our pride was a veil over our
eyes. We did not see the danger
until it was upon us.

[269] Alimbic Pride 03

Ruin came quickly as the cancer
swept like fire across our
worlds.

[273] Alimbic Pride 04

Those who survived appeared
lifeless and hollow, as if their
very spirit had been sucked dry.

[401] Alimbic Pride 05

We should have been more
vigilant. We became complacent
in our technical prowess and
thought ourselves unassailable.

[3] Alimbic Prophecy 01

It is written that the Alimbic
power shall materialize when six
frequencies shimmer in the
divine spectral sequence.

[56] Alimbic Prophecy 02

In the beginning shall the
darkness be torn asunder by a
flash of Yellow Lightning.

[102] Alimbic Prophecy 03

Yellow Lightning shall strike
with demonic fury upon the
Greenwood.

[152] Alimbic Prophecy 04

With of voice of thunder shall
the Greenwood burst into an
Orange Blaze.

[205] Alimbic Prophecy 05

The Orange Blaze shall die away
to be reborn on wings of Blue
Smoke.

[253] Alimbic Prophecy 06

Tendrils of Blue Smoke shall
weave the geometry of Violet
Crystal.

[127] Alimbic Prophecy 07

Violet Crystal shall shatter the
heavens, leaving in its wake a
Red Stain.

[307] Alimbic Prophecy 08

When the Red Stain shall vanish,
so shall the ancient Alimbic
power be manifest.

[308] Alimbic War 01

The war lasted three standard
galactic months. Even with the
galaxy's most powerful
technology at our disposal, we
fell like dry grass beneath the
blade.

[255] Alimbic War 02

Without warning, our doom fell
from the sky. From whence it
came we do not know.

[270] Alimbic War 03

Gorea was immune to even our
most sophisticated weaponry,
while we were defenseless
against its relentless attacks.

[315] Alimbic War 04

Gorea devoured our people's life
energy and grew powerful from
it. Death swept across our
worlds, and we despaired.

[317] Alimbic War 05

We feared not only the
extinction of our race, but the
possibility that the evil would
sweep the galaxy, annihilating
all in its path.

[310] Alimbic War 06

Gorea is a cancerous bloom that
would wreak havoc across the
universe.

[272] Alimbic War 07

We knew that if we did not stop
Gorea, it would rampage across
the galaxy, devouring everything
in its path.

[361] Alimbic War 08

We finally contained Gorea, but
we paid a heavy price to do so.
May our sacrifice bring peace to
the galaxy.

[302] Alimbic War 09

Eight of our elders gathered to
create the Alimbic Order to
prevent Gorea from destroying
our civilization. Their final,
desperate plan was to create the
Seal Sphere.

[117] Alimbic War 10

If you are reading this message,
our plan to contain Gorea was a
success. Honor our sacrifice and
do not seek this thing. Only
harm can come from such a
course.

[316] Alimbic War 11

To contain Gorea, our people
reduced themselves to pure
telepathic energy through the
process of Essence Transference.

[312] Alimbic War 12

We gave our lives to confine the
foul monstrosity known as Gorea.
Do not seek this creature unless
you have the means to Destroy
it.

[70] Battle Sarcophagus

This tomb contains the remains
of Alimbic General Almiiak, who
led the Alimbic people to
victory in the Tetra Border Wars
two thousand years ago. He later
formed the Alimbic Order of
Elders.

[44] Biodefense Chamber A

This room serves not only as a
home to our most sacred
treasure, but also as a moral
terminus for those who would
trespass.

[73] Biodefense Chamber B

Those who dare trespass upon our
sacred chambers may expect to
pay dearly for that which they
would see.

[404] Combat Hall

We used this room for combat
training of Alimbic military
recruits. In this room were
forged some of our greatest
heroes.

[214] Final Wish

Do not underestimate the danger
concealed herein. We have
sacrificed our world to confine
the monstrosity known as Gorea.
Do not seek this thing unless
you have the means to destroy
it.

[256] Gorea 01

The horror shrieked its name:
Gorea

[257] Gorea 02

Gorea is power beyond reckoning
and evil unrelenting. The
universe has not known terror
such as this.

[313] Gorea 03

At first we thought Gorea was a
comet. It crashed upon our
planet and emerged as a vapor.

[311] Gorea 04

Gorea mimicked our cellular
structure and replicated itself
in solid form.

[271] Gorea 05

We have seen Gorea alter its
atomic structure from a vapor to
a solid. Our scientists believe
Gorea may also posses other
Shape-Changing abilities.

[225] Gorea 06

Gorea is capable of changing its
shape, and it uses a wide
variety of lethal weaponry.

[226] Gorea 07

Our defenses were useless
against Gorea as it swept
through our empire in an orgy of
annihilation.

[227] Gorea 08

Alimbic soldiers were powerless
before Gorea's onslaught.

[228] Gorea 09

We deployed our deadliest
weapons to defeat the beast. To
our horror, every weapon was
somehow used against us by
Gorea.

[59] History 01

These are our last recorded
messages. We depart from this
place of death. If you honor our
memory, do not attempt to solve
the mystery of our
disappearance.

[252] History 02

We overcame our harsh genesis
through intellect and resolve.
The Alimbic mind is bound by a
will of iron.

[123] History 03

The peace of ancient Alimbic
tribal culture was shattered by
a deadly extraterrestrial
invasion. The survivors vowed
never again to be caught
unprepared.

[124] History 04

We focused our resources on
military science and quickly
developed weapons and defenses
that surpassed the technology of
our enemies.

[115] History 05

We were a peaceful people. But
we defended our homeworld with a
fierce determination.

[116] History 06

To defend our territories from
extraterrestrial attack, we
deployed lethal bioweaponry.

[114] History 07

Our protective exoskeletons
enabled us to survive the
environmental extremes of the
Alimbic homeworlds.

[121] History 08

Our enlarged forebrains
facilitated enhanced cognitive
function. It was our ability to
think quickly that saved us from
early and violent extinction.

[173] History 09

For generations our superior
military capability deterred all
enemies. A renewed sense of
peace allowed us to return to
our natural philosophical
pursuits.

[174] History 10

Through science and technology
we increased our already
formidable mental skills.
Significant advances were made
in the areas of Telepathy,
Telekinesis, and
Extradimensional Exploration.

[175] History 11

We continued to bolster our
defense against possible future
invasion. Our military
technology grew increasingly
sophisticated and lethal.

[63] Interment Chamber

Alimbic warriors of valor are
here laid to rest, that their
spirits may return to the
planetary core.

[122] Octolith Safeguard

Beware our guardians. These
deadly sentinels travel in packs
and are programmed to protect
that which is dead to us.

[306] Oubliette 01

The monster cannot be defeated.
As a last resort, we created the
Seal Sphere to cage the horror
for all eternity.

[354] Oubliette 02

Eight Octoliths are required to
power the Alimbic Cannon. Each
Octolith contains unique
coordinates, frequencies, and
codes necessary to operate the
cannon.

[355] Oubliette 03

The Alimbic Cannon creates a
fissure between this dimension
and the Infinity Void that
houses Gorea's prison, known as
Oubliette.

[356] Oubliette 04

The Oubliette cannot be found in
this galaxy. It is hidden in
another dimension. If you seek
the Seal Sphere, you must first
seek the keys.

[357] Oubliette 05

We have sent the Oubliette
beyond this dimension to ensure
that the galaxy will never again
suffer the horror that is Gorea.

[358] Oubliette 06

Gorea is alone in the Void. For
the sake of all life, it must
remain so.

[359] Oubliette 07

The Infinity Void is a vast
parallel dimension of formless
antimatter.

[120] Oubliette 08

Only the Alimbic Cannon can
access the Infinity Void

[72] Science Sarcophagus

This tomb contains the remains
of the Great Arctherus, whose
discovery of Neurogenesis marked
an advent of the modern Alimbic
era, a time of unprecedented
peace and prosperity.

[303] Seal Sphere 01

The fathomless power of the
captive beast is the very engine
of the Seal Sphere.

[364] Seal Sphere 02

Gorea is immobilized within the
Seal Sphere, just one of many
precautions taken to ensure its
eternal captivity.

[352] Seal Sphere 03

The Alimbic Order directed
surviving citizens to transfer
their essences into the Seal
Sphere. Our combined psychic
energy is the engine that powers
the sphere.

[353] Seal Sphere 04

The Seal Sphere is secure within
the Oubliette, from which there
is no escape.

[451] Sealing Gorea 01

No weapon could defeat Gorea.

[452] Sealing Gorea 02

As the death toll rose, we
crafted a plan. Rather than
destroy Gorea, we would contain
it in an interdimensional
prison.

[453] Sealing Gorea 03

We lured Gorea into our trap.
The Seal Sphere was deployed and
the creature ensnared. With
Gorea bound, we had to act
quickly.

[454] Sealing Gorea 04

We transported Gorea to its
prison, the Oubliette. Trapping
Gorea was not enough, however.
Additional security measures
were needed for so great a
threat.

[455] Sealing Gorea 05

We forced open an alternate
dimension with the Alimbic
Cannon, and the Oubliette was
sent into it. The Infinity Void
was sealed shut, never to be
reopened.

[41] Stronghold Void

This hidden room, accessible
only be extraordinary means,
houses our most relics. It is
guarded by our most formidable
cybernetic security systems.
Only by activating a Portal
controlled by a trio of
Artifacts can one gain access to
this secret location.

========
Bioforms
========

[35] Alimbic Turret v1.0

A mounted gun equipped with
infrared motion detection and
DNA-identification technology.
This weapon will fire on any
non-Alimbic creature within its
range.

[109] Alimbic Turret v1.4

This modified turret is capable
of rapid-fire operation with
little or no overheating.

[318] Alimbic Turret v2.7

A late model Alimbic Turret with
improved targeting capability.

[304] Arctic Spawn

Native to frozen habitats, this
creature depends on low
temperatures to survive. The
Arctic Spawn is territorial in
the extreme and will attack any
perceived threat by hurling
immobilizing shards of razor-
sharp ice.

[164] Barbed War Wasp

An aggressively territorial
insect capable of launching its
stinger as a projectile. The
more dangerous cousin of the War
Wasp, Barbed War Wasps migrate
in large swarms, attacking even
the largest life-forms in
isolated region of Tallon IV.

[66] Blastcap

A large mushroom that explodes
on contact, emitting noxious
gas. Originating on Tallon IV,
its spores can survive without
atmosphere and have propagated
throughout the galaxy on solar
winds.

[166] Blue Barbed War Wasp

A mutated form of the Red Barbed
War Wasp. The metabolism of the
Blue Barbed War Wasp requires a
frozen environment to produce
endothermic projectiles.

[125] Crash Pillar

Highly pleasing to Alimbic
aesthetics, this sentry cyborg
is dormant until it senses an
intruder, and returns to a
dormant state once the threat
retreats. The Crash Pillar
levitates by means of
antigravity propulsion before
attempting to smash its quarry.
Vulnerable neurocircuitry is
housed underneath the base.

[43] Cretaphid v1

Utilizing the most sophisticated
Alimbic cybernetics, this
massive cylindrical defense
mechanism features precision
chemical lasers. The Cretaphid
is a key component of Alimbic
military defense technology,
designed to safeguard the
Alimbic's most sacred objects.

[132] Cretaphid v2

This modified version of the
Cretaphid cybernetic defense
mechanism features bursts of
heat-seeking plasma. A key
component of Alimbic military
defense technology, designed to
safeguard the Alimbic's most
sacred objects.

[279] Cretaphid v3

Combining the features of its
predecessors, this version of
the cybernetic Cretaphid tower
features both precision chemical
lasers and bursts of head-
seeking plasma. A central
component of Alimbic military
defense technology, designed to
safeguard the Alimbic's most
sacred objects.

[319] Cretaphid v4

The apex of the Cretaphid line
of cybernetic defenses, this
ultimate model deploys lethal
lasers and homing plasma from a
mobile tower whose very casing
is an offensive weapon. A key
component of Alimbic military
defense technology, it was
designed to succeed where all
others fail.

[69] Dialanche

Spire's alternate form is the
Dialanche, a hypercondensed
ferrous ore able to roll at high
speeds. The Dialanche is
equipped with two retractable
titanium limbs used to batter
adversaries.

[218] Electro Voldrum

This version of the Voldrum has
a weaker hull than the standard
model, rendering it vulnerable
to rapid-fire weaponry.

[75] Energy Blaster

Turrets on the walls of the
chamber fire blasts of plasma
generated by the Slench.

[262] Fire Spawn

A large creature that thrives on
extreme heat, the Fire Spawn
breathes superheated lava and
never ventures far from its home
pit. This creature is
particularly unfriendly to
carbon-based life-forms, and
will hurl fireballs at anything
approaching its territory.

[153] Geemer

A small but dangerous creature
that exposes sharp spikes on its
back when threatened. This
scavenger is known to forage
through human refuse and is an
infamous pest on Zebes.

[456] Gorea

Superficial scan indicates
Gorea's body is impervious to
attack.

[460] Gorea

Sensors unable to locate the
upper-arm vulnerability present
in Gorea's prior form.

[461] Gorea 2

Gorea's final form is impervious
to all weapons currently
equipped in the Power Suit.
Alternative weaponry is required
to penetrate Gorea's armor.
Sensors detect that Alimbic
essence is no longer present in
the Seal Sphere. Gorea remains
attached to the sphere in order
to draw all remaining energy
from it.

[457] Gorea Arm

Analysis indicates the presence
of fragile biomorphic neurons in
Gorea's shoulders, periodically
vulnerable to specific energy
types.

[459] Gorea Seal Sphere

Harmonic analysis of the central
sphere suggests that it is
susceptible to direct attack.

[229] Greater Ithrak

The impenetrable hide on this
cousin of the Lesser Ithrak
makes it a formidable threat.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that
frontal assault is ineffective
against this aggressive
predator.

[46] Guardian

Specifically designed to guard
the Alimbic Order, these
automatons are now programmed to
serve in its absence. These
intelligent androids often
travel in packs, attacking with
energy projectiles produced by
three small fusion generators
located in the cranium.

[78] Halfturret

Cybernetic enhancements allow
Weavel's body to detach from its
mechanical lower half and
convert into the Halfturret alt-
form. The arms provide
locomotion for the upper body,
while the legs are equipped with
powerful projectile weaponry.

[274] Ice Voldrum

A late advance in Voldrum
technology featuring freezing
projectiles. Its pulse-tube
cryocoolers are extremely
susceptible to high temperature
impact.

[32] Kanden

A disruptive electromagnetic
field appears to surround the
hunter Kanden. Analysis suggests
voltage potential comparable to
that found in lightning storms.
Kanden carries the Volt Driver,
which is capable of a charged
blast that can disrupt the
Combat Visor.

[24] Lesser Ithrak

This nocturnal creature clings
to the ceiling and is
exceptionally fierce when
disturbed.

[129] Lockjaw

Sylux's alternative form, the
Lockjaw, may consist of stolen
prototype Federation technology.
It allows the user to transform
into two tetracarbon ceramic-
alloy blades joined by an energy
thread. Its principal method of
attack is to weave a network of
explosive rip wires.

[266] Magma Voldrum

Another modification of Voldrum
technology. Its high operating
temperature causes reduced
defensive capability against
subzero weaponry.

[157] Noxus

Analysis indicates that the skin
of this hunter has extraordinary
insulating properties. Noxus's
weapon is the Judicator, capable
of a charge shot that can freeze
an opponent in its tracks.

[14] Petrasyl

Harmless from a distance, this
airborne creature secretes a
corrosive toxin that can burn
through all but the toughest
materials on contact.

[10] Psycho Bit v1.0

A levitating spherical sentry
droid equipped with 360-degree
sensors and a low-level
teleportation device. The basic
silver model fire an energy
blast, whereas the advanced
green model features a Heavy-
Duty gun powered by a nanoscale
nuclear reactor.

[207] Psycho Bit v2.0

A levitating spherical sentry
droid equipped with 360-degree
sensors and a low-level
teleportation device. This model
uses a High-Voltage
electromagnetic pulse to drain
energy from its target.

[259] Psycho Bit v3.0

Similar in design to earlier
models, this version fires
Superheated Magma at its target.

[118] Psycho Bit v4.0

Cryogenic nanite technology
enables this advanced sentry
droid to freeze its prey with
Supercooled Plasma.

[224] Quadtroid

Genetically engineered from
leech and reptile DNA, this
creature can crawl on almost any
surface. The Quadtroid seeks
sources of biological energy.
The use of a Morph Ball Bomb is
the only method to break free of
its grasp.

[254] Red Barbed War Wasp

One of the most aggressive
varieties of wasp, the Red
Barbed War Wasp uses body heat
to generate an igneous
projectile.

[155] Shriekbat

A winged creature that explodes
on contact to defend its
territory, it will attack any
creature approaching its nesting
grounds. Inhabitants of Tallon
IV have called for its
extermination because of the
threat it poses to the
infrastructure and cultural
heritage of the planet.

[74] Slench 1a

Another member of the Alimbic
defensive arsenal, this enormous
cybernetic eyeball was
engineered to protect sacred
Alimbic relics. The Slench
attaches itself to the
biodefense chamber with three
synapses which transfer power to
Energy Blasters. Its primary
weapons are the green venom
torpedo and the deuterium laser.

[76] Slench 1b

When aggravated, the Slench
detaches from the wall to
commence a hovering attack.
Analysis indicates its shield is
inoperable during this
levitation.

[176] Slench 2a

This revision of Alimbic cyber-
defense technology features
enhanced capabilities. The
Slench attaches itself to the
biodefense chamber with three
synapses which transfer
Superheated Magma to the Energy
Blasters. Green venom torpedoes
can be neutralized with the Arm
Cannon.

[177] Slench 2b

When aggravated, the Slench
detaches from the wall to fire
bursts of superheated magma
while hovering. Analysis
indicates its shield is
inoperable during levitation.

[231] Slench 3a

This improved model of the
Slench utilizes three synapses
to transfer High Voltage to the
Energy Blasters, whose
electromagnetic pulse can
disrupt the Combat Visor. The
synaptic fibers may be
vulnerable to Heavy-Duty
weaponry.

[232] Slench 3b

Analysis indicates that although
the shield is down, the improved
exoskeleton on this model may
allow it to charge at its prey.

[367] Slench 4a

The pinnacle of Slench
technology, this model employs
three synapses to transfer
Supercooled Plasma to the Energy
Blasters. Cryogenic projectiles
can temporarily immobilize the
Power Suit.

[368] Slench 4b

Analysis indicates its shield is
down while hovering, but the
Slench may be impregnable while
rolling. Evasive action is
advised.

[68] Spire

Analysis of this creature's
physiology indicates the
presence of molten ferrous
compounds normally found only in
a planet's core. Spire is armed
with the Magmaul, a weapon that
lobs cohesive bursts of
Superheated Magma.

[33] Stinglarva

Bioengineered with genetic
material from the galaxy's most
dangerous predatory insects,
Kanden can transform into the
Stinglarva. This fast- moving
segmented insect has a
detachable regenerating tail
that homes in on its target
before exploding.

[128] Sylux

This hunter's power suit appears
to be based on a federation
prototype and possesses
extraordinary offensive and
defensive capabilities. Sylux's
weapon is the Shock Coil, a
banned technology that fires
charged blasts of high- density
Neutrinos.

[178] Trace

Scan indicates the exoskeleton
of the hunter may not be as
durable as it appears. This
potential vulnerability may
explain Trace's tactical
preference for sniping. It
weapon of choice, the
Imperialist, is a long-range
quantum cascade laser with
precision targeting.

[179] Triskelion

Trace's alternative form, the
Triskelion, is sophisticated
Kriken military biotechnology
that allows Trace to biomorph
into a three-legged war machine
with a powerful lunge attack. It
also features stealth cloaking,
enabling Trace to become
invisible while immobile.

[458] Trocra

These crystallized colonies of
cyanobacteria are highly
unstable, and will detonate when
they contact a solid surface.
Avoid contact.

[158] Vhoscythe

The Vhoscythe is the alternative
form of the hunter Noxus. An
evolutionary defense mechanism
of the Vhozon species, it serves
both offensive and defensive
purposes.

[67] Voldrum

A high-speed rolling robot in
nearly constant motion. Equipped
with two large guns for
attacking from a distance, it is
equally efficient at close-
quarters combat.

[61] War Wasp

An aggressive flying insect that
will vigorously defend its
territory. The royal jelly of
the War Wasp queen is so highly
valued that hives continue to be
harvested on Aether in spite of
a shocking death toll.

[77] Weavel

Weavel's weapon of choice is the
Battlehammer, a Heavy-Duty
repeating weapon with a lethal
blast radius. Maintain distance
and avoid a direct hit from this
high-caliber weapon.

[58] Zoomer

Best known for breeding rapidly
and carrying diseases, Zoomers
are responsible for the spread
of flesh-eating bacteria on
Zebes, resulting in the
extinction of many native
species.

=======
Objects
=======

[20] Alimbic Artifacts

Artifacts are encoded with
program data unique to the
Stronghold Portal. Three
Artifacts are necessary to
activate the portal.

[154] Alimbic Crest

Each of these ornate crests
celebrates the accomplishments
of a major Alimbic tribe.

[156] Alimbic Emblem

This emblem commemorates fallen
Alimbic heroes.

[258] Alimbic Garden

Scan indicates fossilized
remains of Alimbic plant life.

[169] Alimbic Insignia

A large ceremonial emblem of the
Alimbic Order, celebrating their
victories and leadership, solar-
cycle counter dates its creation
after Alinos first came under
attack.

[28] Alimbic Joist

The design of this joist
suggests highly evolved
conceptual architecture.

[12] Alimbic Panel

Alpha waves emanate from this
architectural structure. It
appears designed to calm the
senses and to create an
environment ideal for
meditation.

[71] Alimbic Scripture

This language cannot be
translated.

[51] Alinos

The once-beautiful planet of
Alinos, home to the Alimbic
Elders, has fallen into
disrepair since the explosion of
the planet's core.

[167] Ammolite Shards

Naturally occurring minerals
with phosphorescent properties.

[31] Anthropological Hub

Access denied. Alimbic
anthropological data bank
severely damaged.

[151] Arcterra

The outermost planet in the
Alimbic Cluster, Arcterra is an
inhospitable wasteland
noteworthy for a honeycomb of
tunnels and caves within its
frozen interior.

[21] Artifact Shield

A security device that protects
the Artifacts. This device can
be unlocked with the proper key.

[34] Attameter Artifact

The Attameter Artifact contains
schematics for atomic mapping,
allowing a portal to disassemble
the molecular structure of
anything within the
teleportation matrix.

[276] Backup Processor

Deconstructed for maintenance,
apparently incomplete.

[39] Binary Subscripture

The Binary Subscripture Artifact
contains the precise frequency
of the Stronghold Portal's
spectral transponder, allowing
anything within the
teleportation matrix to warp
from one point to another.

[402] Blast Shield

Used for projectile weapons
training.

[23] Cartograph Artifact

The Cartograph Artifact is
encoded with the spatial
coordinates of a hidden chamber.

[2] Celestial Archives

This space station, in orbit
directly above Alinos, is the
primary repository of the
combined knowledge of Alimbic
scholars, scientists, and
historians.

[267] Ceremonial Charms

Alimbic ornaments designed to
enhance harmony.

[107] Clone Engine

Severe deterioration of
microcircuitry detected. System
nonfunctional.

[26] Cooling Fans

High-speed fans cool the synergy
reactor. There are signs of
severe deterioration.

[362] Cooling Vent

Nitrogen pumps establish and
maintain a subzero atmosphere
throughout the Vesper Defense
Outpost.

[111] Cortex Chamber

Controls the entire neural
ensemble by processing input
from the thalamic coil

[263] Council Chamber

Assembly hall for Alimbic
Elders. Extreme structural
damage evident.

[366] Cryogenic Storage

Weapon storage contains.
Maintained at subzero
temperatures for stability and
to prevent overheating of
fusion-powered weaponry.

[160] Damaged Bridge

Structure has been severely
compromised by impact. Decay
indicates the damage occurred
several hundred solar cycles
ago.

[131] Delano 7

Sylux's delta-class strike
fighter is believed to be a
stolen federation prototype. Due
to an unresolved design flaw,
the autocannon can be
temporarily disabled by several
direct hits to the ship's hull.

[208] Docking Bay L1

Receiving port for Alimbic
heavy-cargo starfreighters.

[209] Docking Bay L2

Receiving port for Alimbic
medium-range transports.

[210] Docking Bay L3

Receiving port for Alimbic
passenger carriers.

[57] Exposed Rebar

Structural integrity of load-
bearing walls has been
compromised by forcible impact.

[62] Flow Regulator

This station controls the flow
of lava tributaries.

[108] Frozen Fuel Line

Pipes show signs of structural
failure.

[103] Fuel Rod

Powers nearby bioweaponry
chambers.

[130] Gestation Tanks

Reinforced tanks used to grow
nanites for Morphing Ammunition
and Missiles.

[260] Glyph Pattern

Contains unknown characters.
Untranslatable.

[223] Gravity Stabilizer

Scan registers severe damage.

[172] Heating System

Thermal tube designed to
maintain room temperature.
Currently disabled. Scan
indicates interior is frozen
solid.

[170] Ice Bridge

A frozen block carved into an
overhead catwalk. A structure
capable of holding considerable
weight.

[219] Incubation Tank A

Nanobot incubation tank.
Operating at full capacity.

[221] Incubation Tank B

Nanobot incubation tank.
Operating at 67% capacity.

[105] Lab Equipment

Used to grow bioweaponry.
Systems inoperative.

[277] Lava Processor 01

Utilizes orogenic activity for
treatment and processing of
igneous material.

[278] Lava Processor 02

Operating at minimum capacity.

[37] Lift Controls

Control panel for anti-gravity
lifts. System offline.

[201] Literary Hub

Access denied. Alimbic literary
data bank severly damaged.

[52] Magma Station

Sensors operating at 79%. Lava
levels stable.

[65] Magma Vent

Relieves pressure buildup from
the unstable planetary core.

[202] Medical Hub

Access denied. Alimbic medical
data bank severely damaged.

[363] Methane Pipeline

Liquid methane fuel delivery
system.

[106] Mixing Tanks

Used to synthesize poisonous
gases. Trace amount of toxic
materials detected.

[13] Navigational Chart

Holographic directory of the
Tetra Galaxy.

[45] Octolith

Carbon analysis indicates
Octoliths are Alimbic in origin.

[206] Photon Stabilizer

Bridge secured by beam of
tripolarized photons.

[30] Political Hub

Access denied. Alimbic political
data bank severely damaged.

[6] Port Helm

"The Secret To Ultimate Power
Lies In The Alimbic Cluster."
Author and origin unknown.

[19] Science Hub

Access denied. Alimbic
scientific data bank severly
damaged.

[222] Shield Generator

Force shield compromised.

[22] Shield Key

When retrieved, this dynamic
piece of technology will
deactivate the Artifact Shield
in this area.

[360] Silo Levitator

Repository for heavy
interplanetary warheads, held in
place by a continual updraft
from a high-pressure wind
tunnel.

[403] Sniper Shield

Used for precision projectile
training.

[104] Spore Farm

A controlled environment used to
grow toxic spores. The spores
have expired.

[7] Starboard Helm

"The Secret To Ultimate Power
Lies In The Alimbic Cluster."
Binary irregularities indicate
the message was broadcast
telepathically.

[40] Stronghold Portal

Three Artifacts are necessary to
restore functionality.

[268] Structural Debris

Severe architectural damage.
Evidence of unidentifiable
interstellar matter, a result of
an extraterrestrial collision.

[8] Synergy Drive

This device maintains the orbit
and rotation of the space
station. Operation appears
normal.

[5] Synergy Processor

Works in tandem with the synergy
drive to make subtle changes in
the station's orbit and
rotation.

[16] Synergy Strut

Reinforcement pillar for synergy
drive.

[29] Tetra Galaxy

This area was once under Alimbic
control. Ruins detected on
various planets indicate a vast
civilization.

[17] Tetra Trade Map

Schematic of Alimbic
interstellar shipping routes.

[251] Thermal Regulator

Transduces volcanic heat into
useable energy.

[101] VDO

Vesper Defense Outpost is
situated on the outer edge of
Alimbic territory. Serving as a
refueling station and munitions
dump, subzero temperature is
maintained to prevent
overheating of fusion-powered
weapons systems. Structural
failure of fuel containers has
resulted in a vast radioactive
spill into space, leaving toxic
and explosive fuel frozen to the
sides of the structure.

[261] Wall Scroll

This language cannot be
translated.

[171] Witherite Shards

Naturally occurring minerals
with phosphorescent properties.

=========
Equipment
=========

Note: For all of the items in
this area (excluding the Hunter
Gunship), when you collect the
item it will be added to your
logbook whether you scan it or
not. So, if you collect the
Judicator without scanning it,
then it will still be in your
logbook. I have nonetheless
added numbers for most of these
powerups, just so you can locate
the first spot where you can
scan them.

Arm Cannon

An essential part of Samus's
Power Suit, the Arm Cannon is
Upgradeable and adaptable to
other weaponry. To fire the
weapon, press the Fire button.
Switch weapons by tapping the
weapon icons at the top of the
touch screen.

[112] Battlehammer

The Battlehammer is powered by a
miniature nuclear reactor. This
Heavy-Duty repeater is
recommended only for those
familiar with high-caliber
weaponry.

Charge Shot

By holding down and releasing
the Fire button, the Arm Cannon
is able to fire concentrated
charge bursts.

[230] Energy Tank

Increases the Power Suit's
maximum energy storage capacity
by 100 units.

[1] Hunter Gunship

Hunter-Class Gunship registered
to Samus Aran. Return to this
ship to save your progress and
to recover your energy.

[305] Imperialist

Equipped with a Zoom function
ideal for Precision targeting,
the Imperialist fires a thin and
lethal laser beam with high
accuracy over long distances.

[168] Judicator

The Judicator is powered by
cold-fusion synthesis. It fires
Supercooled Plasma at
temperatures approaching
absolute zero.

Jump Boots

An essential part of Samus's
Power Suit. To jump, double-tap
the touch screen or press the
Jump button. These boots can
also be used to jump in midair.

[60] Large Energy

Replenishes 100 units of energy
expended from the Power Suit due
to battle damage. Energy has
also been known to have a
rejuvenating effect on alien
technology and physiology.

Large Missile Pack

Replenishes Missile reserves by
25 Missiles.

[113] Large UA Pack

Replenishes 25 Rounds of
Universal Ammo. Morphing UA
contains munitions
nanotechnology engineered for
instant adaptation to almost any
weapon. Altering caliber and
composition at the molecular
level to match the ballistic
specifications of the host
weapon.

[264] Magmaul

The Magmaul, powered by a
hyperstatic hydrogen core, fire
cohesive projectiles of
Superheated Magma.

[25] Medium Energy

Replenishes 60 Units of energy
expended from the Power Suit due
to battle damage. Energy has
also been known to have a
rejuvenating effect on alien
technology and physiology.

[55] Missile Expansion

Increase the capacity of the Arm
Cannon's arsenal by 10 missiles.

Missile Launcher

Launches explosive-tipped
Missiles that detonate in a
percussive blast. This standard-
issue weapon is extremely
effective in dealing with
biological threats. Hold the
Fire button to charge the weapon
and cause the Missile to seek
heat signatures. Charging will
attract energy and ammo.

Morph Ball

Samus has the ability to
transform into a ball that can
move at high speeds and access
areas her bipedal form cannot.
To enter the alt-form, tap the
icon in the lower corner of the
touch screen. Use the +Control
Pad or A, B, X, and Y buttons to
move the Morph Ball. Use the
touch screen for more precise
control with gentle strokes in
the desired direction. Boost by
quickly stroking in the desired
direction or by pressing the
Boost button.

Morph Ball Bomb

Small bursts of energy detonate
from the Morph Ball shortly
after being triggered. Ideal for
opening secret passages and
eliminating small creatures.
Press the Fire button while in
Morph Ball mode to place the
Bombs. Bomb Jumping possible by
triggering Bombs with proper
timing.

[462] Omega Cannon

This proscribed weapon of mass
destruction was called an
abomination by the Alimbic
Elders because of the harm it
could inflict on anyone
desperate enough to use it.

Power Beam

The standard-issue Power Beam
has limited offensive capability
and unlimited ammunition. As
with all charge weapons, press
and hold the Fire button to
attract energy and ammo, and to
charge up the shot. Release to
fire a powerful blast. This
weapon overheats quickly and
works best when fired in
controlled spurts.

Scan Visor

An essential tool, the Scan
Visor is able to identify most
forms of alien language and
xenobiology. To activate the
Scan Visor, tap and hold the
small button centered at the
bottom of the touch screen. Once
it is activated, press and hold
the fire button to scan an
object. Scroll data by tapping
the left and right arrow. Tap
the Scan Visor button again to
deactivate.

[220] Shock Coil

The Shock Coil is a prototype
federation weapon that emits a
concentrated beam of high-
density Neutrinos within a set
radius.

[11] Small Energy

Replenishes 30 Units of energy
expended from the Power Suit due
to battle damage. Energy has
also been known to have a
rejuvenating effect on alien
technology and physiology.

[15] Small Missile Pack

Replenishes Missile reserves by
10 Missiles.

Small UA Pack

Replenishes 10 Rounds of
Universal Ammo. Morphing UA
contains munitions
nanotechnology engineered for
instant adaptation to almost any
weapon. Altering caliber and
composition at the molecular
level to match the ballistic
specifications of the host
weapon.

Thermal Positioner

Samus's location is tracked by a
Thermal Positioner which relays
an image of Samus and her
surroundings. This valuable
imaging tool also identifies
objects and entities with unique
Power Signatures. Access the
Thermal Positioner by pressing
Start.

[119] UA Expansion

Increases the Universal Ammo
capacity by 30 Units.

[203] Volt Driver

The Volt Driver draws energy
from the planetary
electromagnetic field and
converts it into multi-terawatt
bursts of High Voltage.

*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*
8. Powerup Locations
*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*=*

Missing a UA Expansion, Missile
Expansion, or Energy Tank? Well,
here is the place you can go to
find them. All of the items for
your weapons and health arsenal
are here, along with a short
description of how to obtain
them. If you need more than a
short description, however, use
Control + F to bring up the
search box and then type in the
() and the numbers inside it
that correspond with the item
you are looking for. Then,
select Find to locate it.

============
Energy Tanks
============

(e1) Energy Tank 1 Celestial
Archives: Data Shrine 01

Underneath one of the small
tunnels in the curved corridors,
you will be able to reach the
Energy Tank if you are in Morph
Ball form.

(e2) Energy Tank 2
Alinos: Echo Hall

Inside the Morph Ball labyrinth
where you obtained the first
Shield Key of the planet, there
is one dead-end that holds the
Energy Tank.

(e3) Energy Tank 3
Arcterra: Sic Transit

In the place where you fought
Noxus and Trace, a corridor
encompasses the open portion of
that area. One part of the
corridor has a door leading to a
small room where the Shield Key
was. Further in that room are
metal bars that you can roll
under if you are the Morph Ball.
Roll inside and use power bombs
to jump up to the Energy Tank.

(e4) Energy Tank 4
Arcterra: Frost Labyrinth

The upper right corner of the
entire ice labyrinth holds an
Energy Tank.

(e5) Energy Tank 5 Celestial
Archives Visit 2: New Arrival
Registration

The third and final tall,
cylinder shaped area before the
Stronghold Portal has a base
comprised of several disjointed
ledges, with the middle being
nothingness. On one of the
ledges, you will discover the
fifth Energy Tank.

(e6) Energy Tank 6
Alinos Visit 2: Council Chamber

One of the passageways in the
room once inhabited by the Fire
Spawn is guarded by an Orange
Force Field. Once it has been
eliminated by the Magmaul,
travel through the straight
passageway until you reach a
dead end. An Energy Tank is
there.

(e7) Energy Tank 7
Oubliette

After you go up the elevator and
through the portal, you will
come to a small room with a
door. Through that door and to
the right, you will notice a
Morph Ball tunnel. Go through
until you reach the ledge at the
end of it, and then jump onto
the platform to the right. It
has a portal on it that will
take you to a small room with an
Energy Tank.

==================
Missile Expansions
==================

When you have all of the Missile
Expansions, you should be able
to carry 95 missiles.

(m1) Missile Expansion 1
Celestial Archives: Data Shrine
02

Beyond the Alimbic Joist scan in
one of the curved hallways, you
will reach what seems to be a
dead end. If you switch to the
Morph Ball, you will find that
you can travel through a small
tunnel at that dead end which
leads to yet another dead end.
However, at this dead end you
will find a Missile Expansion.

(m2) Missile Expansion 2
Alinos: Alinos Gateway

Starting from the place where
your ship landed, run straight
until you reach the door.
Instead of going in the door,
turn to the left and go along
the wall. You will find several
boxes leading to an indentation
in the wall; this is where the
second Missile Expansion is
located.

(m3) Missile Expansion 3
Alinos: High Ground

After you fight Spire for the
first time inside the small room
where you earn a Shield Key, he
will head outside and start
firing at you from a small
structure. Go to the place where
he was shooting your from, and a
Missile Expansion will be yours.

(m4) Missile Expansion 4 Vesper
Defense Outpost: Cortex CPU

Go to the area where you must
use the Morph Ball to enter a
side-scrolling maze. Above one
of the ledges in that side-
scrolling maze you will find a
Missile Expansion. To get to it,
use the power bomb double jump.

(m5) Missile Expansion 5
Arcterra: Ice Hive

Next to the first portal, there
are two narrow tunnels. Go down
the one infested with dozens of
dangerous plants. Partway
through you will notice a small
white light on the left side of
the tunnel; you can roll through
it if you are the Morph Ball.
Carefully go through the light
and stay on the ledge until you
reach the Missile Expansion.

(m6) Missile Expansion 6
Celestial Archives Visit 2:
Incubation Vault 03

On the walkway in the Docking
Bay that four moving platforms
connect to, take the one
directly to the right. Go
through the portal that it leads
it. In the room that you enter,
travel through the portal that
is at the far left side of the
room. It leads to a walkway at
the top of an Incubation Vault,
and the Missile Expansion is in
plain sight on that walkway.

(m7) Missile Expansion 7
Alinos Visit 2: Alinos Perch

Head up the ramp in Alinos Perch
until you reach the flat area
where Voldrums attack you.
Continue to the wall until you
come to an orange light that you
can go through. Turn to the left
once you are past the orangish
light, and you will reach a dead
end with the Missile Expansion.

(m8) Missile Expansion 8
Arcterra Visit 2: Subterranean

The circular room beyond the
Drip Moat had a maze of force
fields when you first entered
it, and when you backtracked
through that same room the force
fields disappeared and a horde
of Guardians attacked you. Go
down the lift that is in the
center of that circular room,
and you will reach an
underground tunnel. Walk
straight through the tunnel and
at the end of it you will find a
Missile Expansion.

(m9) Missile Expansion 9 Vesper
Defense Outpost Visit 2: Fuel
Stack

About halfway up the wind tunnel
that experienced an Energy
Overflow the first time you came
to it, you will find an area
that is white in color. Two
paths spiral downward in that
area, so travel downward until
you reach the end of one of the
paths. You should find a Missile
Expansion; if you do not, go
onto the other path that
spiraled downward.

=============
UA Expansions
=============

Once you have collected all
twelve UA Expansions, your
Universal Ammo capacity will be
400.

(UA1) UA Expansion 1 Vesper
Defense Outpost: Compression
Chamber

When the force fields in the
area have all been deactivated,
drop to the lower part of the
Compression Chamber and roll
inside the small box in the
center of one of the rooms.
Inside you will find a UA
Expansion.

(UA2) UA Expansion 2
Arcterra: Ice Hive

On the ice bridge, you will see
a Purple Force Field to your
right. Use the Judicator to
eliminate the force field, and
then jump through the entryway
it was protecting. A UA
Expansion rests just inside.

(UA3) UA Expansion 3
Arcterra: Ice Hive

After you have obtained the
Judicator, you may travel back
to the area with the Vault Door
where you battled the War Wasps.
In that room you will encounter
a Purple Force Field, behind
which a UA Expansion lies.

(UA4) UA Expansion 4 Celestial
Archives Visit 2: Celestial
Gateway

Underneath the landing pad where
your ship is, you will see a
Green Force Field. Go under the
landing pad using your Morph
Ball form, and the switch to
biped form so that you can
destroy the force field using
the Battlehammer. The area that
opens up has a UA Expansion
inside.

(UA5) UA Expansion 5 Celestial
Archives Visit 2: Data Shrine 02

In the room where you acquire
the Volt Driver (you need the
Battlehammer to open the Green
Blast Shields protecting it if
you haven't already done so),
you will find the fifth UA
Expansion sitting on top of the
platform in the center of the
room.

(UA6) UA Expansion 6 Celestial
Archives Visit 2: Transfer Lock

Upon entering the Transfer Lock
via the portal, drop down from
the walkway with the portal to
the lowest part of a small room.
Off to one side of the room is
the UA Expansion.

(UA7) UA Expansion 7 Celestial
Archives Visit 2: Docking Bay

Stand on the edge of the main
walkway in the Docking Bay,
which is the place where you
gained the first Artifact on
your second visit. Take the
moving platform that is to the
front right, and it will take
you to a platform where a UA
Expansion is.

(UA8) UA Expansion 8
Alinos Visit 2: Magma Drop

Inside one of the tunnels that
is underneath the open area
where you originally fought
Spire, you will find a small
Purple Force Field near the
ground. Destroy it with the
Judicator, and you will find
health. Instead of merely
collecting the health, though,
switch to Morph Ball form and
roll towards the lava. It leads
to an area that you must go
through to find the eight UA
Expansion.

(UA9) UA Expansion 9
Alinos Visit 2: Processor Core

The room that holds the
Stronghold Portal also holds a
UA Expansion. Use the jump pads
to get on top of the processors,
and on one of the ledges near
the top of the room you will
find what you are looking for.

(UA10) UA Expansion 10
Arcterra Visit 2: Santorus

Sanctorus is the area beyond the
door protected by the Red Blast
Shield at the end of the Morph
Ball ice labyrinth. Once you
enter Sanctorus, do not go
straight and drop down. Head
down the left corridor, and you
will find this UA Expansion.

(UA11) UA Expansion 11
Arcterra Visit 2: Drip Moat

Instead of walking onto the
platform that will carry you
safely across the winding
corridor known as the Drip Moat,
jump over it and fall all the
way down to the sludge. Just
underneath where you jump from,
you will find a solid structure
with a jump pad at the top of
it. Use the jump pad to bounce
into the air back towards where
you jumped down from. On your
way up, you should notice a UA
Expansion.

(UA12) UA Expansion 12 Vesper
Defense Outpost Visit 2: Stasis
Bunker

After you complete the first
timed challenge to obtain the
first Shield Key, you will be on
a small ledge. To the right, you
can jump onto another small
ledge and from there you can
jump onto the back of the object
hanging from the ceiling. It has
a UA Expansion on it.

*=*=*=*=*=**=*=*=*
9. Special Thanks
*=*=*=*=*=**=*=*=*

Turkish Monky: For letting me
borrow his DS for a week so that
I could write this guide; my DS
has dysfunctional L and R
buttons.

Turk Daddy: For selling Turkish
Monky his DS so that he could
later loan it to me so that I
could play and write about
Metroid Prime Hunters.

Nintendo: For making such an
awesome game.

All My Readers: Without you,
this project would have been
pointless. Thanks for reading!

[End Transmission]

