================================

              999:
    Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Ni
     FAQ/Walkthrough (NDS)
   Last Updated: November 29, 20
    Written by ArtifactMage

================================


================================

       Table of Contents

================================

1. Introduction
2. Prologue
3. Coffin; True Ending [ED01]
4. Axe Ending [ED02]
5. Knife Ending [ED03]
6. Submarine Ending [ED04]
7. Safe/Letter Ending [ED05]
8. Contact
9. Credits
10. Copyright

================================

        1. Introduction

================================

Hi, I'm ArtifactMage and this is
my bare-bones walkthrough for
999. By bare-bones, I mean, I
won't be listing controls or
characters or holding your hand
through this game. This guide is
just to help you get through the
endings of your choice as
quickly as possible.

In general, please examine all
evidence you get and make
yourself familiar with the room
before you look at the guide.
Some of my instructions might
seem confusing if you don't know
your surroundingsor haven't
talked to the other characters
about certain pieces of
evidence.

Let's get started, shall we?


================================

          2. Prologue

================================


Touch the Mirror for the Red Key
Examine the Card on the bulletin
board Take the Photo Look under
the pillow for a Card Examine
the pot on top of the oven for
the Blue Key Open the bottom of
oven to acquire the Screwdriver
Combine the Screwdriver and
Photo for a hint Examine the
Blue Briefcase Blue Key,
Combination: [0263] Acquire Blue
Key Cards Open the Closet Touch
the Red Briefcase Red Key,
Combination: [7485] Take Red Key
Cards Examine the Lock Try both
sets of cards [6 + 7 + 1 = 5]
Leave



================================

  3. Coffin/True Ending [ED01]

================================

Note: To get the True End, you
must play through the Safe End.
If you don't, you'll get the
Coffin Ending. Cheat Sheet: Door
4, Door 7, Door 1


Santa and June (3 + 6) [5 + 3 +
6 = 14 -> 1 + 4 = 5] [...that
everyone who verified had to
go.] [4] [...decided that door 4
would be fine.]


June's room: Collect the Matches
from the table on the right Go
into the bedroom and take the
Map from the wall Examine the
dresser drawer for the Dresser
Key


In Lotus's room: Take the
Candlestick off the table
Combine the Matches and
Candlestick Open the dresser
drawer with the Dresser Key Take
the Plate Receive the Curtain
from the bed Examine the
Candlestick for the Candlestick
Key Unlock the display case with
the Candlestick Key Take the
Plate [Take the bookmark] Go
into the bathroom Put up the
Curtain Pull back both Curtains
Examine the hole [5th from the
top and 3rd from the right]


Back in June's room: Go into the
bathroom Examine the
aforementioned tile for a Plate


Return to Lotus's room: Examine
the painting Adjust the Plates
to look like the painting in
June's room Receive the Mars Key
[A Dog.] Leave Open the double
doors


Kitchen: Investigate the sink
Acquire the Whetstone Go into
the pantry and look behind the
middle cheese Acquire the Bottle
of Oil Check the thin box on the
shelves for a Rusty Knife
Combine the Rusty Knife with the
Whetstone Use Oil on the rusted
deadbolt to open the door left
of the pantry Examine the
shelves to receive a Chunk of
Pork Open the cabinet for Dry
Ice and Chicken [He wanted out
of here now.] [That's
interesting.] [...Was honestly
impressed.] Examine the floor
for Sturdy Rope and Water Bottle
Combine the Dry Ice and Chicken
Combine the Crushed Dry Ice and
Water Bottle Combine the Water
Bottle with Dry Ice Inside with
the Sturdy Rope Select the door
handle Examine the stove Cut the
Pork with the Knife [C + 10 + F]
Touch the locked cabinet [C =
12, + 10 = 16, + F = 15 = 43]
Open the doors for the Saturn
Key Card Unlock the door and
leave


[Back to the large hospital room
(C Deck)] [Walk away without
saying anything.] [Finish
searching.] [She was right.]
[Door 7]


Operating Room: Examine the cart
for Kocher Forceps Take the Fake
Chest from the bench Examine the
other table for Scalpel Use the
forceps on the mannequin bust
for Fake Organ Combine the Fake
Organ with the Scalpel for the
Organ Key Unlock the door left
of the entrance Examine the note
on the table [Iron=1 Salt=2
Water=3 Carbon Dioxide=?
Ammonia=? Ethanol=?] [Carbon
Dioxide = 3, Ammonia 4, Ethanol
= 9] [349] Take the Fake Right
Arm and the Fake Heart Take the
Blue Liquid and the Red Liquid
[...Know about ice-9?] Unlock
the door left of the pharmacy
Open the dresser drawer Acquire
the medical record Add Blue
Liquid to the beaker and turn on
the light Take the Fake Left Leg
from the blue locker Add Red
Liquid to the beaker and turn on
the light Take the Fake Right
Leg from the red locker Add both
Liquids to the beaker and turn
on the light Take the Fake
Stomach from the purple locker
Remove the sheet from the second
medical table Replace "Lucy's"
body parts [53.2kg] Examine the
box in front of "John's" table
Acquire Jupiter Key [...Give her
the four-leaf clover] [Patch it
up.]


[Of course there's a reason.]
[They could only go down.]
[Of course.]
[Hmm... Well, that's possible.]
[Door 1]


Wheelhouse: Open the chest of
drawers Take the Stack of
Nautical Charts Examine the map
on the wall for A Nautical Table
Look at the shelf for The Ship's
Log Examine the middle drawer of
the desk Take the Pocket Watch
[Well, not a problem, but...]
[Santa and Seven] [2 + 3 + 7 =
12 = 1 + 2 = 3] Turn the
steering wheel [South, West,
Southwest, Northwest, East,
North] Examine the arrival board
right of the exit Replace the
handle on the engine order
telegraph [Full, Half, Slow,
Full, Half, Dead Slow, Stop]
Examine the arrival board with
the Pocket Watch in-hand Place
the Pocket Watch on the exit
Leave


Captain's Quarters: Take the
Music Box from the nightstand
Open the desk drawer for The
Numeral System Chart Select the
keyboard then the "z e r o"
screens


Communication Office: Open the
left side of drawers on the desk
Take the Paper Take the Small
Screwdrivers Remove the Ink from
the drawers Combine the Music
Box and the Screwdrivers Combine
the Ink and Cylinder Combine the
Dirty Cylinder and Paper Follow
the Morse Code Sheet to unlock
the desk drawer Take the Unique
Key Insert the Unique Key into
the door lock [z = 35, e = 14, r
= 27, o = 24] Leave


(The Coffin Ending leaves you
here.)


[Right -> Left -> Right -> Left
-> Right -> Left] [Seven +
Junpei + Cap]


Library: Examine the bottom
right shelf Switch the books to
spell [Open, Here, Find, Bulb]
Take the Powerful Light Bulb Go
down the stairs and examine the
cabinet and lock [632415] Take
the 2nd Powerful Light Bulb
Receive the Book from the
bookshelf left of the cabinet
Open the Book to change it to
Pop-Up Book Go upstairs and
examine the bookshelf to the
right for a Pop-Up Book Examine
the top left bookshelf and take
the Powerful Light Bulb Examine
the bottom left bookshelf in
front of the stairs for a Pop-Up
Book Go back downstairs and
replace the light bulbs in the
center pillar Place all three
Pop-Up Books on the stands
[SHELDRAKE-5] Examine the shadow
Examine the pink, blue and white
volumed books Go up the stairs
and examine the output monitor
[XIII = 13, XIV = 14, X = 10,
XIII = 13 13 = D, 14 = E, 10 =
A, 13 = D DEAD] Leave


Zero's Laboratory: Take the
nautical table from the drafting
table Examine the computer on
the far side of the room [ 64
1F5 9 C] [Tap the buttons in the
following order: 4, 6, F, B, C.
The board should now be empty.
Select D, 6, 4, 5, B, C to clear
the puzzle.] Take the Cross
Emblem from the right Select the
large blue monitor and the
compass underneath [South, West,
Southeast, Northeast, East,
North, East] Take the Helm
Emblem Open the large cabinet
for Morse Code Charts 1 - 3 Open
the shuttered wall right of the
exit Examine the other large
blue screen on the far left wall
[ICE
. .
- . - .
.]
Take the Code Emblem Open the
coffin Take the Neptune Key and
the Coffin Emblem Examine the
monitors next to the ALL puzzle
Place the emblems in the
following order [1. Helm 6 = 3,
6, 7, 8 3 = 1, 2, 4, 5] [2.
Cross 1 = 2, 3, 5 7 = 8, 7, 6,
4] [3. Code 7 = 4, 5, 7 7 = 2,
6, 8] [4. Coffin 8 = 2, 4, 5, 7,
8 9 = Nothing] Open the drawer
for a picture and the 0 Key Card
Leave


Incinerator:
[431 872 569
587 649 213
629 351 874

245 968 731
168 723 495
973 415 628

394 286 157
716 594 382
852 137 946]


[2 + 4 + 5 + 7 + 8]


TRUE END



================================

      4. Axe Ending [ED02]

================================

Cheat Sheet: Door 5, Door 8,
Door 1


Santa and June (3 + 6) [5 + 3 +
6 = 14 -> 1 + 4 = 5] [...that
everyone who verified had to
go.] [4] [...decided that it had
to be Door 5.]


1st Class Cabin: Examine the bed
and look under the pillow
Receive Score Plate [A] Examine
the piano and take the map of
the ship Examine the piano keys
Open the right door Examine the
cabinet Take Score Piece [C] Go
through the left door Examine
the fireplace Take the vase by
the left door Head through the
right door Go into the middle
door (bathroom) Fill the vase
with water Unplug the drain
Receive Score Plate [D] Go back
to the fireplace Douse the fire
Acquire Score Plate Open the
left door Examine the cabinet
Take Score Plate [G] Examine the
piano in the first room Touch
the music stand Touch the keys
in this order from left to
right: [3 4 5 6 3 5 4 3 4 3 5 6
6 5 4 3] (Westminster chime)
Leave


Casino: Examine the table in
front for the 5 of Spades
Examine the bar for the 4 of
Spades Examine the counter for
the 7 of Spades Touch the
fireplace mantle Turn on the
lights Examine the canvas Touch
the card on the mantle for the 6
of Spades Examine the wood in
the fireplace to get a Coin Bag
Touch the rounded counter by the
stained glass for the 3 of
Spades Examine the blue
rectangle in the center [5 + 6 +
7 = 17 -> 1 + 7 = 8] Receive the
8 of Spades Examine the middle
slot machine while holding the
blue bag Touch the buttons in
order: [Club Diamond Heart]
Receive Venus Key and 2 of
Spades from the drawer Go over
to the lock, enter the 8 of
Spades [1 + 8 = 9] Enter the 2,
3, and 4 of Spades [2 + 3 + 4 =
9] Leave


[The hallway with all the rooms
(C Deck)] [Run to Ace.] [Back to
the large hospital room (C
Deck)] [Walk away without saying
anything.] [Finish searching.]
[She was right.] [Door 8.]


Laboratory: Examine the green-
lit lockers Acquire Ethanol Take
the 3-pronged Power Cable from
the cart Examine the table next
to the mannequin Give Clover the
Ethanol Examine the table again
Acquire Clover's Note Examine
the computer monitor Examine the
machine above the mannequin Take
the 2-prong Plug Combine the
Power Cable with the Plug Turn
on the computer Follow Clover's
Note to unlock the lockers
[Bottom Right, Top Right, Top
Left, Middle] Examine the
lockers Acquire the Earth Key
and Activation Key Turn on the
main computer Examine the
machine against the wall behind
the mannequin Open Clover's door
Leave


[Of course there's a reason.]
[They could only go down.]
[Of course.]
[Hmm.. Well, that's possible.]
[Door 1]


Wheelhouse: Open the chest of
drawers Take the Stack of
Nautical Charts Examine the map
on the wall for A Nautical Table
Look at the shelf for The Ship's
Log Examine the middle drawer of
the desk Take the Pocket Watch
[Well, not a problem, but...]
Examine the engine order
telegraph Turn the steering
wheel [South, West, Southwest,
Northwest, East, North] Replace
the handle on the engine order
telegraph [Full, Half, Slow,
Full, Half, Dead Slow, Stop]
Examine the arrival board with
the Pocket Watch in-hand Place
the Pocket Watch on the exit
Leave


Captain's Quarters: Take the
Music Box from the nightstand
Open the desk drawer for The
Numeral System Chart Select the
keyboard then the "z e r o"
screens


Communication Office: Open the
left side of drawers on the desk
Take the Paper Take the Small
Screwdrivers Remove the Ink from
the drawers Combine the Music
Box and the Screwdrivers Combine
the Ink and Cylinder Combine the
Dirty Cylinder and Paper Follow
the Morse Code Sheet to unlock
the desk drawer Take the Unique
Key Insert the Unique Key into
the door lock [z = 35, e = 14, r
= 27, o = 24] Leave


BAD END



================================

     5. Knife Ending [ED03]

================================

Cheat Sheet: Door 4, Door 8,
Door 6


Santa and June (3 + 6) [5 + 3 +
6 = 14 -> 1 + 4 = 5] [...that
everyone who verified had to
go.] [4] [...decided that door 4
would be fine.]


June's room: Collect the Matches
from the table on the right Go
into the bedroom and take the
Map from the wall Examine the
dresser drawer for the Dresser
Key


In Lotus's room: Take the
Candlestick off the table
Combine the Matches and
Candlestick Open the dresser
drawer with the Dresser Key Take
the Plate Receive the Curtain
from the bed Examine the
Candlestick for the Candlestick
Key Unlock the display case with
the Candlestick Key Take the
Plate [Take the bookmark] Go
into the bathroom Put up the
Curtain Pull back both Curtains
Examine the hole [5th from the
top and 3rd from the right]


Back in June's room: Go into the
bathroom Examine the
aforementioned tile for a Plate


Return to Lotus's room: Examine
the painting Adjust the Plates
to look like the painting in
June's room Receive the Mars Key
[A small boat floating on the
water.] Leave Open the double
doors


Kitchen: Investigate the sink
Acquire the Whetstone Go into
the pantry and look behind the
cheese Acquire the Bottle of Oil
Check the thin box on the
shelves for a Rusty Knife
Combine the Rusty Knife with the
Whetstone Use Oil on the rusted
deadbolt to open the door left
of the pantry Examine the
shelves to receive a Chunk of
Pork Open the cabinet for Dry
Ice and Chicken [He wanted out
of here now.] [That's
interesting.] [...Was honestly
impressed.] Examine the floor
for Sturdy Rope and Water Bottle
Combine the Dry Ice and Chicken
Combine the Crushed Dry Ice and
Water Bottle Combine the Water
Bottle with Dry Ice Inside with
the Sturdy Rope Select the door
handle Examine the stove Cut the
Pork with the Knife [C + 10 + F]
Touch the locked cabinet [C =
12, + 10 = 16, + F = 15 = 43]
Open the doors for the Saturn
Key Card Unlock the door and
leave


[Back to the large hospital room
(C Deck)] [Walk away without
saying anything.] [Finish
searching.] [She was right.]
[Door 8]


Laboratory: Examine the green-
lit lockers Acquire Ethanol Take
the 3-pronged Power Cable from
the cart Examine the table next
to the mannequin Give Clover the
Ethanol Examine the table again
Acquire Clover's Note Examine
the computer monitor Examine the
machine above the mannequin Take
the 2-prong plug Combine the
Power Cable with the Plug Turn
on the computer Follow Clover's
Note to unlock the lockers
[Bottom Right, Top Right, Top
Left, Middle] Examine the
lockers Acquire the Earth Key
and Activation Key Turn on the
main computer Examine the
machine against the wall behind
the mannequin Open Clover's door
Leave


[Of course there's a reason.]
[They could only go down.]
[Of course.]
[Hmm... Well, that's possible.]
[Door 6]


Boiler Room: Go up the second
flight of stairs and examine
Door A Take the Wheel from the
winch through Door B Examine the
winch through Door C Take the
Control Panel out of the box
Place the Control Panel in the
door of the conveyor belt Take
the Box Filled with Coal Put the
Coal into the furnace Go up the
stairs and examine the panel on
the wall Take the silver disc,
the bronze disc, and the gold
disc from their respective gears
Examine the exit up the other
stairs [ Silver Gold Copper]
[Line up the red lines to form a
star polygon] Leave


Cargo Room: Open the bag to the
left for Nine's Card Open the
bag on the right for Santa's
Card Examine the two bags on the
left side for Snake and Clover's
Cards Open the small box for
Ace's Card Open the bag on the
right side for Seven's Card
Examine the blue boxes for
Lotus's Card Look in the open
crate for Junpei and June's
Cards Open the blue boxes Climb
to the top of the stairs and
touch the number pad [Upper Row:
541 = 1 821 = 2 921 = 3 634 = 4
743 = 5 Lower Row: 987 = 6 745 =
7 647 = 8 981 = 9] [All pins
must equal 15 horizontally,
vertically and diagonally 816
357 492] Examine the top control
panel [Push all the boxes
counter-clockwise to form a +
  A
B   C
  D
Starting from the top, push Box
D into Slot 3 then up into Slot
2 Push Box A into Slot 1 Push
Box C into Slot 4 Push Box B
into Slot 3 46 moves] Climb the
crates over the fence and touch
the coffin Open the door with
the Rusty Key Leave


BAD END


================================

   6. Submarine Ending [ED04]

================================

Cheat Sheet: Door 4, Door 3,
Door 2


[Ace and Lotus (1 + 8)] [5 + 1 +
8 = 14 -> 1 + 4 = 5] [...that
everyone who verified had to
go.] [...decided that door 4
would be fine.] [Door 4]


June's room: Collect the Matches
from the table on the right Go
into the bedroom and take the
Map from the wall Examine the
dresser drawer for the Dresser
Key


In Lotus's room: Take the
Candlestick off the table
Combine the Matches and
Candlestick Open the dresser
drawer with the Dresser Key Take
the Plate Receive the Curtain
from the bed Examine the
Candlestick for the Candlestick
Key Unlock the display case with
the Candlestick Key Take the
Plate Take the bookmark Go into
the bathroom Put up the Curtain
Pull back both Curtains Examine
the hole [5th from the top and
3rd from the right]


Back in June's room: Go into the
bathroom Examine the
aforementioned tile for a Plate


Return to Lotus's room: Examine
the painting Adjust the Plates
to look like the painting in
June's room Receive the Mars Key
[A Dog.] Leave Open the double
doors


Kitchen: Investigate the sink
Acquire the Whetstone Go into
the pantry and look behind the
cheese Acquire the Bottle of Oil
Check the thin box on the
shelves for a Rusty Knife
Combine the Rusty Knife with the
Whetstone Use Oil on the rusted
deadbolt to open the door left
of the pantry Examine the
shelves to receive a Chunk of
Pork Open the cabinet for Dry
Ice and Chicken [He wanted out
of here now.] [That's
interesting.] [...Was honestly
impressed.] Examine the floor
for Sturdy Rope and Water Bottle
Combine the Dry Ice and Chicken
Combine the Crushed Dry Ice and
Water Bottle Combine the Water
Bottle with Dry Ice Inside with
the Sturdy Rope Select the door
handle Examine the stove Cut the
Pork with the Knife [C + 10 + F]
Touch the locked cabinet [C =
12, + 10 = 16, + F = 15 = 43]
Open the doors for the Saturn
Key Card Unlock the door and
leave


[Door 3] Shower Room: Open the
far stall Acquire the broom and
bucket Acquire toilet paper from
above the stall Acquire Luminol
Examine the paper Combine the
broom with the paper and examine
[634+] Look in the closest stall
Examine the toilet tank for a
Red Key Card Examine the metal
door under the showers Turn the
second from the right valve Fill
the bucket with hot water
Examine the toilet tank in the
middle stall Take the
screwdriver Fill it with the hot
water Examine the toilet bowl
[185=] Unscrew the thermometer
from the wall Pour hot water on
the thermometer [957+] Spray
Luminol on the bloody wall [LLR
LRL] Examine the drain on the
floor Turn the valves following
the writing on the wall Take the
Blue/Mercury Key Card from the
drain Use the Red and
Blue/Mercury Key Cards at the
lock on the exit [957+634+185=]
[1776] Leave


[Door 2] Select the 2nd room
Examine the toilet [Crescent
moon] Examine the bed Acquire a
Towel Remove the drawer from the
desk Select the 1st room Examine
the toilet [Sun] Remove the
Handle from the string above the
toilet Touch the toilet paper
holder and take the screwdriver
shaft Combine the handle and the
shaft Combine the screwdriver
and the desk drawer Use the
screwdriver on the desk drawer
Take the drawer Receive Knob
Attach the knob to the sink in
the 2nd room Take the tile from
the 1st room's sink Replace the
drawer in the 2nd desk Receive
Tile Select the 3rd room Examine
the light Select the right
mirror to shine light on [Left:
Sun, Right: Moon] Select the
left mirror to shine light on
[Left: 4, Right: 7] Examine the
toilet [14=E] Flush the 1st
[Sun] toilet 4 times Flush the
2nd [Moon] toilet 7 times Open
the drawer in the 3rd room
Acquire 2 Tiles Select the
"EMERGENCE" door [Replace all
the E tiles] Leave


Torture Chamber: Select the
screen next to the chair [Top
left, top right, bottom right,
bottom left, top right] Take the
Wrench from the table Use the
Wrench to take off the bolts on
the pipe Reach in to the pipe
for the Sun Key Unlock the
manacles on the chair Pull the
yellow lever on the control
panel Examine the glass floor
[ED BF] Select the screen Select
the control panel [ED BF] Select
the screen again Change the
ON/OFF switches in the following
order: [left: bottom 1 right:
top 1, bottom 2 left: top 1,
bottom 2 right: top 1, bottom 1
left: top 2] Leave


BAD END


================================

  7. Safe/Letter Ending [ED05]

================================

Cheat Sheet: Door 5, Door 8,
Door 6

Santa and June (3 + 6) [5 + 3 +
6 = 14 -> 1 + 4 = 5] [...that
only 2 people can go through]
[2] [...decided that it had to
be Door 5]


1st Class Cabin: Examine the bed
Look under the pillow Receive
Score Plate [A] Examine the
piano Receive a map of the ship
Examine the piano keys Open the
right door Examine the cabinet
Take Score Piece [C] Examine the
safe Go through the left door
Examine the fireplace Take the
vase by the left door Head
through the right door Go into
the middle door (bathroom) Fill
the vase with water Unplug the
drain Receive Score Plate [D] Go
back to the fireplace Douse the
fire Acquire Score Plate Open
the left door Examine the
cabinet Take Score Plate [G]
Examine the piano in the first
room Touch the music stand Touch
the keys in this order from left
to right: 3 4 5 6 3 5 4 3 4 3 5
6 6 5 4 3 (Westminster chime)
Leave


Casino: Examine the table in
front for the 5 of Spades
Examine the bar for the 4 of
Spades Examine the counter for
the 7 of Spades Touch the
fireplace mantle Turn on the
lights Examine the canvas Touch
the card on the mantle for the 6
of Spades Examine the wood in
the fireplace to get a Coin Bag
Touch the rounded counter by the
stained glass for the 3 of
Spades Examine the blue
rectangle in the center [5 + 6 +
7 = 17 -> 1 + 7 = 8] Examine the
middle slot machine while
holding the blue bag Touch the
buttons in order: [Club Diamond
Heart] Receive Venus Key and 2
of Spades from the drawer Go
over to the lock, enter the 8 of
spades [1 + 8 = 9] Then 2, 3, 4
of spades [2 + 3 + 4 = 9] Leave


[Back to the Hospital (C Deck)]
[Leave without saying anything]
[Finish searching.]
[She was right.]
[Door 8.]


Laboratory: Examine the green-
lit lockers Acquire Ethanol Take
the 3-pronged Power Cable from
the cart Examine the table next
to the mannequin Give Clover the
Ethanol Examine the table again
Acquire Clover's Note Examine
the machine above the mannequin
Take the 2-prong plug Combine
the Power Cable with the Plug
Turn on the computer Follow
Clover's Note to unlock the
lockers [Bottom Right, Top
Right, Top Left, Middle] Examine
the lockers Acquire the Earth
Key and Activation Key Turn on
the main computer Examine the
machine against the wall behind
the mannequin Open Clover's door
Leave


[Of course there's a reason.]
[They could only go down.]
[Of course.]
[Hmm... Well, that's possible.]
[Door 6.]


Boiler Room: Go up the second
flight of stairs and examine
Door A Take the Wheel from the
winch through Door B Examine the
winch through Door C Take the
Control Panel out of the box
Place the Control Panel in the
door of the conveyor belt Take
the Box Filled with Coal Put the
Coal into the furnace Go up the
stairs and examine the panel on
the wall Take the silver disc,
the bronze disc, and the gold
disc from their respective gears
Examine the exit up the other
stairs [ Silver Gold Copper]
[Line up the red lines to form a
star polygon] Leave


Cargo Room: Open the bag to the
left for Nine's Card Open the
bag on the right for Santa's
Card Examine the two bags on the
left side for Snake and Clover's
Cards Open the small box for
Ace's Card Open the bag on the
right side for Seven's Card
Examine the blue boxes for
Lotus's Card Look in the open
crate for Junpei and June's
Cards Open the blue boxes Climb
to the top of the stairs and
touch the number pad [Upper Row:
541 = 1 821 = 2 921 = 3 634 = 4
743 = 5 Lower Row: 987 = 6 745 =
7 647 = 8 981 = 9] [All pins
must equal 15 horizontally,
vertically and diagonally 816
357 492] Examine the top control
panel [Push all the boxes
counter-clockwise to form a
  A
B   C
  D
Starting from the top, push Box
D into Slot 3 then up into Slot
2 Push Box A into Slot 1 Push
Box C into Slot 4 Push Box B
into Slot 3 46 moves] Climb the
crates over the fence and touch
the coffin Open the door with
the Rusty Key Leave


[The left hand.] [What else
could they mean?] [Right -> Left
-> Right -> Left -> Right ->
Left] [Junpei + Seven + The
Bracelet]


BAD END


================================

           8. Contact

================================

Contact me at
artifactmage[at]gmail[dot]com if
I've forgotten something, I'm
wrong about something or if you
have a question I didn't answer.
Put "999 Walkthrough" in the
subject field or I will most
likely delete it. Please don't
email me if your question has
been answered in the guide
already.


================================

           9. Credits

================================

Thank you to this guide: http://
games.gaym.jp/DS/kyokugen_999/
for giving me the solution to
the kitchen lock. Thank you for
reading.

================================

         10. Copyright

================================

Copyright (c) 2010 ArtifactMage
This guide may be not be
reproduced under any
circumstances except for
personal, private use. It may
not be placed on any web site or
otherwise distributed publicly
without advance written
permission. Use of this guide on
any other web site or as a part
of any public display is
strictly prohibited, and a
violation of copyright. This
guide is authorized to be hosted
on GameFAQs, Neoseeker, CheatCC,
GamersHell and SuperCheats.
