"Pokemon Ranger: Hikari no
Kiseki" for Nintendo DS
Walkthrough By Mykas0 version
1.0 15-4-2010

BE SURE TO READ THIS FIRST PART!
You can read this faq as long as
you don't change ANY part of it
(including this small
introduction). Also, you may
NEVER sell this stuff or else
you will make me really mad and
maybe I won't work anymore!
Finally, if you want to use this
faq on your site you have to
mail me and ask me for it, I
will almost surely grant it to
you!

While I may not be a very huge
fan of the Pokemon series, I
decided to write this guide
based on user feedback from my
guide for its prequels. So, once
more I want to give thanks to
guys at http://www.serebii.net ,
their website is great and some
of their information was used
(with permission) to fully
complete this guide, and without
their help this wouldn't have
been possible. Also, the entire
website is a great resource for
Pokemon information, so be sure
to pay them a visit. Also, I am
currently accepting donations.
In case you liked this guide and
you feel like contributing for
my future works (even a $5
online gift certificate is
fine!), please contact me to the
mail stated at the end of this
guide. Now, please continue
reading and I hope you enjoy
doing so as much as I did
writing it.



0~. Version History
--------------------------------
1~. Walkthrough
    1.1~. First Mission
    1.2~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.3~. Second Mission
    1.4~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.5~. Third Mission
    1.6~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.7~. Fourth Mission
    1.8~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.9~. Fifth Mission
    1.10~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.11~. Sixth Mission
    1.12~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.13~. Seventh Mission
    1.14~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.15~. Eighth Mission
    1.16~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.17~. Ninth Mission
    1.18~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.19~. Tenth Mission
    1.20~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.21~. Eleventh Mission
    1.22~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.23~. Twelfth Mission
    1.24~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.25~. Thirteenth Mission
    1.26~. (More) Walkthrough
    1.27~. Fourteenth Mission
2~. What now?
    2.1~. Quests
    2.2~. Multiplayer Missions
    2.3~. Ranger Net
FAQ~. Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------------
ST~. Special Thanks
EN~. Contacts



0~. Version History

-> version 1.0 <-
- Added two new missions to "Ran

-> version 0.97 <-
- Added two new missions to "Ran
-- Added a new question to "Freq

-> version 0.96 <-
- Fixed some minor typos.

-> version 0.95 <-
- Completed every section of thi



1~. Walkthrough

Just like in my guides for the
first two games, I have to start
by saying that while some people
may desire so, this walkthrough
will simply tell you what do you
need to do in each mission and
how to perform it, I will not be
spending my time trying to
provide a lot of unuseful
information, or stating stuff as
"give two steps to the left and
then turn three steps to the
right". Therefore, I will only
provide information that I think
to be valuable, and which can
indeed matter to a random person
who is playing this game. Now,
on to the walkthrough itself...

After selecting the sex of your
character, start playing.
Eventually, you will be attacked
by a Pidgey, which you can
defeat by doing the very same
thing you did in the previous
games (come on, if you're
reading these lines I'm sure
you've played those other
games!). Now, if... for some
weird reason you played none of
those previous games, let me
make it simple enough for you -
to win this battle you just have
to draw quick circles around
that flying Pokemon (it's called
a Pidgey!), without ever lifting
your stylus. Got it? Now, do it
for the rest of the game, that's
the way you capture creatures
around here!

Once the battle is over, you'll
have to play a small mini-game,
where you dodge the energy balls
thrown at you. It's pretty easy,
really, just dodge them by
moving your stylus around, or by
using the directional pad. Soon,
a companion of yours will show
up and you'll see a longer
cutscene, after which you'll
have to play another mini-game.
This time, you can move your
character left/right by using
your stylus (you'll have to do
so in order to dodge the air
bubbles), but you should double-
tap + hold it down to make your
character dash, so that he can
approach the enemy.

When you finally get to move
your character, we'll be in a
small island, and you will get
to name him/her. Do it as usual,
and then move to the left, where
you'll find your very first save
point. There isn't much to do
around here, simply follow the
only available path and you'll
have to fight a Pichu. If this
is your first time playing a
game of the "Pokemon Ranger"
series, you may want to pick the
left option for a quick battle
tutorial; otherwise, simply
press the right one and you'll
head straight to the battle,
which you can win as before,
just by quickly circling the
Pichu. Yes, you'll also be able
to skip other tutorials by doing
this very same thing, by the
way.

Now, there are some more Pokemon
in this area, and so I strongly
suggest you explore it well, so
that you add as many beasts to
your party as possible. To
remove the upper log, simply
capture a Sunkern, or a
Bulbasaur, and use one of them
to get rid of it. The procedure
is the same as in previous
games, if you don't know about
it the game even allows you to
see a quick tutorial about it.
Keep on following the only
possible path, and be sure to
capture the sole Ursaring
around. Later, you'll have to
use it to push a boat all the
way down, so that you can use it
to travel across the sea. Once
you've accomplished that task,
talk to the old man, pick the
left option and you'll travel
across the sea, accompanied by a
Pichu. After a long cutscene,
you'll finally get your first
mission!



1.1~. First Mission

There are some new Pokemon
around here (and to the right),
and you may want to capture them
before taking the upper exit to
this area. If you are wondering
about the device placed next to
the save point, that's a machine
which fully restores your HP.
Now, after taking the upper
exit, follow the only possible
path and you'll find yourself in
a dark forest, where you'll be
introduced to a new (well, sort
of...) feature, in which you can
click the lower right icon to
summon your own Pokemon to the
battlefield.

There are also many new
creatures around, be sure to
capture the Stantler, just in
case. Get rid of the log, placed
all to the left, with the nearby
Hoothoot, and continue heading
up, where you'll fight what
seems to be your first boss
battle, or something. I strongly
suggest you start by defeating
the Croagunk, since it can cause
your more trouble that its
companion; using any sort of bug
pokemon may also slightly help
you, since they seem to slow
your opponents. Another
important tip is that, unlike
what happened in previous games,
it seems that you can now lift
your stylus for an unlimited
amount of time; use that to your
advantage, so that you can
defeat these enemies without
much effort.

Afterwards, save your game if
you want to, and take the upper
exit into the cave. There are
some new Pokemon around here,
feel free to capture as many as
you want, but you'll need a
Koffing. Use it to get rid of
the boulder on the right, and
proceed by the only possible
path, where you'll soon have to
fight a Cranidos. He isn't very
tough, just be sure to lift your
stylus whenever you see him
charging his attack. Once you've
defeated him, a rather
unfrequent scene will take
place. Ignore it (well, there's
nothing much you can do about
it, is there?), and your mission
will soon be over.



1.2~. (More) Walkthrough

Before leaving this cave by the
lower exit, go to the lower-left
room and capture the lone
Cranidos. Outside of the cave,
use him to destroy the rock
blocking your path, and take the
path back to the village (if you
brought one all the way here,
you can use a Zubat to get rid
of the wooden fence). As you
approach the main square, you'll
be able to save your game, and
you should then move back to
this island's main cottage, the
one where the old man lives.
Talk to him again when he has a
"..." over his head and you'll
get your very first quest.

Next, talk to the man on the
boat and give him the left
answer. You'll be taken back to
the first island, go back to the
place where you started the game
and you'll have to fight six
Sunkern, which you can certainly
defeat without much effort. Go
back to the other island, once
more by taking the boat, and
talk to the man who requested
this quest.

Go back outside and take the
road to the cave. You'll fight a
Celebi, who will then take you
to some other place, and back.
Talk to the old man, he will be
in the same house as before, the
Pichu will join you, and you'll
learn how to use him in the
battlefield. There are some
quests (those are covered in a
different area of this guide!)
available around here, you may
want to take them now. When
you're ready to proceed, head to
the right, you'll be given your
second mission and you'll have
to fight a Lapras, who isn't all
that tough but has a lot of HP.



1.3~. Second Mission

After defeating the Lapras, talk
to the girl on the beach, the
one next to the one who has blue
hair, and pick the left option.
You will board the Lapras and go
on an underwater mission. There
are several new Pokemon around
here, for obvious reasons, and
which you may want to capture.
Then, follow the only possibly
path until a strong current
prevents you from proceeding.
Get a Corsola on the right and
use it to take down the rock,
before approaching the lower
exit, where you'll have to fight
two enemies at the same time.
Continue heading down and you'll
have to play a mini-game, one
you've already seen before,
where you'll have to face a
Kingdra. After that, continue
going down, the screen will be
darker but you can find the
required item in the lower right
corner. When you grab it, you'll
be taken all the way back to the
beach, and your mission will end
right away.



1.4~. (More) Walkthrough

A new path will open, to the
right of the beach you're
currently in. Take it, there are
several new Pokemon around here,
which you may want to capture,
as always. You'll soon have to
fight a Piplup and a Eevee at
the same time, they're not that
tough but you may want to
capture one at a time. When
you're ready to proceed, take
the upper exit and you'll see a
new cutscene. Capture the nearby
Totodile and use him to
extinguish the fire on the
right, you'll learn about a
whole new feature, this one
allows you to combine the
efforts of several pokemon to
accomplish a task.

Now that you know about this, go
back to the previous area and
capture two Buizel, plus a
Shellos (he is hiding under the
rock, in the beach). Go back to
the area with the fire, use
these three creatures on the
fire itself and it'll be put
out. You'll be able to save your
game. Do it if you want, and
you'll then hear about another
new feature, the ability to
upgrade your stats by using your
trainer points, i.e. the ones
you get from quests. Anyway,
step outside and take the route
to the left, following the only
possible path until you see
another cutscene. When that
happens, take the upper path,
you'll have to fight an Ivysaur,
and later a Wobbuffet, but you
should continue following that
only possible path until you
spot a cutscene where you'll
have to fight three different
Pokemon; I suggest you start by
taking out Skuntank, the
strongest of the three, but it
is really up to you. Also, if
you have your Pichu ready for
action, this may be the best
time to use him... Once the
battle is over, you'll see some
cutscenes, before heading to
your third mission.



1.5~. Third Mission

As awkward as it may look, the
guy in the yellow suit actually
heals your health, if you talk
to him. Anyway, when you're
ready to continue, step outside
and take the upper path. You'll,
once more, hear about a new
feature. Capture a Gligar and
use it to get rid of the metal
blocking your path. You'll have
to fight a Pichu, but continue
walking; next, you'll have to
pass across some electrified
bridges, time your movements
well and you won't be put into
any real danger. Eventually,
you'll reach a point where
you'll find some steel bars
blocking your path. Use a
Electrike to get rid of those,
proceed and you'll have to fight
three Pokemon, two Aron and a
Lairon. Obviously start by
getting rid of the two little
fellows before focusing on their
evolution, which you should
probably try to take down with
your Pichu's help.

After the battle, head to the
next floor, where the winds may
push you down; nevertheless, try
to use the wind currents to your
advantage, so that they help you
go down the vertical bridges
faster. Next floor, grab the two
Hitmonchan and use them to
destroy the debris blocking your
path. I strongly suggest you
grab two Gligar, save your game,
and then take the stairs to the
next floor, where you'll have to
fight a Raikou.

Initially, your enemy will be
surrounded by electricity,
making it harder for you to
circle him. Instead, summon your
Pichu whenever possible, and use
the Gligar (don't forget that,
in this game, they recharge
after some time!) whenever
possible. Keep on repeating this
strategy and, very soon, your
opponent will become
unprotected. When that happens,
start circling him, while still
using the strategy stated above,
with the Pichu and Gligar as
your backups, and you'll do just
fine. After the battle, your
mission will be over, and you'll
be back outside.



1.6~. (More) Walkthrough

Now, take the lower right exit
and go all the way down the
mountain, by taking the path you
previously came from. When you
see a cutscene, follow the
guards until the bridge is blown
up. You'll be able to save your
game, and you'll be taken back
to a house. When it becomes
possible, step outside and go
back to the old man's house.
After that, come back here and
Celebi will appear once more.
Once he takes you back, you'll
have to draw a sign in the
console's lower screen, after
pressing the lightning button in
the lower left. It's sort of
difficult to show you the sign
here, but it is something like
this:

  |/
 /|
 / |
 /__|___
  |  /
  | /
  |/

Now, by drawing this sign you'll
summon a Raikou, which your
character can actually ride.
Nevermind the fact that you're
riding a legendary Pokemon
across the world, and take him
back to the bridge. While
standing in the sparkling spots,
hold the direction you want to
jump to and hit the 'Y' button
(or you can simply tap it with
your stylus); doing so will
cause Raikou to jump over the
gap, an action you should
continue performing until you've
crossed the bridge to the right.
Proceed to the right, onto the
next area and, after a bunch of
cutscenes, try to take the lower
exit, which will get you in a
few more cutscenes. Take the
path to the lower left corner
for yet more cutscenes, before
talking to the old man next to
the lower right house. You'll
get a new mission.



1.7~. Fourth Mission

Take the exit on the right to
leave this town, and onto the
next area. Go to the upper exit
(the lower one doesn't have
anything major, right now) and
take it to the right, where
you'll find a bunch of Dusclops
guarding a dark forest. If one
of them sees you, you'll have to
start the whole "puzzle" all
over again, and so I suggest you
attack - and obviously, defeat -
them while they're looking away,
and proceed until you reach the
upper exit. Continue walking
until you see a house, but
instead of entering it right
away, take the lower path all
the way down, and you'll open
the locked gate from before.
Then, go back up and finally
enter the house, but not before
having explored this whole area,
since there are several new
Pokemon around here.

Inside, you'll have to fight
three Misdreavus. They're not
very strong, but since they're
constantly disappearing and
reappearing, it may prove hard
to capture them quickly.
Nonetheless, I strongly suggest
you focus on one of them until
you capture it, and then advance
to the next one. Don't bother
using any Pokemon here, since
they're just not worth it, in
terms of damage...

After the battle, you may want
to explore this and the upper
room. Proceed to the left one,
and after the cutscene advance
to the upper exit. Follow the
only possible path until you
reach a room with a long table,
where you should capture the
Golbat. Take the lower right
exit, capture the Vulpix and
take the lower exit, once again.
Use the Golbat to destroy one of
the fences on the left, and the
Vulpix to get rid of the big
spider web. Capture the two
Golbat inside - your Pichu is a
major help here - and head back
to the other corridor, where you
saw the blocked door. Use the
two Golbat to get rid of the
cupboard and enter the room.
Interact with the lone
bookshelf, pick the left option
and you'll be able to enter a
secret room.

Take the path downstairs, you'll
have to fight a Chikorita and a
Bayleef at the same time. Start
by getting rid of the Chikorita
and then focus on her stronger
evolution; also, if you have a
Vulpix (or some other fire
Pokemon) in your party, using
it, alongside with Pichu, makes
this battle a lot easier. Once
the battle is over, go capture
some sort of fire creature, if
you have none. Once you have
one, go up, pick the left option
and you will have to fight yet
another grass Pokemon, this time
a Meganium. I suggest you start
by attacking it with your fire
pokemon and, later on, with the
Pichu. Here, the major problem
is certainly the fact that your
opponent can use an attack that
creates several random spikes,
which may stop you (or make it
harder for you to...) from
encircling him. Don't worry,
when that happens simply lift
your stylus and summon your fire
Pokemon once again. Keep on
repeating, using the Pichu if
your opponent becomes all upset,
and eventually you'll win. After
the battle, your mission will be
over.



1.8~. (More) Walkthrough

Leave this mansion and you'll
see a Celebi again. He'll take
you back in time, and you'll
have to fight a Piplup (easy
battle). When he finally takes
you back to your world, you'll
gain the ability to play
multiplayer missions. Save your
game on the right and go all the
way back to the bridge area, the
one where you used Raikou to
jump around. You'll see a new
cutscene, after which you should
call Raikou, travel over the
bridge and back to the house
that was previously on fire.
After the cutscene, step
outside, board the Raikou and
head back to the village near
the bridge, the one you just
came from. There, approach the
lower left corner and, after
another cutscene, you'll be able
to save your game.

When you're ready to proceed,
leave this village by the upper
right exit, and head all to the
right. You'll have to fight a
Quilava and an Ambipom, who
aren't all that tough. Take the
road up and enter the ruins. You
will be given a new mission.



1.9~. Fifth Mission

Go up; there are some new
Pokemon around here, and you may
want to capture them. Grab a
Xatu from the lower left room,
use it to remove the door from
the lower right room for some
rarer beasts. Go all the way up
and you'll fight two Pichu, and
extremely easy battle if you use
your own Pichu for backup.
Capture one Kirlia and use it on
the pillar in the upper-middle
area of this room. Visit the
recently-opened room and
interact with the mirrors on the
right, so that they're like
this:

    \

    /

Go back to the previous room and
capture another Kirlia. This
time, take the upper left exit,
and use your Kirlia on the
pillar, as before. Continue
walking and you'll have to fight
a Xatu. Use your Pichu and the
battle will go fine. Be sure to
capture the two Quilava.
Afterwards, head to the next
room, and to the upper left
door, but not before facing
three enemies at the same time.
Start with the weaker one -
probably the Bibarel
- and leave the Bronzor for last
them all. Once you've defeated
them, take the upper exit
(capture the Mankey!) and use
the two Quilava to open the
doors.

In the new room, capture the
Kirlia by the door and use it on
the pillar on the left. Lave
this room, re-enter it, capture
the Kirlia again and use it on
the pillar on the right. Destroy
the block on the upper left by
using the Mankey, and move the
mirrors so that the room looks
like this:

/                      \

\       \     /   X    /
   \        \

o      /               \      o

Where "o" are the two pillars,
and "X" is the totem. Capture
one or two Bibarel, save your
game and take the upper door.
You will soon have to fight an
Entei. Initially, he isn't that
impressive, but when he gets
angry he will turn into a much
more powerful beast. When that
happens (you will see that, as
always, his HP bar will turn
red), start using your Pichu and
the Bibarel, which work
especially well here. However,
if one of them is hit by the
fire they'll quit the battle,
and since that's very likely to
happen, I really suggest, as
stated above, that you take two
(or more, if possible) water
Pokemon to this battle. After
calming him down, repeat the
same strategy, but try to
encircle this beast every time
stops and isn't preparing an
attack. When you finally manage
to defeat him, you will gain his
symbol, which is the following
one:

  |   |
 __|___|__
 \ |   | /
 \|   |/

Obviously, you have to draw it
before proceeding. Anyway, after
the cutscene your mission will
be over.



1.10~. (More) Walkthrough

After your companion stops
blabbering around, call for
Entei and use him to destroy the
rocks on the right (you can do
it by pressing 'Y'). Follow the
path back to the previous
village, and approach the left
exit for a new cutscene. Take
the bridge all to the left and
head back to the house that was
originally on fire. You will
learn how to improve your in-
battle attacks, which you can do
(as you could in the previous
game...) by holding your stylus
down before encircling your
enemies. When you're ready to
proceed, go back to the last
village and take the exit placed
in the middle. Soon, you'll get
a new mission.



1.11~. Sixth Mission

Call Entei and move all to the
left, until you find some
chasms. When that happens, call
Raikou and use him to jump all
the way to the right, eventually
make your way to a submarine.
Inside, take the door to your
right, followed by the upper
one. You'll find a small maze,
which you can exit by the lower
right corner, BUT you should not
do so before capturing a Luxio.
In the next room, capture
another Luxio, and then head
back to the initial room, this
time taking the lower exit. Use
the two Luxio to open the gate,
inside you'll have to fight
three Makuhita and three Gible
at the same time. They're not
that strong, but I suggest you
focus on a group whenever they
get together, and then on each
sole creature when they're
weaker. Afterwards, continue
walking to the right, and follow
the Pichu.

Go back to the first room,
capture a Gligar and a
Sandslash, and bring them back
here, where you should use them
to open the container. After the
cutscene, go outside and to the
right. Another maze-like area,
filled with Dusclops, which you
can avoid or defeat, as before.
Make your way to the rooms to
the right, and you'll soon fight
two Rampardos. Focus on one at a
time and they won't cause much
trouble, but be careful with
their main attack, in which
rocks will pop out randomly all
over the field. When you are
ready to proceed and you have at
least one Luxio in your party,
save your game, approach the
door on the right and press the
left option. This time, you'll
have to fight a Totodile and a
Croconaw; start with the little
guy, before focusing on his more
powerful evolution, if possible
with help from an electric
Pokemon (be careful, I'm not
talking about the ones that heal
you, but the ones that actually
attack the enemy). A few seconds
later, you'll also have to face
a Feraligatr. This one is
obviously tougher than his two
predecessors, but if you use a
Luxio to help you when the enemy
is mad, he'll go down much
easier than you could be
expecting.

Once you manage to defeat this
not-so-powerful beast, you'll be
able to save your game, and
continue playing. In the first
room, simply go all the way up.
In the second one, take the left
route, let yourself fall down,
continue by taking the route on
the right, fall down again and,
finally, take the middle route.
Third room, go around (be very
careful with the falling
objects) and take the upper left
exit. Rooms four and five, head
up, leave your character fall
down, and then go to the right.
Room six, take the path around,
but don't forget to grab the
Pichu on the lower right; after
grabbing him, continue heading
up, be sure to grab the Furret
on the right, and use it to
remove the debris in the next
room. Keep on going, you'll see
another cutscene and, very soon,
you'll be back outside, along
with an old friend. Your mission
will also end.



1.12~. (More) Walkthrough

Back to the village, call Entei
and head back to the house from
before, the one that was
originally on fire. After the
cutscene, got back to the old
man's house, the one which you
first visited in this whole
island, where your Pichu will
acquire an improved move, or
song, or whatever you wanna call
it. Follow the old man to the
island where all the Pichu used
to live, which you can do by
taking the boat nearby. After
the unusual "party" (.....), you
will be back to this island.
Make your way to the second
village, to the place where you
saw the ship before; there, when
you talk to the man and pick the
leftmost option, you will be
taken to another island, and a
new mission will instantly
begin.



1.13~. Seventh Mission

Just near the entrance you'll
have to fight an easy battle
against two enemies. Follow the
only possible path, capture the
Phanpy and use it in the rock
nearby. Capture the Donphan in
the lower area and use it on the
rock from the upper area. Take
the upper exit and you'll
quickly into another battle,
which is much easier if you
start by capturing the Numel,
before even focusing in the
Charmeleon. Continue walking,
but be warned that you can heal
yourself (and save your game) in
the cottage.

In the next area, grab a Shelgon
from the left side and use it on
the lower rock. Grab another
from the right side, and two
from inside the cave itself.
With those three Shelgon in your
party, go back outside and use
them to push the huge rock on
the left. Continue heading up
and you'll fight another battle,
this one against a Torchic and a
Combusken. Start with the little
fellow, before trying to capture
his evolution. Also, using a
water Pokemon, if you have one
with you right now, may also be
a good idea. Proceed by the
door. In the next room, take the
upper left exit, capture the two
Gastrodon inside and head back
to the room you just visited.
Use the two Gastrodon to get rid
of the of the flaming rock,
capture a Primeape and use it to
destroy the rock itself. Now,
before taking the upper exit to
this area, go get two more
Gastrodon.

Next, you'll have to fight a
Tyranitar. He'll start the
battle really angry, but if you
throw some water pokemon at him
(hence the required Gastrodon I
mentioned before) he'll easily
go down. Once you've defeated
him, save your game (yes, I
strongly suggest you do so) and
head to the upper left, where
you'll have to draw a sign in
the stone block. The sign, as
you probably noticed, is the
same that you use to summon
Entei, the one I'll draw below:

  |   |
 __|___|__
 \ |   | /
 \|   |/

Just draw it and the block of
stone will vanish. Press the
left option to step inside,
where you will have to fight two
Scyther (simple battle, just use
a fire Pokemon). Next, approach
the Staraptor, pick the left
option and you'll start flying.
You'll have to play the same
mini-game you saw in the
beginning of the game, simply
dodge the energy balls - it's
not that hard - and you'll soon
have a battle against several
Hoothoot and Noctowl, which you
can easily dispose of, as usual.
Another instance of the same
mini-game, followed by a battle
against several Pidgey and
Pidgeotto. Yet another instance
of the same mini-game, this time
against a stronger enemy, who
moves a lot faster. Fear not, do
the same thing as before, but
never stop moving around. Soon,
you'll face a boss battle, this
one against a Charizard. Now,
there's something you should
have in mind: since you're
having this battle while flying,
you can't summon any Pokemon to
help you, which makes this
battle slightly harder. Now,
simply try to encircle your
opponent as quickly - and as
many times - as possible, every
time he stops moving around.
When he starts quickly dashing
across the screen, lift your
stylus and wait for him to stop
it. Be very careful when signs
appear over his head, meaning
that he'll launch a powerful
attack. I consider this battle
to be sort of a "back to the
basics", and instead of even
attempting to do charged attacks
all the time, I suggest you
focus more on normal attacks,
and an occasional charged
attack.

Sooner or later you'll manage to
defeat this powerful foe (if
not, maybe you should head back
and get some level ups!), and
your mission will soon be over.



1.14~. (More) Walkthrough

Go back to the house which was
originally on fire, you will be
allowed to save your game. After
the update, step outside and
make your way to the second
village. On your way there, the
house that was previously locked
will be opened. Go inside,
you'll have to fight a Ledian.
Step back outside, capture the
Pelipper and the Ivysaur, use
them to open the container. Back
to the house from before, step
outside and capture the nearby
Staraptor. Fly your recently-
acquired friend to the sparkling
circle in the northern island,
which you can do by using your
stylus or with the normal
controls (advance by holding
"B").

Eventually, you'll have to fight
several Wingull and Pelipper,
but that's an easy battle. When
you finally land in the new
island, grab some of the new
Pokemon (if you want, obviously)
and proceed to the left. Save
your game and proceed to the
upper left house. Next, take the
upper route, and then the one to
the left. Call your Raikou, and
use it to jump to the other side
of the river. Proceed to the
left, jumping above the river
once more, be sure to capture a
Forretress, and continue
travelling by the only possible
path until you find a man who
will give you the next mission.




1.15~. Eighth Mission

Call your Raikou once more, and
use it to jump to the lower side
of the river. Go all to the left
and capture the Grotle. Use it,
along with the Forretress, to
tackle the block of stone
blocking your path. Go down and
you'll have to fight a Yanmega
and a Dodrio. There's a Ludicolo
on the room to the left, capture
it, and you should then proceed
to the right. Call your Raikou
once again, use it to jump to
the right, and then go down.
You'll be underwater, once
again.

Capture some of the new species
if you want, and head to the
lower left exit. You'll need to
capture two Gorebyss, but to do
that you'll need to capture two
Huntail first. Once you have
those Huntail, use them to
release the pillar in the upper
side of the room; only after
that should you try to grab the
Huntail, or you'll be in a wild
goose chase, unable to achieve
your objective for quite some
time. Once you have those two
pink fellows, use them to remove
the chains on the lower left,
and advance across the next
room. At the bottom, you'll have
to play the chase mini-game
again - do so - followed by a
battle against a Relicanth and a
Seadra. Start by defeating the
first creature, he is weaker,
and although the Seadra isn't
that strong, it may take you a
while to capture it, due to your
current options for backup
Pokemon.

After the cutscene you'll be
back in the surface. Capture the
Lombre, step outside by taking
the upper door, call your Raikou
and use it to travel to the
place you previously came from.
You'll see another cutscene.
Press the leftmost option and
you'll have to fight a Suicune.
Start slowly, using your Pichu
and drawing the usual circles,
until the enemy gets upset.
Then, wait for Suicune to
approach the bottom of the
screen, and summon your
Ludicolo, or a Lombre, which
will certainly cause heavy
damage to your current enemy.
Keep on repeating this same
strategy, from there on, and use
your Pichu as backup, too. Soon,
your enemy will be down, and you
will gain his symbol, the
following one:

  |  |\
__|__|_\
\ |  |
 \|  |

Sort of...? Anyway, summon your
Suicune right away, use it to go
back to the place where you just
saw the other man and your
mission will be over.



1.16~. (More) Walkthrough

Eventually, all the cutscenes
will end. When that happens, go
up, enter the cave and keep on
going up. You'll get another
mission.



1.17~. Ninth Mission

Follow the only possible path,
you'll quickly reach an area
which has several avalanches.
Use the protective stone blocks
to make your way to the upper
exit. There are several new
Pokemon in this area, you may
want to grab them. When you're
ready to proceed, take the exit
to the left, and keep on walking
by following the only possible
path (you can heal yourself and
save your game inside the hut,
if you want) until you see the
next cutscene, where you'll have
to fight three pokemon; leave
the Snubbull for last, and focus
on his two companions.

In the next area you'll find
some more avalanches. Proceed by
the center stone blocks and
you'll be fine, it's not that
hard, I can assure you. Next
room, you'll have to face three
other Pokemon. I strongly
suggest you start by capturing
the Raichu, before summoning
your Pichu for help with the
other two; leave the Empoleon
for last, since he has a lot
more HP, making him harder to
defeat. Capture two Monferno
from the upper right room, and
then use them to melt the ice
block in the upper left room.
Get a Lopunny from the previous
room (be sure to capture another
Monferno!) and use it to destroy
the rock blocking your path once
and for all. Next room, be
careful with the slippery floor,
and make your way to the upper
part of the room. You'll have to
fight a Infernape and a Glaceon,
none of which are all that
tough.

Save your game, be sure to have
at least one Empoleon in your
party, and then approach the
stone block. Draw Suicune's
symbol over there, that is, this
one:

  |  |\
__|__|_\
\ |  |
 \|  |

Press the option on the left to
enter the new room, this time
you'll have to fight a
Typhlosion. Start the battle by
encircling your opponent as
you'd normally do. When he
becomes all angry, call your
Empoleon; if done correctly, the
damage caused will be so big
that your opponent will fall out
of his anger right away.
Continue attacking normally, use
your Pichu for backup (remember,
he never suffers any damage, you
should use this to your
advantage) and call your
Empoleon (or more than one, if
you have them) whenever
possible. Your enemy will go
down sooner than later, and this
mission will also end.



1.18~. (More) Walkthrough

Go up and capture a Staraptor.
Fly him back to the house that
was originally on fire, and
enter it. You'll be able to save
your game. After the cutscene is
over, head back to the first
village's main square, just next
to the place where you first saw
a Celebi. You'll be taken to a
whole new area, and a small
puzzle will be seen in front of
your characters. The (very
simple) solution is:

   ____
   |  o|
   |_| |
 |
  S----

If you just can't get it, well,
starting from the lower left
square, you should go three
squares right, three squares up,
three squares left, two squares
down, one square right, one
square up, one square right.
Doing so will allow you to
proceed, and after the
performance your Pichu will
learn a new move/song/whatever.
Head back to the house which was
originally on fire and, after
the cutscene, grab a Staraptor.
Fly it to the northern island,
call your Suicune and head to
the water. Go all to the left
(to dodge the enemies you may
want to hit "Y") and then all
the way up. Leave the Suicune on
the left and proceed on foot
past the save point and behind
the waterfall. You will get a
new mission.



1.19~. Tenth Mission

Go up, and you'll soon have to
fight a Riolu. Using your Pichu
as backup, this ends up being an
easy battle. Continue walking to
the next room, visit the upper
left area for a Bastiodon, upper
right for a Magmar, and right
for a Haunter. Use this last
Pokemon in the cube placed in
the middle of this room, and
you'll then be able to proceed
by the door nearby. Inside,
you'll have to fight two Gabite,
a battle which is much easier if
you use your Pichu for backup,
as always. Focus on one of the
enemies until you manage to
defeat it, and then advance to
the other one, that seems to be
the best way to go, here.

After the battle, go down and
wait for the enemies to move.
When they do, head to the left
and up, then down, left and up.
Hide in the rightmost section of
the corridor, and after they
pass by your current position
head up and right. Ignore the
first room and enter the second,
before heading down and to the
right. Now, you'll fight a
Slowking, and I really doubt he
will give you much trouble.
Proceed to the right. On the
next room, press the yellow
button, follow the new path,
press the green button (NOT the
blue one!) and go to the upper
left corner of this room, where
you should press the blue
button. Go all the way down and
press the red button. Go down
and to the right, where you'll
have to fight four fossil
Pokemon, but just don't ask me
how the heck they all got here.
Oh, and this is a guide made by
Mykas0, by the way.

Keep on walking by the only
possible path, past the save
point and onto yet another new
room. There, you'll have to
fight four Claydol at the same
time, which is easier if you, as
usual, use your Pichu as backup.
Focus on one enemy at a time,
doing so will make this battle a
lot easier. Capture two Bronzong
and two Haunter in the rooms on
the left and right, and use them
to remove the cubes from the
middle door. Enter this door and
you'll have to fight four Magby,
followed by six Treecko, and
then eight Beldum. Despite their
numbers, these battles aren't
hard at all, and it's all a
matter of actually managing to
encircle your opponents when you
have the opportunity to do so,
and as quickly as possible.
Then, press the left option to
enter the upper door (you may
want to save your game before
proceeding, no?) and you'll face
another boss battle, this one
against a Garchomp. Overall,
this Pokemon isn't that strong,
but he is extremely fast, and
that may cause you some of
trouble. If you still have some
ice Pokemon with you, this may
be a good opportunity to use all
of them, since they cause extra
damage. You can also use
creatures that attack in a large
radius, such as Armaldo (there
was one in this same dungeon).
Your Pichu is especially
important here, since the final
hit of his combo may paralyze
your opponent for limited amount
of time, giving you more
opportunities to strike; for
that reason, be sure to use your
Pichu as often as possible! When
you, eventually, manage to
defeat this Garchomp, your
mission will end and you'll be
able to save your game.



1.20~. (More) Walkthrough

When you're ready to proceed,
step outside, grab a Staraptor
and use it to fly to the point
marked with a rolling circle.
You'll fight a bunch of Drifloon
and Drifblim, but they're pretty
weak. A bunch of Starly and
Pidgeot will follow, but they're
not very strong, either. Soon,
you'll see another rolling
circle; move there, press "Y" to
land and you'll see a cutscene,
after which your new mission
will begin.



1.21~. Eleventh Mission

Grab another Staraptor and make
it fly to the very first
location, the island where your
Pichu used to live. Approach the
beacon on the right and a
cutscene will unfold. You're
done here, grab another
Staraptor and head to the
southeastern island. To the left
of your initial position you'll
see another beacon. Approach it,
you'll have a battle against
three not-so-strong Pokemon (use
your Pichu and you'll do fine),
and after winning the battle
you'll be done here. Next,
capture another Staraptor and
fly it to the northern island.
When you reach this third town,
exit the main square by the
upper exit, and follow by taking
the upper left exit. Remember
the time where you jumped around
in your Raikou? Do that again,
either with a Raikou or a
Suicune, and near the upper left
corner of this area you'll find
the beacon you seek, together
with a battle against three
other Pokemon. You're done here,
too.

Next, grab another Staraptor and
fly to the northeastern island.
Unfortunately, you cannot land
there, so you'll have to fly to
the second village and talk to
your "old friend". By picking
the option on the left, he will
give you a ride over there, just
what you needed. Now, when
you're underwater, enter the
cave on the lower right, and
grab the Mantine from the room
on the right, and another
Mantine from the lower left. Use
them both to release the wires
on the right, and then proceed
by that new path, but not before
fighting a Tentacruel. Next
room, you'll have to play the
chase mini-game, once again,
before fighting a Kingdra.
Proceed to the left, to reach a
new area; here, you can find the
(final, if you've been following
what I'm telling you to do)
beacon you seek.

Afterwards, you'll be taken back
to the island you came from. Not
really a big deal, simply grab
another Staraptor and fly him to
the northwestern island. After
the cutscene, grab yet another
Staraptor and you will instantly
see a new cutscene, following
which you'll fight a Latios (or
a Latias? It seems to depend on
the sex of your character). This
Pokemon is not very strong, nor
does it have many powerful
attacks, but later in battle he
seems to protect itself with
three energy balls around him,
damaging your character if you
approach. Obviously, when that
happens you can simply sit back
and wait... for the rest of the
battle, simply be wary enough to
escape his normal attacks -
he'll stop moving, and quickly
show a symbol above his head -
and you'll do just fine. After
the battle, your mission will be
over, and you will get the
Latios sign, which is sort of
like this:

 \  /\  /
  \/  \/
  /\  /\
 /  \/  \
|   /\   |
|  /  \  |
| /    \ |
|/      \|

In case you're wondering, using
this symbol summons your
friendly Lations, who serves as
a free aerial transportation.
Plus, it can dash while in the
air (double-tap "Y"), and it has
an attack you can use during
aerial battles, as if it was an
aerial Pichu.



1.22~. (More) Walkthrough

First of all, summon Latios (or
Latias, it's the same thing!),
and you'll see a tutorial on how
to use him. So, move to the area
with the rolling circle and
press the option on the left.
You'll have to play a mini-game
where you dodge lightning bolts,
which is basically the same as
the one in which you dodged
energy balls. Oh well,
eventually you'll land and your
next mission will begin.



1.23~. Twelfth Mission

Enter the cave and keep on
walking until you reach a room
with two exits. Take the one in
the upper right and you'll have
to fight two weak Pokemon, as
many times before. Take the door
on the left (to dodge the bolts
simply step on the dirt, instead
of walking always on water) and
you'll fight a Piloswine,
followed by a Mamoswine. They're
both easy battles, but if you
want to have an even easier
time, try to bring a grass (or
water) Pokemon to this battle.
Here, take the room on the right
to capture a Hippopowdon, which
you must use in the previous
room to release the steel box
(or whatever that is...).
Capture the nearby Manectric,
and the Electivire (he is on the
upper right room), which you
should use in the strange
machine/box/whatever. You'll
have to fight a Jolteon, but
he's not that strong. Before
leaving the room, you might as
well go and capture another
Electivire, just in case!

Well, after leaving by the lower
left, keep on walking and you'll
have to dodge some more
lightning bolts; as before,
simply try to walk in the dirt
as much as possible and you'll
do fine. Next room, capture a
Gliscor (they seem to fall from
the ceiling) and use it to cut
the fence. You'll have to face
another battle, now against
eight Electrode. Use some sort
of ground creature as backup,
together with your usual Pichu,
and this turns out being easier
than you could be expecting.
Take the upper exit to the next
room, save your game (I strongly
suggest you have at least one
Piloswine in your party) and
interact with the stone block.
You'll need to draw a symbol,
it's Raikou's one, specifically
this one:

  |/
 /|
 / |
 /__|___
  |  /
  | /
  |/

Inside, you'll have several
battles. First, you'll fight two
Magneton and a Magnezone. In
second place, two Luxray.
Finally, you will have to fight
a Metagross, which is actually
the boss. Using a Piloswine
works extremely well against all
these enemies, and bringing more
than one here would be
incredibly helpful, so... if
you're having trouble with this
battle, that is something you
could try. However, there's a
catch, which can turn the
Metagross battle into something
a lot more difficult - after the
boss has become enraged, he'll
start using an attack that
literally strikes the entire
screen, and that instantly kills
your supporters. So, you should
start that boss battle by simply
using your Pichu, together with
your own circles around the
enemy. Next, when he becomes
enraged, continue using Pichu
BUT, when the enemy is already
performing another kind of
attack, different from the
"let's throw rays in every
direction" one, use one of your
Piloswine, and try to do some
quick circles around the
opponent. Also, your Pichu
should be CONSTANTLY used, since
he can't be harmed by the enemy,
as always, and that gives him
the advantage you may be needing
to defeat this boss.

Now, if you just can't complete
this boss battle, go back and,
apart from the Piloswine,
capture some Swinub too. Try to
upgrade your stats and get some
more levels, too... when you
finally manage to defeat this
Metagross, your mission will
end.



1.24~. (More) Walkthrough

Follow the guards inside the
building, and you'll have to
face a battle right away, this
time against a Torterra and a
Sceptile. This is much easier if
you start by taking care of the
Torterra, and then use your
Pichu (or some fire Pokemon) to
weaken your opponent. After the
battle is over, feel free to
grab some reinforcements from
the adjacent rooms, and proceed
by taking the middle door up.
Keep on going and you'll see an
unfrequent tea party taking
place, after which you'll be
able to save your game. When all
the cutscenes are finally over,
head back to the house which was
originally on fire and you'll
get another mission.



1.25~. Thirteenth Mission

Go back to the old man's house,
in the very first village. Enter
the house itself, and after the
cutscenes move back to the cave
you visited early in the game,
the one placed to the left + up
of the place where you first saw
a Celebi. Make your way to the
cave's upper right area, enter
the (previously locked) door,
and then approach the stone
block in the upper side of the
room; doing so will reveal a
secret door. Approach it and
pick the answer on the left to
proceed.

In the next room you'll have to
dodge enemy's attacks for one
minute. Even if you're hit
you'll be able to proceed,
provided you don't run out of
HP, and so, just try to dodge
them the best you can. Another
room, this time you have to
dodge the spikes while advancing
to the upper part, it's all a
matter of timing. Yet another
room, this one has a puzzle
similar to the one from before,
where you have to run across
every square on the board once.
This time, I won't show you the
solution, due to graphical
reasons, but I'll state what you
have to do, starting from the
down-middle square, the one with
the "circle": go left twice, up
twice, right, up, left, up,
right four times, down, left,
down, left, down, right, down,
right and, finally, up. If done
correctly, this will open the
door to the next room. Yet
again, this is a guide by M y k
a s 0...

Another room another puzzle,
this one with the classical
forwarding arrows. Start by
taking the second trail counting
from the left, followed by the
one on the middle right. Then,
take the ones up, left, upper
right and up, you'll then reach
the door. Inside, you'll have to
fight an Absol, who is just
another enraged random Pokemon.
Soon, you'll get the item you
seek, and you'll also see a
longer cutscene. Head back to
the second village, be sure to
capture as many water Pokemon as
possible, and then talk to your
"old friend" on the lower left,
following which you should pick
the option on the left to travel
to the sea.

Underwater, go all the way down
and a light pillar will show up,
followed by Ho-Oh, who you will
have to fight. Provided you have
several water creatures with
you, this battle isn't all that
hard. You should constantly call
your Pichu, and as soon as he is
available. When Ho-Oh stops, and
starts attacking with any attack
other than Fire Blast (the one
that makes five lines of fire
around him) use any water
pokemon to aid you. Continue
repeating and the enemy will go
down without much effort, mostly
since your water supporters will
cause a ton of damage. After the
battle, you will acquire Ho-Oh's
sign, which is ridiculously hard
to draw here (no, I won't);
start by one of the upper tips
and do all the star-like bit
without stopping, it's way
easier than it seems. Also, the
protective barrier around the
flying fortress will vanish,
meaning that you can finally go
there and kick some serious ass.
Oh, and your mission will end
soon after!



1.26~. (More) Walkthrough

Summon your Latios and head to
the flying fortress. When you
are approaching it, press the
option on the left to enter the
place itself, and you'll have to
play the mini-game where you
dodge energy balls for several
times. You will also have to
fight several Staravia and
Chatot, plus a few Skarmory.
When you finally reach the
place, your new mission will
begin.



1.27~. Fourteenth Mission

Start by heading to the room on
the right. Take both platforms
to the right, then the one on
the left, and the one in the
upper left. Capture the
Mismagius and go back to the
previous room. Now, take the
path to the room on the left.
Inside, take the second
teleporter you see, followed by
the one on the right and the one
on the right (yes, again) to
capture another Mismagius. Go
back to the previous room and
use both Mismagius to change the
statue and raise a platform.
Enter the new room and you'll
have to fight a Electivire and a
Magmortar; start with the first
one, he is easier to capture,
and then grab the second, with
some help from your Pichu. Take
the upper door and follow the
path to fight three Porygon-Z,
which are easier to defeat with
help from a Hitmonlee (there was
one in the first area, to the
right). Grab a few
reinforcements if you want, and
then take the upper door.

This new room contains several
powerful creatures, you may want
to capture them before heading
to the path on the left, where
you'll have to fight two Aggron.
Be sure to capture one
Toxicroak, and use it on the
cornerstone blocking your path.
You'll have to fight another
battle, this one against a
Gardevoir and a Gallade.
Continue walking and you'll soon
have to fight two Rhyperior,
which you can easily take down
by using the nearby Leafeon.
Continue walking and you'll have
to fight four Scizor at the same
time, which are easy to defeat
if you have a Gliscor in your
party. Grab some reinforcements
here and advance to the next
room. Now, you'll have to fight
three bosses before advancing to
the final one, in a sort-of-
predictable plot twist that
recalls me of "Megaman" games.

Start by the room on the left.
Take the exit on the left, keep
on walking until you're back in
this room. Press the lower
yellow button before taking the
upper exit. Grab the nearby
Froslass to get rid of the
cornerstone, and try to dodge
the spikes as much as possible.
You'll have to fight a Ditto
(nevermind the questions), a
fierce and powerful creature
that turns into Raikou, Entei
and Suicune, in that same order.
Obviously, you should try to
have a supporters that cover the
weaknesses of every of these
enemies, and constantly use your
Pichu for backup. When you're
done here, heal your character
(you can do it by talking to the
girl near the save point), grab
some more backup if you need and
then take head to the room on
the right.

Head to the upper right and your
Pichu will be kidnapped. Now,
you'll see four "?" boxes around
the room. Grab a Gardevoir or a
Mismagius, one at a time, and
use them to open the boxes
(apparently, the Pichu will be
on the lower right, but this may
be random...). After you recover
your precious friend, take the
upper right exit and you'll have
to fight a Crobat, but there's a
catch - you'll be flying! Well,
you don't have any backup, so
your only option is really
trying to encircle the enemy as
quickly as possible.
Fortunately, he isn't very
strong either, and so you can
simply go and draw your usual
circles when he isn't leaving a
trail of poison behind him.
After having defeated this not-
so-strong boss, heal your
character and take the upper
door. Guide by Mykas_0...

This time, defeat the main
enemies - the Probopass, the
Tangrowth and the Hariyama - and
step on the green teleporter. In
the next room, you'll have to
fight a Regigigas. As you'll
easily see, even by walking this
enemy can damage your party, and
so it'll be harder to capture
him. Use your Pichu as soon as
he becomes available, and as
often as possible. If you have
any supporters that can attack
from afar, such as Gardevoir or
Magmortar, use them. Also, to be
able to encircle the enemy on
your own you should wait for him
to stop (he does so every two
steps, at least early in the
battle) and quickly encircle him
twice or three times. I suggest
you shouldn't do that very
often, and instead focus on help
from your supporters, who should
always try to attack the enemy
from behind, since he can use a
powerful beam on the entire area
in from of him. After the
battle, you may want to re-enter
this room and grab some more
supporters, since they have
quite a few good ones in here.

Next, approach the lower door -
the one next to the save point -
and draw the symbol seen in the
upper screen. The door will
open; save your game, grab at
least one Houndoom and make your
way to the final boss (you have
to pick the left option to enter
the final room and face him),
who will use a Mewtwo against
you. Use your Pichu as quickly
and as often as possible, since
he may not only stun your
opponent but also cause a lot of
significant damage to him. Also,
try to use your Houndoom, along
with creatures that can strike
from afar against him, but don't
forget to place them behind the
enemy. Eventually, your opponent
will use a protective attack,
which doesn't seem to vanish.
Try to do larger circles around
him, but retain the strategy
stated above.

Once you finally manage to
defeat Mewtwo, you'll have to
fight him again, but he'll be
much stronger than before, and
he'll have a protective (and
damaging!) around around him.
Plus, not only he'll start using
attacks that strike most of the
screen, but he can also leave
shadows behind, which will later
attack you. As before, use your
Pichu as quickly and as
frequently as possible, and try
to use your supporters from time
to time, together with your
circles. If you just can't seem
to win, well, try to improve
your stats and get some more
levels on your character.

After the battle, the flying
fortress will fall down. When
prompted to do so, draw Ho-Oh's
symbol (you can check it by
pressing the upper left button)
and he'll stop the tower from
crashing. A longer cutscene will
take place, the credits will
roll and your game will be
automatically saved. Now, you
can reload this same savegame
and take all-new adventures,
which will be mentioned in the
next section.



2~. What now?

You just completed the game and
you've reloaded your savegame.
After the cutscene is over, step
outside and fly your Latios to
the third village, where a
cutscene will take place. You'll
be given a new mission, the one
of capturing the three legendary
birds; to do this, fly in your
Latios and look for the three
birds in the sky. Focus on one
of them and stalk them, dashing
your Latios onto them, until you
see a cutscene. Repeat for all
three birds, and then visit
their lairs (the fire, lightning
and ice dungeons you've seen
before) for some battles. Once
you've defeated all of them, go
back to the person who requested
this mission and it'll end.

Next, head to the top of the ice
mountain nearby and you'll have
to fight a Blaziken. Head back
to the house that was formerly
on fire and another cutscene
will take place. Complete Quest
11 (its content is stated in the
next section of this guide) and
fly to the northwestern island.
Walk slightly to the right and
you'll have to fight a Latias
(or a Latios, depending on the
sex of your main character) in
the air.

Afterwards, go ahead and capture
all the 300 Pokemon, for which
you must also complete all the
quests stated in the next
section (yes, some creatures are
exclusive to quests, such as
Ninetales or Togekiss). Once
you've seen/captured all 300,
come back to the house which was
originally on fire and a
cutscene will take place, where
you'll receive a whole new
quest. Grab some Dark (or Ghost)
Pokemon, head to the second
village and talk to the guy in
the lower left, before selecting
the left option. You will be
taken underwater.

Make your way to the lower part
of the cavern. You'll have to
fight some battles and face the
usual underwater chase mini-
game, but you'll soon reach a
place where you'll see one of
your enemies stuck below a rock.
She will soon retreat; follow
her back to the surface and
you'll have to fight a Lugia. If
you have any ghost (or dark)
Pokemon with you, this battle
ends up being a lot easier. As
usual, summon your Pichu as
quickly and as often as
possible. When Lugia stops in
the middle of the screen,
quickly call one of your
ghost/dark Pokemon so that it'll
receive as much damage as
possible. Also, try to encircle
him as quickly as possible, but
that shouldn't be a problem by
now, if you've been upgrading
your stats and getting as many
level ups as possible.

Eventually, after the battle
this last mission will end, and
so will this game's main
storyline. Fear not, you haven't
finished the whole game just
yet... you can now go and play
some Multiplayer Missions!



2.1~. Quests

Here, you'll be able to read
about where to get each of the
quests this game has to offer,
and an explanation on what you
have to do to complete each of
them. Apart from the first one,
which is part of the storyline,
these quests aren't required to
complete the main (i.e. pre-
credits) storyline, and
generally they give you new
Pokemon signs, or extra Trainer
Points.

------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

As part of the storyline.

----- What do you have to do?

As stated in the walkthrough,
"Talk to the man on the boat and
give him the left answer. You'll
be taken back to the first
island, go back to the place
where you started the game and
you'll have to fight six
Sunkern, which you can certainly
defeat without much effort. Go
back to the other island, once
more by taking the boat, and
talk to the man who requested
this quest".


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the village right of where
you fought a Celebi. Talk to the
girl in the blue dress.

----- What do you have to do?

Capture a Pachirisu and bring it
here.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Next to the place where you
fought a Celebi. Talk to the old
man.

----- What do you have to do?

You just have to destroy the log
blocking the path, in the forest
to your left, and then come back
here.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the village right of where
you fought a Celebi. Talk to the
guy with brown hair.

----- What do you have to do?

Enter the house nearby. Capture
the Geodude in the cavern all to
the left (yes, it must be that
one) and talk to the guy who
requested this quest. Be aware
that you'll need a true water
pokemon to awaken the Geodude.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the village where you fought
a Celebi, enter the house near
the beach and talk to the old
guy.

----- What do you have to do?

From the second village, go all
to the right (destroy the rocks
with your Entei) and continue
following the only possible
path. Just before the place
where you fought an Entei,
you'll see a lone tree. Hit it
and a fruit will fall. Take it
back to the old man.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the village where you fought
a Celebi, near the beach. Talk
to the guy with green shirt and
brown pants.

----- What do you have to do?

Take the Lapras underwater. Go
to the second screen and head to
the lower right, where you'll
see a sparkling Luvdisc.
Approach it, you'll have to
fight it and this quest will
end.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the very first village, visit
the house from Quest 4 and talk
to the old woman.

----- What do you have to do?

Approach the tower where you
fought a Raikou. Talk to the
lone man in the base.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From the guy you just visited,
in Quest 7.

----- What do you have to do?

Climb the tower nearby, and
follow it until you reach the
windy area. You will find a
Pidgey in the lower left,
approach it and you'll fight
three Pidgey, which will end
this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Second village, talk to the old
woman in the middle-right house.

----- What do you have to do?

Capture a Noctowl (there's one
near the mansion with all the
ghosts) and bring him back here.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the village where you fought
a Celebi, enter the house near
the beach and talk to the kid,
after completing Quest 5.

----- What do you have to do?

Enter the house that was
originally in fire. Afterwards,
leave it, take the path to the
left and go up for a cutscene.
Next, follow the path to the
right and you'll see another
cutscene. Go back to the place
where you saw the previous
cutscene and this quest will
end.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game, and
grabbing all the pieces of
armor, go to the house that was
originally on fire and talk to
the guy in a ranger suit.

----- What do you have to do?

Go to the haunted mansion's
basement and interact with the
second (from the right)
bookshelf. Come back to the guy
who requested this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From the kid near the old man's
house, in the first village.

----- What do you have to do?

Capture a Drifloon (or a
Drifblim) and bring it back
here. The best way to do this is
by roaming the skies near the
volcano and, later, talk to the
person in the white suit, from
the third village, who calls the
birds, with an empty slot in
your party.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Next to the place where you
fought a Celebi. Talk to the old
man, after you've completed
Quest 3.

----- What do you have to do?

After talking to the old man and
selecting the left option, chase
the Starly to the upper left
corner of the forest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game, and
grabbing all the pieces of
armor, go to the second village
and talk to the guy in the lower
left corner.

----- What do you have to do?

Return here with a Togekiss (you
can find it in the sky, after
taking Quest 39), a Honchkrow
(also found in the sky), a
Heracross (found near the place
where you fought the Suicune), a
Kabutops (found in the place
where you jumped around in Raiku
and Entei), a Probopass (found
near the place where you fought
Entei), a Cherrim (caught in the
place where you see a Venusaur,
use Suicune's Roar and he will
jump out of the flowers) and a
Quagsire (found in a small
island, to the right of the
haunted mansion, where you can
only get by using Suicune), all
at the same time.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the second village, this
woman is in the lower left
house.

----- What do you have to do?

Approach the haunted mansion
and, just near its door, head to
the left. You will have to fight
three Pokemon. After you've
defeat them, you'll also get
Mankey's sign, seen in the rock
nearby.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the second village, this
woman is near the upper right
corner, almost on top of a
wooden ceiling.

----- What do you have to do?

Go right, out of the village,
then right twice, and up, to
reach the ruins you've visted
before. Inside, follow the boy
around until you manage to talk
to him.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the beach from the very first
village, this girl in a blue
dress is in the upper left
corner.

----- What do you have to do?

Take the Lapras underwater. Go
all the way down and you'll have
to do a mini-game with the
Kingdra, and afterwards a
battle.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From a girl who is south of the
house which was originally on
fire.

----- What do you have to do?

Capture a Stunky, a Bibarel, a
Mothim and a Gible.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Guy near the entrance to the
ruins where you fought an Entei.

----- What do you have to do?

Locate a stray Vulpix inside the
ruins. After a battle, you'll
also get Vulpix's sign, as seen
in the rock nearby.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Guy inside the house, just near
the tower where you fought a
Raikou.

----- What do you have to do?

Locate some Beldum in this same
tower. You'll have to fight
them.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From an old guy, north of the
third village.

----- What do you have to do?

Bring him a Dunsparce (there's
one in the very first cave).


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Second village, the old woman in
the upper part of the village.

----- What do you have to do?

Find, and destroy, the three red
barrel-like traps placed in this
island. They're to the right of
the haunted house, all to the
right of this same village, and,
finally, in the place where you
jumped around with Raikou and
Entei. You'll need three Pokemon
that can use "Cut".


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From a man in the area to the
right of the second village.

----- What do you have to do?

Go up/right, to the area with
all the Dusclops, and capture
the Happiny who is nearby. Bring
it back to the man who asked for
this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In first village's main square,
from a kid on the right.

----- What do you have to do?

Go to the cavern you first
visited and capture the Croagunk
and the Bidoof. You'll also get
Bidoof's sign.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the second village, from the
woman in the upper right house.

----- What do you have to do?

Go the the haunted mansion,
capture the Purugly and bring it
back to the woman who asked for
this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Woman in the area right of the
second village.

----- What do you have to do?

Talk to her again, and pick the
option on the left. Chase all
the Buneary to the lower right
corner.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From a fisherman in the cliffs
to the left of the haunted
mansion.

----- What do you have to do?

From the second village, go all
to the right (destroy the rocks
with your Entei) and continue
following the only possible
path. Soon, you'll fight a
battle, and your quest will also
end.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game, and
grabbing all the pieces of
armor, go to the third village
and talk to the guy in the upper
left house.

----- What do you have to do?

Go back to the house that was
originally on fire. After the
cutscene, visit the monuments
for Entei and Suicune and
interact with the stone tablets
to fix them. As for Raikou,
start by visiting the top
mountain where Zapdos was; next,
go back to the very first cave
you visited and the tablet
inside will now be fixed.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Third village, from the old
woman in the upper right side.

----- What do you have to do?

Bring her a Ludicolo (there's
one in the ruins northwest of
this place).


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Third village, talk to the old
man in the upper right house.

----- What do you have to do?

Leave the house and make your
way all to the right. After the
cutscene, go to the lower half
of the pier and fight the
Sneasel.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Man placed to the right of the
second village.

----- What do you have to do?

Talk to him again, and defeat
his Hitmontop. After the battle,
you get Hitmontop's sign.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Second village, woman in the
middle of the place, the one
that previously prevented you
from entering the cave.

----- What do you have to do?

Enter the cave nearby. Pass by
the boulders by using your
Entei, then jump using your
Raikou, and soon after you'll
see a lone man. Talk to him,
complete the two battles and,
finally, head back to the woman
who asked for this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the dungeon where you first
saw an Articuno, this man can be
found inside a cottage.

----- What do you have to do?

Look around for a Ninetales and
bring it back to him.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Third village, old man in the
lower left house.

----- What do you have to do?

Bring him an Electivire, the one
from the place where you first
saw a Zapdos.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Third village, woman in the
lower right corner.

----- What do you have to do?

Go back to the second village
and talk to your "old friend" on
the lower left corner. Travel
underwater and make your way to
the lower section of the cavern.
After a pursuit mini-game,
defeat some enemies in battle.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the area north of the third
village, talk to the woman in a
pink shirt.

----- What do you have to do?

Look for a Vespiquen in the
areas to your left and capture
it.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From a man in the path between
the house that was originally on
fire and the second village.

----- What do you have to do?

Capture the two Graveler present
in an area nearby, and then
you'll have to fight a battle.
Afterwards, you'll get
Graveler's sign.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the very first area of the
volcano where you saw a Moltres,
this is the man in the green
shirt.

----- What do you have to do?

Talk to him again, and then
pursue Piplup to the lower left
corner.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the main square from the very
first village, talk to the woman
on the right.

----- What do you have to do?

Fly your Latios to where Pichu's
island originally was. Capture
the Togekiss that will appear.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Third village's pier, talk to
the fisherman.

----- What do you have to do?

Head to the place next to where
you first saw a Suicune and
you'll see a hole in the ground.
Enter it, travel underwater and,
after a mini-game, capture the
Lumineon. Come back to the man
who requested this.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

When you're in the second
village, talk to the boy on the
left.

----- What do you have to do?

Call your Entei, talk to the boy
again and pick the left option.
Destroy all the rocks in this
area and talk to the boy again.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From a woman placed to the right
of the long wodden bridge.

----- What do you have to do?

Go back to the first village and
talk to the man in the lower
right house, before coming back
to the same woman who asked for
this.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Near the place where you fought
a Suicune, you'll see this guy
in an explorer suit.

----- What do you have to do?

capture an Azumarill (there's
one near the huge waterfall) and
bring it back here.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

When you're in the second
village, talk to the boy on the
left after completing Quest 41.

----- What do you have to do?

Call your Entei, talk to the boy
again and pick the left option.
Destroy all the rocks in this
area and talk to the boy again.
You'll have to fight a battle.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

From the second village, travel
all to the right, in the back of
your Entei. Soon, you'll find
this guy, he has a green shirt
on.

----- What do you have to do?

Go up, onto the next area.
You'll have to fight a battle,
but you'll also receive the
Jumpluff sign.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the path where you jumped
around, using an Entei and a
Raikou, you'll find this man in
a green shirt.

----- What do you have to do?

Talk to him again and pick the
left option. Attract all the
Drifloon to a small peninsula
near the lower left. Then, two
battles will take place and this
quest will end.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

Near the place where you fought
a Suicune, you'll see this guy
in an explorer suit. Complete
Quest 43 before this one.

----- What do you have to do?

Go to the area behind the
waterfall and capture a
Floatzel. Bring it back to the
guy who asked for this quest.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game, talk
to the girl with blue hair
inside the house that was
originally on fire.

----- What do you have to do?

After talking to her again,
you'll have to play the energy
ball mini-game, and that's it.


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game and
getting all pieces of armor, in
the village where you fought a
Celebi, enter the house near the
beach and talk to the old guy.

----- What do you have to do?

You'll have to find six Pichu,
now spread all over the world,
and bring them back here, all at
the same time. In case you need
more help:

- The first is placed slightly t
   make him roar by press "Y", a
sign.

- The second is found in the bri
  fought Raikou.

- The third is near the exit to 
  hiding in a tree, so you may w
  down.

- The fourth is in the place whi
  the very end of that trail.

- The fifth is near the waterfal

- For the sixth, go to eastern i
  Latios again. As soon as you r
  and you'll soon be able to gra

Once you have all six in your
party, get back to the person
who requested this...


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

In the very first village, this
guy is in the lower right house,
after you have completed Quest
42.

----- What do you have to do?

Bring him, at the same time, a
Venusaur (you can find one in
the area to the left of the
house that was originally on
fire, take Suicune to the left
by the river), a Carnivine
(found near where you fought a
Suicune) and a Vileplume (near
the same place as the Carnivine,
but you'll need a very strong
fire Pokemon to awaken it).


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing the game and
getting all pieces of armor,
talk to the girl with blue hair
inside the house that was
originally on fire.

----- What do you have to do?

Bring her, at the same time, a
Manectric, an Electivire, an
Ampharos, an Electrode (all
these are found in the place
where you saw a Zapdos) and a
Jolteon (found on top of the
tower where you fought a
Raikou). By doing so, she'll be
able to build a machine that
makes it possible for you to
fight the bosses you've seen in
the past!


------------------------------  

----- Where do you get it?

After completing every other
quest, this person in a black
suit will be seen in third
village's pier.

----- What do you have to do?

You have to locate three "old
friends". If you need any help
finding them, you can read their
locations below:

- The first is in the ice mounta
  approach him and talk to him.

- The second is exactly in the l
  (and a Sneasel) to the areas t
  him, pick the option on the le
  also have to fight two Weavile

- The third one is in the area b

Get them all, in this very same
order, and the quest will end.

That's all for this section,
too...



2.2~. Multiplayer Missions

After you've met a Celebi,
you'll reach a part of the game
(I mentioned it above, in my
walkthrough) where you can take
multiplayer missions. To access
them, simply approach the place
where you first saw a Celebi,
interact with the stone shrine
and you'll be taken to the past,
where these missions take place.

Be aware that There's no real
online mode, and so you'd need a
friend near you to play them,
but... fear not, you can also
play most of them on your own!
To enter a mission, simply talk
to the person in front of door,
she will ask you to save your
game, and then you'll be able to
pick the mission you wanna take.
All missions are timed, and you
seem to get bonus for completing
them as quickly as possible. In
case you're wondering on what
you have to do for these
missions, well, they're all
composed by two parts, a first
one where you have to capture X
Pokemon, and a second one where
you have to defeat a boss.
That's basically it, most
missions are pretty simple, and
that's why I'm not going to give
you a walkthrough for this kind
of thing. Oh, and if you can't
seem to win a particular mission
(and believe me, that'll
happen!), just try to upgrade
the stats of your Pokemon, and
get some more levels in your
characters.



2.3~. Ranger Net

This option, now available in
the main screen, allows you to
download and play new missions.
After selecting the bottom
option from the main screen
you'll be shown the following
options:

Download Special Mission Play
Special Mission (If you've
already transfered at least one
mission) Transfer Pokemon (If
you've already completed at
least one mission) Wi-Fi
Configuration

I guess they're pretty explicit,
but there's also a point that I
should really clear up. There
are two kinds of missions that
you can download with this game,
single and multiplayer ones.
While the single ones can be
played here (you just have to
select the second option, choose
the mission itself and play it),
the multiplayer ones are
different. For those, you should
head to the in-game multiplayer
option (yes, the one I told you
about in the previous section of
this guide) and select them over
there, they will be shown on the
top sections of the listing,
above all the Multiplayer
missions that you can actually
play alone.

Now, below you'll see a listing
of the downloadable missions,
past and present, alongside with
information on their rewards and
what exactly you have to do in
order to complete them.

--------- Deoxys and the Mysteri

----- What's your reward?

One out of four possible Deoxys
forms, which you can later
transfer to the main games.

----- What do you have to do?

No clue. This requires (and I
mean it!) at least two players;
if you try to play it alone,
you'll soon reach a place where
you'd have to press two switches
at the same time, and you can't
do that alone.


--------- Protect the Legendary 

----- What's your reward?

A Manaphy Egg, which you can
transfer to one of the main
games and will later hatch into
a... Manaphy. Duh.

----- What do you have to do?

After selecting this mission
you'll see a cutscene where the
egg is taken away. You'll have
to fight a Poochyena, and
afterwards the mission will
oficially begin. A Lapras will
take you underwater, as before.
Start following the bad guy to
the bottom part of the sea and
you'll soon have to fight a
Carvanha. The bad guy will
retreat but he will also drop
the egg, meaning you'll have to
play an underwater chase mini-
game to recover it. Soon, the
Manaphy Egg will be brought back
to the beach, and you'll get to
keep it as the mission ends.


--------- Investigate the Myster

----- What's your reward?

An Heatran, which you can
transfer to one of the main
games.

----- What do you have to do?

After selecting this mission
you'll see a cutscene.
Eventually, you'll be taken to
the volcanic area that you've
(probably) visited before. Make
your way to the upper part of
the volcano, but you can capture
some of the nearby creatures if
you want. Along the way, you'll
have to fight two Charmeleon,
and later pursue four Bidoof
until they reach their owner.
After having seen a Heatran
twice, take the upper left exit
in the next room (the one with
three exit, plus the place you
came from) and be sure to
capture some water pokemon.
After doing so, go back to this
area and, this time, take the
upper exit. Very soon, you'll
reach the place where you first
saw a Moltres, and that's
exactly where you'll have to
fight the Heatran you've just
seen.

Against this Heatran your best
bet is certainly using all the
water Pokemon you've captured
before. He isn't all that
strong, if you've properly
levelled up your character, and
with help from your Pichu
(remember, he never takes any
damaged) and your own water
Pokemon this battle won't be
that hard. Just be careful with
the lava circle that, from time
to time, your enemy will create
below him; although it doesn't
cause that much damage, it'll
make it a lot harder for you to
even attempt to capture him.
When that happens, I suggest you
simply lift your stylus and try
to attack the Heatran with your
water creatures from far away.
Sooner than later, if you're
strong enough, this enemy will
go down.

Soon after you've captured
Heatran, a longer cutscene will
take place, and then this
mission will be all over.


--------- Protect the Lost Shaym

----- What's your reward?

A Shaymin, which you can
transfer to one of the main
games.

----- What do you have to do?

After the initial cutscene, take
the exit to your left. Follow by
looking for Shaymin around, that
Pokemon will be hiding in the
bushes and you'll only be able
to see its upper flowers (in my
case, he was just near the upper
left bit of the bridge). Capture
the nearby Pokemon, just in
case, call your Suicune and take
the river to your right, to the
area filled with flowers. Now,
you'll have to fight Shaymin.
It's not that strong, just be
careful with the randomly-
located spikes that it tends to
summon from time to time.

After the battle is over, a
bunch of enemies will show up
and Shaymin will change its
form. You'll fly in your Latias,
in which you'll also have to
play the energy ball dodging
mini-game twice, followed by a
battle against Shaymin's other
form. Using Latias' support, you
can simply charge your stylus
(hold it for a while before
starting to encircle your
opponent) and attempt to capture
this enemy as quickly as
possible. Since you'll be
flying, it's not like you can go
and ask for anyone's support...
if this battle just turns out
being too difficult for you,
maybe you should go and give
your character some more level
ups. After the battle, this
mission will also be over.


--------- Giratina's Griseous Or

----- What's your reward?

Girantina will be added to your
game's Ranger Dex.

----- What do you have to do?

After the initial cutscene, pick
the option on the left and
you'll be taken to an area that
you've (possibly?) seen before.
Grab the nearby Raichu and the
Umbreon, before taking the upper
door; you may want to explore
the areas nearby for a bunch of
powerful Pokemon. When you're
ready to proceed, take the
middle door all the way up and
you'll soon have to fight a
Girantina. She isn't all that
tough if you have already
completed the main storyline,
and by using your Umbreon for
backup you'll make this battle
even easier. Soon afterwards,
this mission will oficially
begin.

Take the lower exit and head
back to the place where you've
captured the Raichu and the
Umbreon. This time, take the
lower exit and follow the only
possible path to the left. In
the area with the brownish
floor, take the exit in the
middle of the room (it's sort of
hard, but try to understand the
movements of all enemies and
you'll do fine), and the exit to
the right in the next one. After
the cutscene, you'll be taken to
another place; there, take the
upper exit and you'll have to
fight two Magnezone, following
which you'll be taken, once
more, to the area you were just
in. After the new cutscene, go
back to the place where you
first fought a Girantina, and
that Pokemon will soon change
its form, leading to a whole new
boss battle. The battle is as
easy as before, provided you use
backup from your Pichu and your
Umbreon. After the battle, this
mission ends.


--------- Arceus' Pledge -------

----- What's your reward?

Girantina, Dialga, Palkia and
Arceus will be added to your
game's Ranger Dex.

----- What do you have to do?

As part of the initial cutscene,
your mission will quickly begin.
Take the lower exit and follow
the only possible path until you
reach a room with four exits.
Follow the one on the left for a
battle with Girantina (easy if
you take a ghost Pokemon, such
as Gengar, with you). Then, take
the upper one; defeat some of
the enemies to make two buttons
appear, which you should press
to open a green portal. Take it
and head up, to a place where
you'll have to fight a Dialga.
Sure, he teleports around from
time to time, but since he tends
to attack whatever's in front of
him, try to use some fighting
Pokemon as backup from behind,
and you'll do fine.

Next, take the door to the
right, and make your way to the
upper right, where you'll have
to fight a Palkia. Attack from
behind, as you did before, but
you can also use a Tangrowth as
backup (remember, there was one
just before Dialga's room).
After this battle, go back to
the place where you began this
mission, pick the option on the
left and, after a long cutscene
and some potential spoilers,
you'll finally have to fight
Arceus. His biggest strenght is
certainly the fact that he will
almost constantly summon a
protective spell, which rounds
him and damages you if you try
to quickly encircle him.
Nevertheless, if you have some
fighting Pokemon with you, their
help is more than welcome;
besides, your Pichu should here
be used as quickly (and as
frequently) as possible, since
he just can't suffer any damage.
Keep on fighting, drawing larger
circles whenever the enemy has
the protection around him and
quickly encircling him whenever
he loses that spell, and you'll
eventually manage to win this
battle, which also leads to the
end of this mission.

That's all for this section,
too...



FAQ~. Frequently Asked Questions

Here, you will be able to read
about some of the questions that
people may be wondering about
this game, at least if I
consider them to be slightly
important.

Q: Are pokemon an it/she/he ?

A: Haven't got a clue, and
that's probably one of the major
problems in
   this guide, as I don't usuall
   just go and call them whateve


Q: Why is it that you're always
talking about a Latios? I have a
Latias!

A: This depends on the sex of
your main character. If you
picked the guy,
   like I did, you'll start by g
   you'll get a Latias, and you'
   your selection, later you'll 
   apparently you can only fly a
   character.


Q: Where do I find [insert
Pokemon (minus Honchkrow and
Togekiss) here] ?

A: Seriously, don't ask me about
this sort of thing. While I
included that
   sort of information in my gui
   decided against doing so. If 
   to http://www.serebii.net and


Q: Honchkrow and Togekiss sure
are fast. Do you have any tips
you can give
   me, on how to capture these P

A: Actually, I do. Before
starting to draw the Latios
sign, power charge
   your styler. By doing so, the
   Pokemon you summon will usual
   easier for your Latios to rea


Q: How do I add flying (as in,
flying IN THE SKY) Pokemon to my
party?

A: To do that, you first have to
fly (either in a Honchkrow or a
Lati@s)
   up in the sky and complete a 
   your party. Then, visit the p
   the third village's pier and,
   your party, you'll be shown s
   battled. Choose the one you w
   party right away.


Q: What is [insert Ranger Sign
here] for?

A: This game presents you with
four different kinds of signs.
The first
   merely summons a creature tha
   Suicune and Latios/Latias). T
   you fought that same creature
   (the case of Ho-Oh, Articuno,
   type simply summons a particu
   companion, as if you had caug
   kind of sign simply brings yo
   Missions to the real world.


Q: Hey, why don't you tell us
about all the Ranger Signs?

A: Mostly because this is simply
a walkthrough, it's not supposed
to cover
   all the aspects of the game. 
   required to complete the game
   walkthrough.


Q: Why don't you state the names
of each area, instead giving
references
   to their characteristics?

A: I wrote this guide based on
the Japanese version of "Pokemon
Ranger:
   Hikari no Kiseki", and it is 
   changed in the Western releas
   a bunch of details when the g
   to include only the names of 
   and rely on reference points 
   perfect, but this way I'm cer
   talking about, when I give di


Q: Is it possible to fight
against a particular boss again?

A: Yes, it is. After completing
Quest 51, you gain access to a
machine
   that allows you to replay bat
   find the boss you seek in the
   three legendary birds, Ho-Oh 
   place where you first fought 

You can also contribute your own
questions, if I find them
relevant enough I will add them
to this section.



ST~. Special Thanks

I want to thank the following
people:

- Everyone who made this game;

- http://www.serebii.net , for s

- goldenix_, for information on 

- kiera2, for some help concerni

- Everyone who likes my works, i
  in this type of project.



EN~. Contacts

BEFORE MAILING ME BE SURE TO
READ THE WHOLE FAQ, since your
question may already be covered
in there. My e-mail is Mykas0
[at] gmail.com , use the
following subject or I will
NEVER (AND I MEAN IT!) reply
back to you:

Subject: "PR3 FAQ"

You should use it for asking
anything or giving me more info
for this faq, obviously I will
credit you!

Thanks and until a next version!