=================
RESIDENT
  EVIL:
DEADLY SILENCE
=================
Nintendo DS/ Full
FAQ/WALKTHROUGH By Brandon
Guerrie Email:
brandon_guerrie@yahoo.com

<C>COPYRIGHT 2006
Gamefaqs,Brandon Guerrie ALL
RIGHTS RESERVED. -Any questions
about posting thi me first!

*Special note to gamefaqs: My
former contribute name was
snk202. I written two faqs in
the past, but I have a new
professional name and like to
use this name instead. Glad to
be back and thank you.

=============
TABLE   of
CONTENTS
============

[1]VERSION HISTORY
[2]INTRODUCTION
   {A}GAMEPLAY TACTICS
   {B}DIFFERENCE IN VERSIONS
   {C}THE CHARACTERS
[3]GAME CONTROLS [4]MIXING HERBS
[5]COMPLETE WALKTHROUGH
REBIRTH/CLASSIC, JILL & CHRIS
   {A}THE MANSION
   {B}COURTYARD
   {C}GUARDHOUSE
   {D}RETURN TO MANSION
   {E}BACK TO THE COURTYARD
   {F}UNDERGROUND AREA
   {G}SECRET LAB
[6]THE ENDINGS
[7]COMPLETE ITEM LIST
[8]WEAPON ARSENAL
[9]ENEMY ANAYLISIS
[10]FILE LOCATIONS
[11]GAME SECRETS
[12]MASTER OF KNIFING GUIDE
[13]MUILT-CARD PLAY TIPS
[14]FINAL WORD

=======================
[1]   VERSION HISTORY
=======================

Version 1.0- 3/26/2006: Began
the faq. Finished Information,
version history, mixing herbs,
game controls.

Version 2.0- 3/27/2006: Began
the walkthrough, part A, B, and
C completed.

Version 3.0- 3/28/2006:
Continued and finished the
walkthrough.

Version FINAL-3/29/2006 Finish
everything and fixed all the
loose ends. Complete.

====================
[2] INTRODUCTION
====================

----------------------
{A}GAMEPLAY TACTICS
----------------------

-Save Often. There are ton of In
versions of the game, and I
mention quite often when to save
 in the walkthrough. If you comp
 long way through the game and s
(like i did), you have to
complete it all over again.

-Save Ammo? Not neccessarily. If
ammo is much more abundant then
the Classic mode. You will be
blasting enemies since there are
more in the new version. In
Classic mode, you should be a
little more careful with
ammunition and run past enemies
when you can, which isn't that
often.

---------------------------
{B}DIFFRENCE IN VERSIONS
---------------------------
-REBIRTH MODE- The new Rebirth
mode adds some new elements of
gameplay that uses the Nintendo
DS features. In Rebirth Mode
there are more enemies, puzzles,
ammo, and healing items. Some of
the new features include:

1.KNIFE FIGHTS Throughout the
game you will encounter a first
person view fight that involves
only the Knife and certain
enemies. Use your DS pen to drag
it across the bottom touch
screen and move accordingly.
Drag it up
 to slash
up, down to slash down, left for
left and of course right for
right. To slash straight just
"poke" the screen with the pen.
You can also get *critical hits
which does a lot more damage
then the normal slash in the
fight. To perform this you need
to attack with the knife right
before the enemy is about to hit
you (like in your face, last
minute). Here is a quick
overview for the enemies in the
Knife Fights:

ZOMBIES: If you up against more
then one, slash across the
screen for multiple damage.
Critical hits are easy to
perform here, seen they are slow
in moving. When they go to vomit
on you, blow into the Mic to
give it right back.

CROWS: Slash straight for a
quick stab. They only take one
hit to go down every time.

DOGS: The hardest of the bunch,
you are forced to get a critical
attack to take them out. Slash
in any direction right after
they howl and jump at you.

HUNTERS: Hunters aren't that
hard unless your faced with more
then one on the same screen. To
get a critical hit, slash right
after they "pose"
 the arm up in the air. Sometime
 which leads you to slash them r
will know this if they jump back
and do they're annoying scream.

2.Puzzles Most of the puzzles in
the Rebirth mode can be solved
by the touch screen and Mic).
They are detailed in the
walkthrough.

3.The DS Mic Use the Mic to blow
out candles and zombie vomit in
the game. Cool, eh?


-CLASSIC MODE- The Classic Mode
concentrates on the original
game that came out for the PS1,
with standard game play. In
Classic mode, there are less
puzzles, less ammo, and less
enemies to worry about. For all
enemy strategies look in the
Enemy Analysis section.

--------------------
{C}THE CHARACTERS
--------------------
Just like the original game, you
have the choice of playing as
Chris Redfield or Jill
Valentine. Below is a quick
overview of the two, and the
advantages and disadvantages of
each.

JILL VALENTINE -If it's your
first time playing Her adventure
is a heck of a lot easier then
Chris'.

+THE GOOD+
-More Ammo
-More Ink Ribbons
-Has the Lock pick
-Barry helps her out
-Gets the Bazooka

-THE BAD-
-Takes a lot more damage then Ch

CHRIS REDFIELD -Chris is set for
the more diffi track and mess
around more then Jill. Use him
if you played Resident Evil
before.

+THE GOOD+
-Has more strength then Jill
-Rebecca can heal him sometimes



  -THE BAD-
-Holds only six item slots in in
-needs Small Keys to unlock simp
-doesn't get the Bazooka
-less ammo


=================
[3]   GAME
  CONTROLS
==================
The controls are pretty much the
same from the original version
of the game. The A, B, X, and Y
buttons are a replacement from
PS1's original controller.

UP:
Move forward/aim up/select up.

DOWN: Move backwards/aim
down/select down.

LEFT:
Move Left

RIGHT:
Move Right.

B: Fire Weapon/Action
Button/Open doors/select item.

A:
Turn around/cancel.

X:
Cancel.

Y:
Reload/cancel.

L:
Aim Knife.

R:
Aim Weapon.



===============
[4]  MIXING
  HERBS
===============
If you played any Resident Evil
game before, you should know all
about mixing herbs in the game.
If you haven't, use this below
for a reference in what to do
with what. A herb heals your
health (or cures poison), and
his beneficial through out the
game. You can combine certain
ones in the item menu for a
better result.

1. GREEN HERB: Cures a quarter
   of your health.
2. GREEN HERB + GREEN HERB:
   Cures roughly half your
   health.
3. GREEN HERB + GREEN HERB +
   GREEN HERB: Cures your health
completely.
4. RED HERB: Useless alone.
5. RED HERB + GREEN HERB: Cures
   your health %100.
6. BLUE HERB(x1): Cures any
   poison status.
7. GREEN HERB + BLUE HERB: Cures
   a quarter health and
poison.
8. GREEN HERB + GREEN HERB +
   BLUE HERB: 50% health and
poison.
9. RED HERB + GREEN HERB x BLUE
   HERB: Cures all health and
   poison.


=======================
[5]   COMPLETE
  WALKTHROUGH
=======================
*This walkthrough covers all ver
Rebirth, Jill & Chris) since all
versions are have close
resemblance. I mention any
notifications that relate to the
exclusive version, and
capitalized items and such for
noticeable
 purposes.

*Knife Fights only occur in Rebi

 Enjoy!

-----------------
{A}THE MANSION
-----------------
-Head into the Dining Room and e
around the hall to encounter
your first zombie. JILL: Either
take it out or run back to
Barry. Return to the main room
and search for Wesker. Barry
will give you the LOCKPICK).
CHRIS: Go back to the main room
and pick up JILL'S HANDGUN.

- Pick up the INK RIBBONx3 near 
to the zombie hallway. Examine
Kenneth's body twice for HANDGUN
BULLETSx30. From the main room,
enter the east double doors.
(REBIRTH: Here you'll face your
first Knife Fight). Grab the 1ST
FLOOR MAP by pushing the corner
shelf out of the way and the
step ladder on the left side of
the statue. In the curtain
hallway to the left, zip past
the zombies and take the INK
RIBBONx3 on the shelf.

-Return to the main room and go
south east door (CHRIS: Pick up
the SMALL KEY). Enter the door
and be faced with Forest from
the Bravo Team. (JILL: Barry
will give you the BAZOOKA). Head
back to the main room and go
through the west door on the
second floor.

-In the upper part of the Dining
and or crow, and be faced with a
simple puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Push the statue off the
balcony far the open railing
part so it falls to the first
floor. You will pick up this
item shortly.
--------------------------------

-Open the door on the other side
zombies and maybe a crow. Walk
down the stairs and enter the
save room nearby (in Rebirth
Mode watch the dogs that crash
through the windows). (CHRIS:
Here you'll meet Rebecca
Chambers of Resident Evil 0
fame. She'll be quite helpful.
Make sure you say NO when she
asks to come with you. Take the
MANSION SWORD KEY off the bed).
(JILL: Take the INK RIBBONx3
from the bed). Store some stuff
and make sure to bring the Sword
Key with you if you're Chris. If
you're playing the Rebirth
version, you'll be faced with
your first Box Puzzle.
--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY* The key
here is to highlight the two
circle colors in the correct
order so they match up together
accordingly. Jill and Chris' are
different, so here are both
solutions:

JILL:

1.Select E and D.
2. B and D.
3. D and C.
4. E and A.
   (A)

  {E}    {B}

  {D} {C}

ITEM: RED HERBx1

CHRIS:

1.Select B and D.
2. D and A.
3. E and C.


   (A)

  {E}    {B}

  {D} {C}

ITEM: SHOTGUN SHELLSx7
--------------------------------

-Exit and go down the hall being
or dogs. Open the door at the
end and head south passed the
zombies. Use the Sword Key or
the Lock picks on the door on
the side. Inside, find HANDGUN
BULLETSx15 on bed. Examine the
desk for a zombie to come out of
the closet. After taking it out,
take the SHOTGUN SHELLSx7 and
the KEEPER'S DIARY on the desk.
Leave the room and unlock the
next door.

-Track west and unlock the red d
doors. Push the shelf in the
back of the room to get the
MUSIC NOTES off the shelf. Use
them on the Piano to raise a
passage on the wall (if you’re
Chris, Rebecca will come in and
practice for awhile, so come
back after completing the next
three puzzles coming up). Here
you'll be faced with a simple
puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Find the EMBLEM hanging
above the fireplace in the
Dining room on the first floor.
Take it and replace it with the
GOLD EMBLEM you pick up. This
will raise the wall back upto
let you out.
--------------------------------

-Head back to the dining room an
Emblem where you got the regular
for another puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Depending on what
version you're playing, this
situation will be different.

CLASSIC VERSION: Once you place
the Gold Emblem, the clock will
move revealing the SHEILD KEY
behind it.

REBIRTH MODE: Using the touch
screen, rotate and set the clock
to exactly 3 to get the SHEILD
KEY.
--------------------------------

-Find the BLUE JEWEL from the br
pushed off earlier, then return
to the hallway with the zombie
in the closet. Here you can find
a room with a tiger statue, and
place the blue jewel in one of
its eyes to obtain the WIND
CREST.

-Go back to the room where you g
the right door. In the hall,
watch out for the dogs that jump
through the windows. You can
find HANDGUN BULLETSx15 by
pushing the second shelf, then
open the door at the end. Run by
the rusty door (you'll come
back), and enter the first door
you see into the bathroom. Take
the HANDGIN BULLETSx15 in the
sink (watch the zombie in
Rebirth). If your Chris, take
the SMALL KEY in the tub.

-Continue down the hall and ente
at the end (the door nearby
contains the SHOTGUN, but you
need to come back with the
Broken Shotgun to get it). You
will encounter another Knife
Fight if you're laying the
Rebirth adventure and zombies
afterward. Proceed to the door
on the far left for the next
puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? The key here is to hit
the switches on the pictures in
the correct order. If you screw
up, run out and renter or else
you will be crow meat. Here is
the correct order: 1.New Born
Baby 2.Infant 3.Lively Boy
4.Young Man 5.Tired-Middle Age
Man 6.Bold Looking Old Man.
After hit the switch on the
picture entitled "end of life."
Take the STAR CREST.
--------------------------------

*If you're playing as Chris don'
back to Rebecca and solve the
two puzzles above.

-Exit and enter the grey door ne
zombies; grab the GREEN HERBx1
next to the stairs, and enter
the save room. Pick up the
CHEMICAL on the ground and store
some stuff. If your playing
Rebirth, you can solve your
second box puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY*

JILL:

1. A and B.
2. A and E.
3. D and C.
   (A)

  {E}    {B}

  {D} {C}

ITEM: RED HERBx1

CHRIS:

1. A and E.
2. D and E.
3. D and C.


   (A)

  {E}    {B}

  {D} {C}

ITEM: FIRST AID SPRAYx1
------------------------------

-Head back to the tiger statue h
chemical and go into the south
east room on the other end. Use
the Chemical on the water pump
to kill off the plant fountain,
and pick up the MANSION ARMOR
KEY as well as GREEN HERBx4 and
RED HERBx2. Afterward, go to the
save room hallway nearby and
unlock the door with the Armor
Key. Take the BROKEN SHOTGUN,
HANDGUN BULLETSx15, and SHOTGUN
SHELLSx7 in the desk (Jill will
use the lock pick, Chris needs a
small key).

-In the main room of the mansion
East door on the first floor.
Get the HANDGUN BULLETSx15 on
the dresser, and unlock the desk
with the lock pick or a small
key for SHOTGUN SHELLSx7. Watch
the zombie and go through the
east door. Run past the zombie
in this room and pick up the INK
RIBBONx3 and GREEN HERBx2. It's
time to head to the east area of
the first floor (on your way, be
aware of numerous Knife Fights
in Rebirth).

-Remember the rusty door you pas
it now and blast the dogs around
here. At the end you can find
GREEN HERBx6! Back in the
hallway, unlock the door next to
the double set of doors. In here
pick up the SHOTGUN of the wall
and replace it with the Broken
Shotgun. With both Mansion Keys
in hand walk up the stairs and
pump the zombies full of lead.
Unlock the south door into the
next hall, and find the BOTANY
BOOK in the west room. Unlock
the door and you end up back in
the hallway. Use the Armor Key
on the door on the side
(sometimes there is a zombie in
here), and go in the west room.
Grab the LIGHTER on the shelf,
HANDGUN BULLETSx15 and RED
HERBx1 on the left and right of
the bed. In the east room(Jill
will encounter Barry) get
RESEARCHER'S WILL on the desk
and INK RIBBONx3 on the wall.
Check out the bug panel and hit
the switch to drain the water
tank. Push the water tank right
and the other shelf right to
find either EXPLOSIVE ROUNDSx6
or SHOTGUN SHELLSx7.

-Head out and enter the east end
GREEN HERBx1 and use your
Lighter on the stove to get the
MAP OF THE 2ND FLOOR. Wrap
around the next hallway (watch
zombies) and use the key on the
double green doors.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE?

REBIRTH MODE: Use the touch
screen to balance the jewels on
the scale. This is different
depending who you are playing
as.

CHRIS:

Red, Red, Green Blue & Yellow
--------------__________________



JILL:

Blue, Red, Green Green & Yellow
--------------__________________

CLASSIC MODE: Push the two
statues onto the circle vents on
the floor so they cover them
completely. Then, hit the switch
on the center tile to open the
cabinet.

----------------------------

-The prize is the SUN CREST. Lea
door. Take the GREEN HERBx2 and
encounter Richard. In Rebirth,
Jill will have to give him CPR
through the DS Mic. Just
steadily breathe and eventually
you will save him. Here he'll
tell you to set the clock at
8:12(SHOTGUN SHELLSx7 is the
reward). In Classic, Jill will
have to head all the way back
west save room and grab the
CHEMICAL off the shelf. Either
way, he still dies and it was a
waste of time or breath. Check
out his body for HANDGUN
BULLETSx15. Open the door next
(watch the zombies) and pass the
bloody door first. In the dark
room, Jill can pick up an INK
RIBBONx3 on the table. There's
also HANDGUN BULLETSx15 in the
corner cabinet. Use the Lighter
on the candle and find ACID
ROUNDSx6 or SHOTGUN SHELLSx7.
Use the Shield Key on the
bloodstained door but don't
enter without saving and
equipped with the Shotgun. Thus
you'll be prepared to fight the
Giant Snake.

--------------------------------
BOSS! GIANT SNAKE
HITS: 4-5 Hits w/ Shotgun

The best thing to do is shoot
the snake, then run across the
room, then shoot again. Don't be
ashamed if you get hit, it's
hard to dodge its attacks. If
you happen to get bit, you
instantly be poisoned, and
you'll watch a scene afterward.
Jill will have to run all the
way back to the west save room
to use the Serum, and Chris
collapse and Rebecca will
automatically help him out.
--------------------------------
-After the fight, make sure to t
the snake leaves, as well as the
SHOTGUN SHELLSx7 on the barrel.
Take all the Crests to the
northwest area on the 1st
floor(in Rebirth mode there will
be dogs and crows)and place them
onthe panel to unlock the door.

-----------------------
{B}COURTYARD
-----------------------

In the shed, push the step
ladder towards the shelf and
find the CRANK up top. Chris can
take the SMALL KEY on the
barrel. Enter the double doors
(have a Knife Fight), and fight
off the dogs and maybe spiders.
Pick up RED HERBx2, GREEN HERBx2
or BLUE HERBx2. Go west and find
the MAP OF GARDEN on the wall.
In the North gate use the Crank
to drain the water, letting you
cross. Run quickly, because
small snakes will drip down on
you and poison you if you make
contact (there's a zombie on the
ground in Rebirth). Go down the
elevator and take down the dogs.
Open the west gate and pick up
RED HERBx2 and GREEN HERBx2 or
BLUE HERBx2. Fight some dogs and
maybe a crow and go through the
door at the end into the
Guardhouse.

-------------------
{C}GUARDHOUSE
-------------------

-Get the GREEN HERBx1 and BLUE H
on the right, find HANDGUN
BULLETSx15 or EXPLOSIVE
ROUNDSx6, and a FIRST AID
SPRAYx1.

------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY*

JILL:

1. A and C.
2. E and C.
3. B and D.
4. D and F.
   (A)

  {F}    {B}

  {E}    {C}

   {D}

ITEM: SHOTGUN SHELLSx7

CHRIS:

1. E and C.
2. B and D.
3. A and D.
4. E and B.


   (A)

  {E}    {B}

  {D} {C}

ITEM: SHOTGUN SHELLSx7
-----------------------------
-Equip the Shotgun or Bazooka, a
red doors in the hall. Blast the
two spiders and get the HANDGUN
BULLETSx15 on barrel and INK
RIBBONx3. If your Jill, examine
the pool table to find a dial
clock code: 345 or 1245.

-Back in the hall, enter the nor
In the bathroom, watch for
spiders or zombie and unplug the
tub for the CONTROL ROOM KEY.
Continue in the room (there may
or may not be zombies in here)
and take the RED BOOK on the bed
and unlock the desk with small
key or lock pick for SHOTGUN
SHELLSx7. Chris can find a SMALL
KEY in the small cup in the
corner. When you leave (you'll
be treated to a Knife Fight)
push the statue so it covers the
hole on the floor and enter the
south door. If you’re playing
Rebirth, there are two super
fast zombies in here, so take
them down fast. Go through the
first door you see (yes, there's
another knife fight), and
quickly run to the north part of
the room and pick up the 002 KEY
next to the hornet nest. Leave
quickly.

-Use the 002 Key on the north ea
the statue for GREEN HERBx2/3.
If you’re playing as Jill, you
will hear Barry talking in the
room. Inside,
 go into the bathroom for HANDGU
(and maybe two zombies). Further
in the room be cautious if
you're playing Rebirth, because
there's a zombie and a spider in
here. You can find PLANT 42
REPORT on the bed, and the MAP
OF DORMITORY on the wall. Unlock
the desk for SHOTGUN SHELLSx7.
(If you’re in Rebirth Mode, and
you’re run tight on inventory,
be aware that you may encounter
more knife fights). Push the
left shelf straight and the
right shelf right to reveal a
ladder. Descend.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? -Whether there's a
hornet and mi will need to push
the three boxes around here to
create a bridge across the water
gap. Here's a simple solution:

1. Push the first two boxes
   straight into the water.
2. Push the far box towards
   where you entered to give
you room to drag it on the other
side of the wall, giving you
room to push it onto the water.
--------------------------------

-Take the GREEN HERBx2 and enter
doors. Quickly run to the south
west room so you aren't attacked
by the sharks (Jill will
actually have a cool cinema with
this). In Classic mode, just
push the lever to drain the
water. In Rebirth, you'll have
to solve a simple puzzle after
doing so.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY* Quickly
examine the valve handle right
of the lever and use the touch
screen to rotate it counter
clockwise until all four red
lights turn on to drain the
water.
--------------------------------

-After, examine the button panel
Classic mode, just hit the
switch to unlock the room next
door. In Rebirth, there's a
catch:

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY* On the
electro-lock panel, the object
is to have all numbers add up to
15, 8, and 3: [843] [591] [267]
--------------------------------

-In the other room, take the HAN
SHOTGUN SHELLSx14, and most
importantly, the 003 DORMITORY
KEY. Before returning to the
Guardhouse above, enter the East
door. Chris can find a SMALL KEY
in the box next to the plant
roots. If your Jill, this is
where you will place the V-Jolt
once you create it soon enough.

-Get the Red Book and 003 Key, a
room with the hornet's nest.
Unlock the 003 room (and be
faced with another knife fight),
pick up the V-JOLT REPORT on the
shelf, INK RIBBONx3 in the desk,
and FLAMEROUNDSx6 or HANDGUN
BULLETSx15 in the bathroom.
Place the Red Book on the
bookshelf to reveal a door on
the wall. Before you enter, save
your game brings your Shotgun or
Bazooka with flame rounds, and
fight Plant 42.

***If you're playing as Jill, yo
puzzle that makes the fight
against the plant a lot easier.
Approach the door in the hornet
nest room.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *JILL* Check the panel
next to the door and enter
either: 345 or 1245 (whatever
the code was on the pool table).
This will unlock the door,
leading into your next puzzle.

PUZZLE? *JILL* Pick up all four
EMPTY BOTTLES scattered around
the room. Here you will have to
do a lot of mixing. The two
shelves contain UMB No. 02 and
04. Follow these instructions.

1. Fill a bottle with water from
   the sink.
2. Put UMB No. 02 in an empty
   bottle (red) and combine
it with the bottle of water to
make NP-003.
3. Put UMB No. 04 in an empty
   bottle (green). Combine
it with NP-003(purple) to create
UMB No.07 (white).
4. Put UMB No.02 in empty bottle
   (red) and fill another
bottle with UMB No. 04(green).
Mix the two together to make
YELLOW-6(yellow).
5. Combine YELLOW-6(yellow) with
   UMB No.07 (white) for
UMB No.13 (blue). 6. Put water
in a bottle. 7.Put UMB No.02 in
another empty bottle. Mix it
with the water for another
NP-003.
8. Finally, mix the
   NP-003(purple) with UMB No.13
   (blue)
for the V-JOLT.

-take the V-Jolt to Guardhouse B
plant roots.
--------------------------------

--------------------------------
BOSS! PLANT 42
Hits: Bazooka with V-Jolt:

3-4 Shotgun (Chris):19-23! The
only strategy here is to stay a
good distance and circle around
the large plant. Shoot it about
two or three times then move to
a new spot (the ceiling leaks
acid).
--------------------------------

-Afterward, get the MANSION HELM
fireplace. With the Shotgun or
Bazooka in hand and a heal item,
head back to the mansion (there
will some knife fights on the
way).

---------------------
RETURN TO MANSION
---------------------
-When you arrive back you will e
frustrating enemy in (Chris will
get the RADIO) Resident Evil DS,
the Hunter. Just blast it (it
usually takes two hits with the
shotgun and bazooka) and nail it
again once it gets back up.
Unlock the door nearby and hit
the switch on the table to turn
the light on. Here, grab the
MAGNUM ROUNDSx6 on the desk and
either the MO DISK or RED BOOK1
on the shelf (depending on what
version your playing). Head to
the save room near and pick up
SHOTGUN SHELLSx7, FIRST AID
SPRAYx1, and or ACID ROUNDSx6
that Barry or Wesker left. It's
best to save, and bring a heal
item. When you're ready, go to
the second floor west staircase
(invested with hunters on the
way). Unlock the door near the
stairs and take the ORDERS,
SHOTGUN SHELLSx7, and MAGNUM
ROUNDSx6.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? CLASSIC VERSION: Turn
off the light switch and use the
step ladder to reach the RED
JEWEL out of the buck's eye.
REBIRTH MODE: Use the DS MIC to
blow out the candle and use the
same step as above.
--------------------------------

-Proceed down the stairs (Chris
to save Rebecca here or not).
Make your way to the tiger
statue and use the red jewel to
get the MAGNUM. Make a save and
equip your Shotgun and a heal
item. Head back to where you got
the 2nd Floor Map and unlock the
red door. In Classic mode, just
examine the piano. In Rebirth,
it's a little bit trickier.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Use the touch screen to
rotate the record clockwise. Go
steadily but somewhat fast. As
long as the meter stays in the
green towards the end, your set.
--------------------------------

--------------------------------
BOSS! GIANT SNAKE
Hits: Shotgun, 6-7 hits

Same as before, just move around
and blast with the Shotgun. You
won't get poisoned this time,
but it's a good idea to bring a
herb or two.
--------------------------------

-Jump down the hole (Barry will 
and be faced with a grave.

***OPTIONAL: If you’re Jill and
possible ending, read on. After
Barry drops the rope, wait for
him to come back to get another
one, and he will give you the
PASS NUMBER (which unlocks the
coded door in the west area on
the second floor).
 It's a much easier route. Just 
the BATTERY in the closet near
the elevator on the second
floor.

-If you chose to jump down anywa
with a somewhat easy puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? CLASSIC MODE: Just hit
the switch on the grave. REBIRTH
MODE: There are six dots you'll
have to "stab" between your
characters fingers. Hit the ones
that highlighting blue but be
quick. Eventually you will have
to stab all six dots.
--------------------------------

-Descend down the ladder and pic
and or the FLAMETHROWER if
you're playing Rebirth in the
north east wall. Run past the
zombies into the west door.
Blast some more walking dead and
take the GREEN HERBx2. In
Rebirth, you'll have to use the
Flamethrower on the panel to
unlock the western door.

-You'll arrive in the kitchen, a
SMALL KEY on the counter. Take
the elevator up in the corner
(if you're tight on inventory,
enter the other door for a cool
cinema and arrive back on the
first floor of the mansion).
Once you get off the ride; be
prepared to face either zombies
or hunters in this area. After
taking care of them, find a
GREEN HERBx1 on the floor and
enter the double blue doors. You
can unlock the desk for MAGNUM
ROUNDSx6, and then take down the
zombies in here. Find the
SCRAPBOOK in between the book
cases. Check out the north wall
for a simple puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Classic: Just push the
shelf out of the way to access
the door. Rebirth: Yank the
sword out of the door with the
touch screen by moving the DS
pen up and down.
--------------------------------

-In this room, grab the HANDGUN
and INK RIBBONx3 on the table.
Don't bother checking out the
window, or you might be faced
with some annoying crows. Next,
enter the west door in the book
shelf room. If you're playing
Rebirth, you will see something
spooky.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Hit the button on the
white statue on the wall which
will shine a light onto the
corner tablet. Push the statue
onto the tablet to remove a
bookcase, revealing a MO DISK or
ERIC'S LETTER.
--------------------------------

-In Rebirth you will encounter m
hunter" on the way. It's best to
just run away. Back in the
elevator hallway, go into the
closet and pick up SHOTGUN
SHELLSx14 or EXPLPSIVE ROUNDSx6
and BATTERY (shoot the spider in
Rebirth). You can find a GREEN
HERBx1 and BLUE HERBx1 in the
next hallway if you like (just
be careful of the zombies and
maybe a hornet). Return to the
Courtyard waterfall with the
battery and crank. It's good to
save now regarding both versions
of the game.

-------------------------
{E}BACK TO THE COURTYARD
-------------------------

*If you're playing Rebirth, you
back to the Guardhouse and fight
the Giant Snake where you fought
Plant 42(and also be treated to
hunters along the way). Make
sure to bring a Herb or two.
--------------------------------
BOSS! GIANT SNAKE *Rebirth Only*
Hits:*4Critical +plus

Unfortunatley, you will be
forced to fight the snake in a
knife fight. The real strategy
here is to have good timing, and
try your best to get critical
hits right before it attacks
you. Remember, you can heal
yourself anytime, and you can
have additional hits once you
get a critical attack.

-Pick up the DOOM BOOK 1 and che
 MEDAL.
--------------------------------

-Use the Battery in the courtyar
waterfall to access the
elevator. Go up, and then use
your crank on the square hole
again to raise the water. Now,
take the elevator back down and
find a hidden passage behind the
waterfall.

------------------------
{F}UNDERGROUND AREA
------------------------

-Open the door and take the FLAM
on the wall. If you're Jill and
you waited for Barry earlier; he
will meet up with you here. Lead
the way when he asks what to do.

-Go through the left or right do
same area), and find a F.AID
SPRAYx1 and SHOTGUN SHELLSx7 or
EXPLOSIVE ROUNDSx6 on the east
generator. Enter the South door
to meet Enrico and watch a
cinema. Check out his body for
HANDGUN BULLETSx30, and leave to
find the HEX. CRANK on the
ground. Along the way be aware
of a knife fight and hunters.
Chris will need to put back the
Flamethrower at this point.

-Go back to where you entered an
to find a huge gap on the ground
and a hexagon whole.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Simply use the Hex.
Crank three times to create a
pathway leading into the next
area.
--------------------------------

-Playing as Chris will have you
THROWER of the wall. Approach
the large boulder and run back
to the side quick for it to
crash into the wall (which
reveals a new passage). Grab the
item behind where the boulder
was (FLAMEROUNDSx6 or MAGNUMx6)
and encounter a hunter here.
Shoot it at a far distance to
avoid your head being sliced.
Enter the new double doors for a
boss.

--------------------------------
BOSS! GIANT SPIDER Hits:
Shotgun: 9 / Bazooka with Flame
Rounds: 1-2!!!

If you're Jill, use your Bazooka
with the flame rounds to take it
down fast. With Chris, run
around the room, shoot with
you're Shotgun, and then move
again. The poison acid it spits
can easily be avoided as long as
you keep moving.
--------------------------------

-After the fight, slash the web
use the flamethrower on the
double doors to get through
(there's also an INK RIBBONx3 on
the corner barrel that only Jill
can get).In the next area, you
will be faced with either a
super fast zombie in Rebirth or
small Snakes in Classic mode.
Avoid the snakes as best as
possible. Enter the east save
room and store some of your
items here. Pick up the INK
RIBBONx3, FIRST AID SPRAYx1, and
BLUE HERBx1. In Rebirth mode you
can solve another blue chest.


--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY*

JILL:

1. D and E.
2. B and C.
3. C and D.
4. F and E.
   (A)

  {F}    {B}

  {E}    {C}

   {D}

ITEM: EXPLOSIVE ROUNDSx6.

CHRIS:

1. A and C.
2. F and D.
3. C and E.
4. G and E.


   (A)

  {H}    {B}

  {G}     {C}

  {F}   {D}

   {E}

ITEM: MAGUNM ROUNDSx6.
--------------------------------

-Save up and bring the hex-crank
door (Chris will need to place
the flamethrower on the wall).
Go north and find a hex hole the
left wall for an easy as can be
puzzle.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Jill: Use the hex-crank
three times. Chris: Rotate the
wall twice.
-------------------------------

-If you rotated the wall correct
left opening passage on the
wall. Enter the door here for
maybe a knife fight and another
great puzzle.

-------------------------------
PUZZLE? Push the statue so it
hugs the wall just right of the
hex hole, then use the hex-crank
twice push the statue out. This
gives you room now to drag the
statue onto the discolored tile
revealing the DOOM BOOK 2 (which
you check for the WOLF MEDAL).
------------------------------

-Run up to the boulder like last
yourself in the left passage to
be safe. Behind it are the MAP
OF UNDERGROUND and a MO DISK.
Now go south and take the small
elevator up to arrive outside.
Take the GREEN HERBx2 and RED
HERBx2, then approach the
fountain.

------------------------------
PUZZLE? Place the Wolf and Eagle
Medal in their respected slots
on the sides of the fountain to
drain the water. Solving this
will reveal some stairs and
another elevator, leading to a
secret underground lab.

----------------
{G}SECRET LAB
----------------

-Pass the emergency door (you wi
little bit) and head down the
ladder to the left. Store some
stuff, and be faced with a
puzzle chest in Rebirth mode.

-------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY*

JILL:

1. F and E.
2. A and B.
3. A and F.
4. D and C.
   (A)

  {F}    {B}

  {E}    {C}

   {D}

ITEM: MAGNUM ROUNDSx6.

CHRIS:

1. H and C.
2. A and D.
3. D and G.
4. H and E.
5. A and F.


   (A)

  {H}    {B}

  {G}     {C}

  {F}   {D}

   {E}

ITEM: MAGUNM ROUNDSx6.
------------------------------

-Head through the door (here you
knife fight), take out the
zombies, and take the GREEN
HERBx2. Find the last MO DISK
passed the Visual Data Room on
the desk and head down the
stairs. Enter the double doors
immediately next to you (watch
the zombie in Rebirth) and enter
the first door you see. Turn on
the switch, and in Rebirth, take
down the “turbo” zombie in here,
and finds the RESEARCHER'S
LETTER on desk, HANDGUN
BULLETSx15 in the box next to
the sink, and GREEN HERBx1 in
front of the picture. Next, you
will be faced with a puzzle.

------------------------------
PUZZLE? Push the shelf near the
desk to find a switch to turn on
a blue ray light in the room. If
you read the letter, look at the
picture for a hint. The key here
is to match the symbols with the
letters from the words on the
picture. If you are having
trouble, the answer is M O L E.
-------------------------------

-Return to the hallway with the
an INK RIBBONx3 in front of the
south wall) and enter the north
east doors after blasting some
zombies. Inside, watch the fast
zombie in Rebirth, and pick up
the SLIDES on the ground. Log
onto the computer.

-------------------------------
PUZZLE? {1}LOGIN: John
{2}PASSWORD: Ada {3}2ND
PASSWORD: MOLE {4}Unlock both
rooms on both B2 and B3.
------------------------------

-Head back upstairs and enter th
There might be a large hornet in
here depending on the version
you are playing. Use the slides
on the projector for some cool
pictures and data. Examine the
panel on the wall and push the
switch.

-------------------------------
PUZZLE? Classic: By pressing the
switch the pillar will
automatically move. Rebirth:
Chris and Jill will have to
solve a confusing puzzle, and on
top of that, the pattern is
different between the two. Hit
the switches in the order given
below:

       []  []  []  []  []
       1   2   3   4    5

JILL: 4, 3, 1, 5, 2.
CHRIS: 2, 5, 4, 1, 3.
--------------------------------

-When it's over, grab the POWER
the SECURITY SYSTEM FILE in
corner shelf. Exit and go back
downstairs (if you want the best
ending, bring two Mo Disks with
you). It's also a good idea to
bring the Shotgun as well.
Unlock the double doors
Southeast with the Power Room
Key. The next couple of steps
are optional, but worth it.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? If you head into the
first room, you will be faced
with two boxes and a step
ladder. Your goal is to have
both boxes covering the circle
vents on the floor first, and
then the step ladder onto of the
middle switch. Here's the
solution:

KEY:
O Circle vents
[] Switch
[A]Box 1
[B]Box 2
L Step Ladder
              {4}
    {3}- O      []     O-{1}


          L------>{2}

        [A]          [B]

{1}Push Box A straight ahead to
cover the circle vent on the
right. {2}Push the step ladder
to the right; just enough to
give you room to push it back
from the right side (not against
the wall). {3}With the step
ladder out of the way, push Box
B, push it straight to the side
of the ladder. Next, push it
from the right side and work
your way to cover the left
circle vent. {4}Now push the
ladder onto the center tile
switch.
--------------------------------

-Don't forget to pick up the RED
SHELLSx7, then crawl through the
vent from the step ladder. On
the shelf there is MAGNUM
ROUNDSx6 (in Rebirth there will
be a ton of zombies scattered on
the floor). Use a Mo Disk on the
pass code input machine to get
PASSCODE 02. Unlock the door
arrive back in the hall.
Continue to the East hall and
enter the eastern save room
(look out for zombies). Here
snag the GREEN HERBx1, BLUE
HERBx2, and either the
FLAMEROUNDSx6 or MAGNUM
ROUNDSx6. Save your game and
bring a heal item with you. In
Rebirth mode, you can solve your
last puzzle chest in the game.


--------------------------------
PUZZLE? *REBIRTH ONLY* The last
one is quite different then the
rest of them in the game, simply
because there are four handles
instead of the average two. One
handle highlights one color
circle, while the remaining
highlight three color circles.

JILL:

1. B, GFE.
2. F, ABC.
3. A, FED.
4. E, HAB.
   (A)

  {F}    {B}

 {E}       {C}

  {F}     {D}

   {E}

ITEM: MAGNUM ROUNDSx6.

CHRIS:

1. A, DEF
2. D, EFA
3. E, BCD


   (A)

  {H}    {B}

 {G}       {C}

  {F}   {D}

   {E}

ITEM: FIRST AID SPRAYx1
--------------------------------

-Leave the save room (encounter
enter the south room. If you're
playing the new Rebirth mode,
this will be your toughest knife
fight in the game, since it's so
lengthy. Time your attacks, the
more critical hits the safer.

-"Heads" up for the head hunters
is the only resort. Check out
the power regulator terminal in
the southwest part of the room.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Classic: Just hit the
switch and the power will
automatically restore.

Rebirth: With the touch screen,
you need to draw two wires to
connect the power. Draw the
lines marked @ on the diagram
below.

    _____      _____       _____
    |   |      |   |       |   |
    |   |______|   |_______|___|
    |   |      |   |       |   |
    |@@@|      |@@@|_______|   |
    |___|      |   |       |   |
    |___|      |   |_______|   |
    |   |      |   |       |   |
 {2}  {3}   {4} {5}     {7} {8}
--------------------------------

-Enter the southwest door from h
straight ahead into southeast
corner in this area, you can
place a Mo Disk into the inputer
to get PASSCODE 03(optional). Be
cautious of the head hunters,
and enter the south door. Blast
some more crawlers, then examine
the terminal.

--------------------------------
PUZZLE? Classic: Like before,
just hit the switch for to get
power back on automatically.

Rebirth: Again, you have to
restore the power with the touch
screen, but this time, it's a
little different.


    _____      _____       _____
    |   |      |   |       |___|
    |   |@@@@@@|   |_______|   |
    |___|      |@@@|       |   |
    |   |      |   |_______|   |
    |___|      |   |       |   |
    |___|______|   |       |   |
    |   |      |   |       |   |
 {5}  {6}   {3} {2}     {4} {7}
-------------------------------
-With the power finally and full
elevator, head back to the save
room and SAVE YOUR game. Equip
the Magnum and a heal item, then
approach the elevator. Hit the
switch on the right to activate
it. Depending your decisions
through out the game, Barry or
Rebecca will meet up with (if
Chris saved Rebecca earlier on).
Regardless, you will watch a
cinema and be faced with the
Tyrant.

------------------------------
BOSS! TYRANT (ROUND 1)
Hits: 6(with Magnum) or 3(Jill)

Hopefully you saved up your
Magnum bullets for this fight.
It's pretty simple here, run a
long distance and shoot away,
and when you hit 3-6 shots, he
will fall!
-----------------------------

-After the fight, you may be put
situations. If you didn't save
Rebecca or didn't wait for Barry
earlier, then you have to take
the MASTER KEY (JILL) from
Wesker's body, then unlock the
door by the terminal nearby. If
you did do the actions above,
then you can simply leave the
room without worrying to pick
anything up (Jill will have to
check on Barry if you want the
good ending and Chris will meet
up with Rebecca).

*Optional: Input the last Mo Dis
room on B3 to get the PASS CODE
01. Now you can approach the
west double doors and input all
three codes on the right wall.
Blast the zombies around here
and you rescue either Chris or
Jill from the jail cell!!

-Save your game for the last tim
the emergency exit doors on B1.
Pick up the BATTERY on the floor
and place it into the slot next
to the elevator. Here you might
watch a cinema, and go up the
elevator for a possible time
limit. Pick up the FLARE in the
box and use it in the center of
the helipad to have Brad come in
the helicopter. If you rescued
your secondary characters and
Jill or Chris, you will face the
Tyrant one last time.

--------------------------------
FINAL BOSS! TYRANT Hits: 8-12
with Magnum, +plus Rocket
Launcher

Don't be in disgrace if you get
nailed right away. As long as
you have plenty of healing
items, keep a not too far
distance and fire away with the
Magnum. If you run to far, he
will knock you down with his
devastating drag claw attack.
After about eight to twelve
shots, Brad will drop the Rocket
Launcher, equip it and FIRE!!!!!
--------------------------------


================================
[5]   G   A   M   E
   E   N   D   I   N   G   S
================================

All the endings aren't all that
different, they only include or
exclude a character or two.
*****SOME SPOILERS************

------------------
CHRIS'
ENDINGS
-------------

(1)WORST ENDING: Rescue Yourself
Don't save Rebecca from the
hunter early on and forget about
Jill in the jail cell.

What Happens: Chris takes off
the helicopter alone (not facing
the Tyrant).

{2}2ND WORST ENDING: Save
Rebecca Make sure to kill the
hunter that attacks her on the
west area of the mansion, and
ignore Jill and Mo Disks inputs.

What Happens: Chris and Rebecca
take off and Chris asks if
Rebecca is tired, and she says
she is.

{3}MODERATE ENDING: Rescue Jill
Only Let the hunter slice
Rebecca (just run away), and
complete the Mo Disk input
procedure to save Jill from jail
cell on B2 of the lab.

What Happens: Chris and Jill
take off in the chopper, laying
on Chris', while both are
exhausted.

(4)THE BEST ENDING: Save Rebecca
& Jill Rescue Rebecca from the
hunter and input all Mo Disks in
the input decoder to get access
to the jail cell, where you save
Jill.

What Happens: Chris, Jill, and
Rebecca get away, and Chris
smiles at Rebecca who is
sleeping.

------------------
JILL'S
ENDINGS
------------

{1}WORST ENDING: Rescue Yourself
After the second snake fight in
the game, Barry will drop down
the rope, and he says he will be
right back. Do not wait for him,
just go down the ladder. Don't
bother with the Mo disk
sequence, just run up to the
helipad to the chopper.

What Happens: Jill takes off
alone. (You will also get
Barry's Picture here).

{2}2ND WORST ENDING: Save Barry
Follow the first step above, but
instead wait for Barry to give
you the rope. When you face the
Tyrant the first time; make sure
you check on Barry after the
fight.

What Happens: Jill and Barry
take off in the helicopter.

{3}MODERATE ENDING: Rescue Chris
Leave Barry when he drops the
rope in the hole, and complete
all three Mo Disk steps to save
Chris from the jail.

What Happens: Chris and Jill
take off in the chopper.

{4}BEST ENDING: Save Both Chris
& Barry Wait for Barry to come
back with the rope after the
second snake fight, and check on
him once he get's hit by the
Tyrant. Input all Mo Disks in
the inputors and rescue Chris
from the jail cell.

What Happens: Jill, Chris, and
Barry leave the scene and Barry
checks out is Colt Magnum for
some reason.


================================
[6]   I  T  E  M
   L  I  S  T
================================
Here's a quick reference for all
the items found in the game if
you don't feel like searching it
in the walkthrough.

{1}JILL's HANDGUN Location:
Jill: Defualt/Chris: Main
mansion room, on floor. Use:
Weapon

{2}EMBLEM Location:Dining
room(Mansion,1F, above fire
place. Use:Replace the Gold
Emblem in piano room.

{3}GOLD EMBLEM Location: Piano
room, Mansion 1F. Use: Place it
above the fireplace in the
dining room where you get the
Emblem.

{4}LOCKPICK (JILL) Location:
Mansion main room, Barry gives
it to you. Use: Unlocks simple
locks, and Sword carving doors.

{5}SMALL KEYS (CHRIS) Location:
Mansion, Courtyard, Guardhouse.
Use: Unlocks simple locks, small
desks.

{6}MANSION SWORD KEY (CHRIS)
Location: Mansion 1F, west save
room. Use: Unlocks all doors
with a sword carving on it.

{7}MANSION SHEILD KEY Location:
Dining room (Mansion 1F), behind
clock. Use: Unlocks snake room,
Mansion 2F east area.

{8}MANSION HELMET KEY Location:
Guardhouse 1F, in fireplace
(where you fight Plant 42. Use:
Unlocks all doors with a helmet
carving.

{9}MANSION ARMOR KEY Location:
Mansion 1F (west area), near
plant fountain. Use: Unlocks all
doors with an armor carving.

(10)002 DORMITORY KEY Location:
Guardhouse 1F, near hornet's
nest. Use: Unlocks 002 rooms
(Guardhouse 1F).

(11)003 DORMITORY KEY Location:
Guardhouse B1 (near shark room).
Use: Unlocks 003 rooms in hornet
nest area.

(12)CONTROL ROOM KEY Location:
Guardhouse 1F, 001 room bathtub.
Use: Unlocks control room in
Guardhouse, B1

{13}POWER ROOM KEY Location: Lab
B1, Visual Data Room. Use:
Unlocks power room on Lab B2.

(14)V-JOLT (JILL) Location:
Guardhouse 1F, near hornet's
nest. Use: Damages Plant 42.

{15}MUSIC NOTES Location:
Mansion 1F, piano room, behind
shelf. Use: Use on piano.

(16)BLUE JEWEL Location: Inside
statue in dining room (2F)
Mansion, push it off balcony.
Use: Use on tiger statue
(Mansion 1F west area).

(17)RED JEWEL Location: Mansion
2F (west area), buck's eye. Use:
Place in tiger statue (Mansion
west 1F).

(18)WIND CREST Location: Tiger
statue, Mansion 2F Use: Place in
the panel to gain access to
Courtyard.

(19)MOON CREST Location: Mansion
2F, first snake fight. Use:
Place in the panel to gain
access to Courtyard.

(20)STAR CREST Location: Mansion
1F, solve picture puzzle in east
area. Use: Place in the panel to
gain access to Courtyard.

(21)SUN CREST Location: Mansion
2F, west double green doors.
Solve puzzle. Use: Place in the
panel to gain access to
Courtyard.

(22)CHEMICAL Location: Mansion
1F (west) Use: Pour it on the
water pump to kill off plant
fountain.

{23}BROKEN SHOTGUN Location:
Mansion 1F (west) Use: Replace
with Shotgun on the wall on
Mansion 1F east area.

{24}SQUARE CRANK Location:
Courtyard 1F, in shed. Use: Use
on the square-hole to drain the
water in Courtyard.

(25)HEX-CRANK Location:
Courtyard B1, after talking to
Enrico. Use: Use on all hex.
holes in the tunnel area.

(26)RED BOOK Location:
Guardhouse 1F, 001 room. Use:
Take it to 003 rooms and place
it on bookshelf.

(27)RADIO Location: Get from
Richard (Jill), or Mansion 1F
west area (Chris). Use: Hear
Brad talk.

{28}DOOM BOOK 1/EAGLE MEDAL
Location: Mansion 1F (west), or
Courtyard 1F (snake knife
fight). Use: Examine it for the
Eagle Medal, use on Courtyard 1F
fountain.

{29}DOOM BOOK 2/WOLF MEDAL
Location: Courtyard B1, solve
puzzle. Use: Examine it for the
Wolf Medal, use on Courtyard 1F
fountain.

{30}BATTERY Location: Mansion 2F
(west)/Lab 1F. Use: Activates
the elevator(s).

{31}FLAMETHROWER Location:
Courtyard B1 (tunnel), Mansion
2F (west). Use: Place on hooks
to unlock doors.

{32}MO DISKS(x3) Location:
Courtyard B1, Mansion 2F, 1F.
Use: Enter in the three input
decoders to get Pass Codes
001-003.

(33)SLIDES
Location: Lab B2.
Use: Use on projector (Lab B1).

(34)MASTER KEY (JILL) Location:
Lab B1 (Wesker's body). Use:
Unlocks Chris' jail cell,
emergency exit.

{35}FLARE Location: Helipad
(last area). Use: Light it in
the middle of helipad.

{36)1ST FLOOR MAP Location:
Mansion 1F (east), top of
statue. Use: Map.

(37)2ND FLOOR MAP Location:
Mansion 2F (east). Use lighter
on stove. Use: Map.

(38)MAP OF GARDEN
Location: Courtyard 1F, on wall.
Use: Map.

{39}MAP OF DORMITORY Location:
Guardhouse 1F, 002 room. Use:
Map.

{40}MAP OF UNDERGROUND Location:
Courtyard B1, behind large
boulder.

(41)INK RIBBON(s)
Location: All over.
Use: Saves your game.

(42)FIRST AID SPRAY
Location: All over
Use: Cures all health status.


================================
[6]   W  E  A  P  O  N
      A  R  S  E  N  A  L
================================
Here's a quick overview of all
the weapons in the game.

{1}KNIFE Location: Default
Power: Weak Capacity/a. Info:
Good in knife fights, and useful
in dogs and crawling zombies.

(2)BERRETTA HANDGUN Location:
Default (Jill), main mansion
room. Power: Weak Capacity: 15
Holds: Handgun Bullets Use for:
Zombies and dogs.

(3)SHOTGUN Location: Mansion 1F
(east). Power: Moderate
Capacity: 7 Holds: S.Shells Use
for: Multiple enemies, zombies,
dogs, spiders, and *giant snake.

{4}MAGNUM Location: Mansion 1F
(west), tiger statue. Power:
Strong Capacity: 6 Holds: Magnum
Rounds Use for: Tyrant

(5)BAZOOKA (JILL) Location:
Mansion 2F (northeast), Forest's
body. Power: Moderate/Strong
Capacity: 6 Holds: Acid, Flame,
and Explosive Rounds. Use for:
Use acid/explosive rounds on
hunters, flame on Plant 42 and
spiders.

(6)ROCKET LAUNCHER
Location: Helipad
Power: Super
Capacity: 4-*infinity
Holds: Rockets
Use for: Tyrant, anything.


==================
[7]   ENEMY
  ANALYSIS
==================
If you are having trouble with
some enemies in the game, use
this for some quick help in what
to do when encountering these
foes. *HP (Hit Points)

(1)DOGS Location: Mansion,
Guardhouse Use: Handgun & Knife
HP: 3-4 Info: Shoot them down
with the Handgun, and then stab
them with the knife.

(2)ZOMBIES Location: Everywhere
Use: Handgun/Shotgun Info: Up
against one is simple: shoot it
down or run by it. If you’re up
against more than one use the
Shotgun. HP: 4-7


(3)LARGE SPIDERS Location:
Mansion, Guardhouse
Use:Acid/Flame Rounds,Shotgun.
HP:2-3 INFO:Always stay a fairly
distance to aviod being
attacked. They can be
easilyavoided as well.

(4)SPIDER(small) Location:
Courtyard/Underground Use: Step
on em! HP: 1 INFO: Don't waste
your ammo, just run away or on
them. They do little damage to
you.

(5)CROWS Location: Mansion,
Courtyard, Lab
Use:Avoid/Handgun/Knife HP:1-2
INFO: In Classic mode, they can
easily be avoided, but in
Rebirth they're quite more
annoying considering they appear
with other enemies in the room.

(6)SMALL SNAKES Location:
Courtyard/Underground Use: N/A
HP: 1-2 INFO: Run when you see
these creatures, you're never
forced to fight these. They do
poison you if they make contact
though.

(7)HORNETS (small)
Location: Guardhouse
Use: N/A
HP: 1
INFO: Run, just run!

(8)HORNETS (large) Rebirth*
Location: Mansion, Guardhouse,
Lab Use: Handgun/Knife HP: 1
INFO: It's best to shoot them
when you first see them at a
distance, otherwise it will fly
around you and be harder to hit.
If this occurs, just run away.

(9)HUNTERS Location: Mansion,
Courtyard, Guardhouse, Lab. Use:
Shotgun/Bazooka (explosive or
acid). HP: 2-3 INFO: Toughest of
the bunch, you need to unleash
the Shotgun or Bazooka as soon
as you see them. Never try to
run from them, or your head will
be gone. It's best to get up
close and personal and nail
them.

(10)HEAD HUNTERS Location:
Mansion, Lab Use: Shotgun HP: 3
INFO: Fairly descent, knock them
down when they crawl on the
ceiling and attack when they get
back on their feet.

(11)GIANT SPIDER (Boss)
Location: Underground area Use:
Shotgun, Bazooka with flame
rounds HP: 5-8 INFO: Shoot it,
then run to the side, and shoot
it again. It poisonous, so make
sure you have a blue herb with
you.

(12)GIANT SNAKE (Boss) Location:
Mansion, Guardhouse Use: Shotgun
HP: 5-8 INFO: It’s best just to
go commando and unleash some
fire power. It's nearly
impossible sometimes to dodge
its attack, so go back and
forth.

(13)SHARKS
Location: Guardhouse, B1
Use: Ignore
HP: 2-3
INFO: Avoid at all costs.

(14)PLANT 42(Boss) Location:
Guardhouse Use: Flame rounds,
Shotgun HP: 5-23! INFO: Jill can
easily take care of this with
some rounds of flame explosives.
Chris will have to deal with a
lot of Shotgun fire power. The
key is to shoot it close (not
too close), then move to another
position to dodge the acid
dripping from ceiling.

(15)TYRANT (Boss) Location: Lab
B1, Helipad Use: Magnum/Rocket
Launcher HP: 6-8 INFO: The first
battle is easy, stay are far
distance and pump him with six
shots with the Magnum. In the
last fight, hit him fairly
close, and then run away each
shot.


===================
[8]  FILE
  LOCATIONS
==================
If you're interested in finding
all the files, here are all
their locations. *SPECIAL NOTE:
You CANNOT pick u scenario,
since you get some different
files through decisions and
characters.

---------FILE#1----------

(1)KEEPER's DIARY Location:
Mansion 1F (west), on desk.

(2)BOTANY BOOK: Location:
Mansion 2F (east), library room,
on table.

(3)RESEARCHER's WILL: Location:
Mansion 2F (east), room with
water tank and bug panel.

(4)ORDERS Location: MANSION 2F
(west), room near staircase.

(5)PASS NUMBER (JILL) *OPTIONAL:
wait for Barry after he drops
the rope. Location: Mansion 2F
(west), second snake fight.

(6)PLANT 42 REPORT Location:
Guardhouse 1F, 002 room, on bed.

-------FILE#2------------

(1)FAX Location: Lab, B2 (west)
near decoder on shelf.

(2)SCRAPBOOK Location: Mansion
2F (west), in between book
cases.

(3)SECURITY SYSTEM Location: Lab
B2, Visual Data Room, corner
shelf.

(4)RESEARCHER's LETTER Location:
Lab B3 (west), on desk.

(5)V-JOLT REPORT Location:
Guardhouse 1F, 003 room, on
bookshelf.

(6)Barry’s LETTER (JILL)
Location: Lab B1, Barry gives it
to Jill if you don't wait for
him early on.

(7)ERIC's LETTER (REBIRTH*)
Location: Mansion 2F (west),
behind bookshelf.

-------FILE#3----------

(1)PASS CODE 01 Location: Lab B3
(northwest), use Mo Disk on
decoder.

(2)PASS CODE 02 Location: Lab B3
(southeast), Boiler room, use Mo
Disk on decoder.

(3)PASS CODE 03 Location: Lab
B3, solve box puzzle and crawl
through vent, use Mo Disk on
decoder.

================================
[9]  GAME
  SECRETS
================================
There are plenty of unlockables
in Resident Evil DS. Here's what
I came upon over my numerous
completions.

(1)NEW COSTUMES How to: Get the
best ending with either
character in any mode to get two
new costumes for that person.
You will get the "SPECIAL KEY"
which can be used on the
northeast room of the first
floor mansion (you need the
Armor Key as well). Head into
the back to change into some
cool new outfits.

---------
CHRIS
--------

Costume#1: Ninja Suit INFO:
Similar to Scorpion from Mortal
Kombat.

Costime#2: Leather Jacket INFO:
Cool leather jacket with an
angel on the back, with some
cacks. Going casual yet biker.

--------------
JILL
-------------

Costume#1: Black Half Shirt,
Black Jeans INFO: Nice necklace,
she looks more like a fighter
this time around with a bad-ass
look.

Costume#2: Cop Shirt (hardly),
short shorts INFO: If you want
to call this a costume... Jill
goes Victory Secrets meets bad
girl cop.


(2)INFINETY ROCKET LAUNCHER!!
Considering you encounter a ton
of knife fights and more puzzles
in Rebirth mode, this one is
tough. How To? Beat the game no
longer then three hours with the
best ending with your character.

TIPs: DON'T PICK UP
EVERYTHING!!! -Leave a lot of
the herbs behind when you need
them. -Skip cinemas and load
times (Se B skips the door load
times). -To waste time saving as
much.

(3)UNLOCK CHARACTERS IN MULT-
CARD PLAY

  (A)Rebecca: Beat Rebirth mode 
ending.
  (B)Barry: Beat Rebirth mode wi
ending.
  {C}Wesker: Score a "B" rank or
Knifing.

-the rest of the characters are 
 in Multi-Card mode.



====================
[10]  MASTER    of
  KNIFING
====================
Use this chart to help you get
through the levels. Remember,
*critical hits can be performed
enemies hit you. It's your guide
to win!

______________________
RANK of PERFORMANCE
-TIME
-Max Hit Combo
-Score
-Score Bonus
-Damage received
______________________

--------------------
S  T  A  G  E   1
--------------------
BOSS! Special Zombie Hits
3*critical +plus/


ENEMY:
Zombies
(Chris) 9
(Jill) 7-8


--------------------
S  T  A  G  E   2
--------------------
BOSS! Hunter
Hits: 4 critical* +plus


ENEMY:
Zombies
Chris:13-15
Jill:8-9

Crows:
Chris:14
Jill:6-7

--------------------
S  T  A  G  E   3
--------------------
BOSS! Forest
Hits: 5 critical* +plus (Chris)
*3 critical hits +plus (Jill)

ENEMY:
Zombies:
Chris:4
Jill:8-9

Crows:7

Hunters:
Chris:5
Jill:2

--------------------
S  T  A  G  E   4
--------------------
BOSS! n/a
Hits: 5 critical* +plus (Chris)
*3 critical hits +plus (Jill)


ENEMY:
Zombies
Chris:5
Jill:6

Crows:
0

Hunters:
Chris:5
Jill:2

Dogs:
Chris:13
Jill:3




--------------------
S  T  A  G  E   4
--------------------
BOSS! Snake Hits: 8 critical*
+plus (Chris) *4 critical hits
+plus (Jill) -If you're playing
as Chris, the it will take you
several tries to beat the snake.
You need to use quick stabs when
he goes for his ultimate attack,
which is three attacks straight
in a row.

ENEMY:
Crows:
Chris:20+


=================
[11]  Multi-card
  Play
=================
Here are some general tips and
rules that the game gives you.
For more information and general
strategies, the instruction
booklet gives you a bunch. *FROM
THE TOP SCREEN MENU RULES:

-V  E  R  S  U  S  Mode-
-"Defeat yellow enemies and your
stronger."
-"Defeat purple enemies and you 
unable to run."
-"Only one person can take items

C  0-  o  p  Mode
-"You and your team share the sa
-"enemies share the same life."
-"when everyone's in the same ro
-"only one person can take items

============
[12]  FINAL
  WORD
=============

Resident Evil: Deadly silence is
a pure enjoyment for Nintendo's
handheld system. Although at
first glance, you may think the
game is quite dated (which it
is), but the new features add
some cool new way to play the
game. Using the DS Mic and touch
screen, I had a ton of fun
playing through this game more
than five times. If you own a
DS, it wouldn't be bad a bad
idea topick this game up.
-Brandon Guerrie


SPECIAL NOTE* Thanks to gamefaqs
for giving me and all the others
the opportunity to write
guides/reviews/codes for games.
Thanks to Capcom as well. any
questions, email:
brandon_guerrie@yahoo.com.
Copyright 2006 end of FAQ.
