***** *   * ***** ***** *****   
*     *   * *   * *     *   *   
*     *   * ***** *     *****   
***** *   * *     ***** *   *   
    * *   * *     *     *   *   
    * *   * *     *     *   *   
***** ***** *     ***** *    *  

***** *   *   ****  *****
*     *   *   *   * *
*     *   *   *   * *
*     *****   *   * *****
* ***     *   *   *     *
**  *     *   *   *     *
*****     *   ****  *****
--------------------------------
             ~Test~
--------------------------------
The width of text is 76
characters. If you can read
this, your fine: ABCDEFGHIJKLMNO
PQRSTUVWXYZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTU
VWXYZABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQRSTUVW ABCD
EFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZABCDEFGHIJ
KLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQ
RSTUVW ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXY
ZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZABCDE
FGHIKLMNOPQRSTUVW

--------------------------------
          ~WARNING!!!~
--------------------------------
I kindly ask all people using
this walkthrough to check the
website you are viewing this
from. If you have arrived here
from anywhere other than
GameFAQ's, Gamespot, IGN, or
AOL, then please notify me at
once. I have let a decent amount
of other websites allow useage
of my walkthrough, but I would
like to know if anyone out there
is stealing it for their own
good. Thank you.

--------------------------------
         ~Introduction~
--------------------------------
Hello! You might know me as
Deathborn 668 on the message
boards and I decided to write
this FAQ for Super Mario 64 DS
because....well....I enjoy
writing FAQ's. What more must I
say? I absolutely loved the
orginal, and upon hearing of the
arrival of this game, I nearly
'sploded from excitement. After
getting it the controls took
some time to getting used to,
but this game delivers so much
the orginal had and more.
Anyways...

If you see any information
that's wrong, or that I haven't
put in here yet, please E-Mail
me at someguy668 (at) yahoo
(dot) com

About the FAQ....I repeat the
description for Stars. Why do I
do this? It helps both people
using this FAQ. During the
normal Walkthrough I will list
most Secret Stars as we pass
them, useful for people
following step by step, reading
this FAQ as they play the game
in order. I also cover some
things in a seperate section, so
those people who just want to
look at a particular thing not
in a jumbled mess of other Stars
can look their easily. Thanks
for understanding. As always,
use Ctrl+F to quickly find what
you are searching for.

--------------------------------
      ~Table of Contents~
--------------------------------
================================
I.Disclaimer                    
================================
II.Story                        
================================
III.The Cast of Characters |
               |
III A.Mario                     
               |
III B.Luigi                     
               |
III C.Yoshi                     
               |
III D.Wario                     
               |
III E.Princess Peach |
               |
III F.Toads                     
               |
III G.Bowser                    
================================
IV.Controls                     
               |
IV A.Standard, Touch Mode, Dual-
Hand Mode |
               |
IV B.Basic button controls |
               |
IV C.Moves for every character |
               |
IV D.Character specific moves |
               |
IV E.Items in the Game |
================================
V.Adventure Mode |
               |
V A.Course 1:Bob-omb Battlefield
|
 -Getting access to the Castle  
 -Big Bob-omb on the Summit     
 -Footrace with Koopa the Quick 
 -5 Silver Stars!               
 -Big Bob-omb's Revenge         
 -Mario Wings to the Sky        
 -Find the 8 Red Coins          
 -Behind Chain-Chomp's Gate     
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V B.Course 2:Whomp's Fortress |
 -Chip off Whomp's Block        
 -To the Top of the Fortress    
 -Shoot into the Wild Blue      
 -Red Coins on the Floating Isle
 -Fall onto the Caged Island    
 -Blast Away the Wall           
 -Switch Star of the Fortress   
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V C.Course 3:Jolly Rodger Bay |
 -Plunder in the Sunken Ship    
 -Can the Eel Come Out to Play? 
 -Treasure in the Ocean Cave    
 -Blast to the Stone Pillar     
 -Red Coins on the Ship Afloat  
 -Switch Star of the Bay        
 -Through the Jet Stream        
 -100 Coins Star                
 -The Secret Aquarium           
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V D.Course 4:Cool, Cool Mountain
|
 -Slip Slidin' Away             
 -Li'l Penguin Lost             
 -Big Penguin Race              
 -Frosty Slide for 8 Red Coins  
 -Snowman Lost His Head         
 -Mario's Super Wall Kick       
 -Switch Star of Cool, Cool Moun
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V E.Goomboss's Chamber |
 -Princess's Secret Slide       
 -Looking at the Character Doors
 -Sunshine Isles                
 -Red Coins in Goomboss's Area  
 -Wall Kick Switch Star in Goomb
 -Goomboss Battle               
               |
V F.Bowser in the Dark World |
 -Red Coins                     
 -Switch Star                   
 -Facing Bowser                 
 -? Switch Level                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V G.Course 5:Big Boo's Haunt |
 -Red Coins in the Courtyard    
 -Go on a Ghost Hunt            
 -Ride Big Boo's Merry-Go-Round 
 -Secret of the Haunted Books   
 -Seek the 8 Red Coins          
 -Big Boo's Balcony             
 -Eye to Eye in the Secret Room 
 -Switch Star in the Basement   
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Getting Luigi                 
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V H.Course 6:Hazy Maze Cave |
 -Swimming Beast in the Cavern  
 -Elevate for 8 Red Coins       
 -Metal-head Wario Can Move     
 -Navigating the Toxic Maze     
 -A-Maze-Ing Emergency Exit     
 -Watch for Falling Rocks       
 -Underground Switch Star       
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V I.Course 7:Lethal Lava Land |
 -Boil the Big Bully            
 -Bully the Bullies             
 -8-Coin Puzzle with 15 Pieces  
 -Red-Hot Log Rolling           
 -Hot-Foot-It Into the Volcano  
 -Inside the Volcano            
 -Flaming Silver Stars          
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V J.Course 8:Shifting Sands Land
|
 -In the Talons of the Big Bird 
 -Shining Atop the Pyramid      
 -Inside the Ancient Pyramid    
 -Stand Tall on the Four Pillars
 -Tox Box Switch Star           
 -Pyramid Puzzle                
 -Free Flying for 8 Red Coins   
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V K.Course 9:Dire Dire Docks |
 -Board Bowser's Sub            
 -Chests in the Current         
 -Pole-Jumping for Red Coins    
 -Through the Jet Stream        
 -Koopa Surfin' Switch Star     
 -Inside the Cage               
 -The Manta Ray's Reward        
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V L.Bowser in the Fire Sea |
               |
V M.Course 10:Snowman's Land |
 -Snowman's Big Head            
 -Chill with the Bully          
 -Yoshi's Ice Sculpture         
 -Whirl from the Freezing Pond  
 -Snowman's Silver Star         
 -Into the Igloo                
 -Red Coins in the House        
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Unlocking Wario               
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V N.Course 11:Wet-Dry Land |
 -Shocking Arrow Lifts!         
 -Top O' The Town               
 -5 Secrets in the Shallows & Sk
 -Express Elevator--Hurry Up!   
 -Go to Town for Red Coins      
 -Quick Race Through Downtown!  
 -Soaked Silver Stars           
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V O.Course 12:Tall, Tall
Mountain |
 -Scale the Mountain            
 -Mystery of the Monkey Cage    
 -Scary 'Shrooms, Red Coins     
 -Mysterious Mountainside       
 -Blast to the Lonely Mushroom  
 -5 Secrets of the Mountain     
 -Breathtaking View from the Bri
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V P.Course 13:Tiny-Huge Island |
 -Pluck the Pirhana Flower      
 -The Tip Top of the Huge Island
 -Rematch with Koopa the Quick  
 -Klepto the Condor             
 -Wiggler's Red Coins           
 -Make Wiggler Squirm           
 -Switch Star on the Island     
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V Q.Course 14:Tick-Tock Clock |
 -Luigi in the Cage             
 -The Pendulum Switch Star      
 -Get a Hand                    
 -Stomp on the Thwomp           
 -Timed Jumps on Moving Bars    
 -Stop Time for Red Coins       
 -Tick Tock Silver Stars        
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V R.Course 15:Rainbow Ride |
 -Cruiser Crossing the Rainbow  
 -The Big House in the Sky      
 -Coins Amassed in a Maze       
 -Swingin' in the Breeze        
 -Tricky Triangles!             
 -Somewhere Over the Rainbow    
 -Switch Star of the Manor      
 -100 Coins Star                
 -Back to the Castle.....       
               |
V S.Bowser in the Sky |
 -Red Coins                     
 -Switch Star                   
 -Facing the Final Bowser       
               |
V T.All of the Castle's Secret
Stars |
               |
V U.Bowser Battles |
================================
VI.Quick Walkthrough |
================================
VII.Mini-Games |
               |
VII A.Yoshi's Mini-games |
               |
VII B.Mario's Mini-games |
               |
VII C.Luigi's Mini-games |
               |
VII D.Wario's Mini-games |
               |
VII E.Rabbits locations for
Mini-games |
================================
VIII.FAQ (Frequently Asked
Questions) |
================================
IX.Signs and Plaques List |
================================
X.Unique Star Requirements |
================================
XI.Multiplayer |
================================
XII.Well-Known Glitches |
================================
XIII.Secrets of the Castle |
================================
IXV.Maximum Coin Counts |
================================
XV.Complete 150 Star Checklist |
================================
XVI.Credits                     
================================

--------------------------------
         ~I.Disclaimer~
--------------------------------
This FAQ IS NOT to be used in
any way other than for refrence.
The only sites allowed to host
this FAQ is GameFAQ's, Gamespot,
IGN, and GameInformer. That is
it. Feel free to print this out
and use it as a quick and handy
guide for yourself. I don't
really care if you do so. DO'S
-Print his guide for your own us
-Host this guide on another site
permission) -Give this guide to
other people

DONT'S
-Sell this guide on EBay/Any oth
-Take this guide and call it you
-Plagerize and not give me credi

Thank you for following these
guidelines. It's appreciated.

--------------------------------
           ~II.Story~
--------------------------------
It was a quiet and boring day as
usual for Princess Peach. Bowser
was quite being expected to
kidnap her for like the
bazillinth time, so Peach
decided to invite Mario over for
cake....again. Mario arives
along with Luigi and Wario,
ready to crash the party (Having
cake is classified as a party?).
The three enter he castle....but
they never come back out. Yoshi
is seen sleeping on the roof and
Lakitu notices as well that the
three never came out.

Lakitu tries to wake Yoshi up
(Oddly, the cutscene shows him
on the ground now sleeping.
Huh?) and Lakitu tells Yoshi
what happened. Yoshi soon finds
out that Mario, Luigi, and Wario
have been trapped inside the
castle walls, along with
Princess Peach and 150 Power
Stars. It's up to Yoshi to
rescue his friends and save
Peach from the evil King Bowser.

Can Yoshi manage to accomplish
this all by himself? Of course
not, but he will have some help
along the way.

--------------------------------
  ~III.The Cast of Characters~
--------------------------------
Mario-Mario is, of course, the
main character of the game.
Mario is, of course, worldly
famous for his classic Jump,
throwing a ton of parties, his
personality, and above all,
saving Princess Peach hundreds
upon hundreds of times. Of
course, Mario didn't start out
with Peach. He started way back
over 20 years ago in Donkey Kong
trying to sav his girlfriend
Pauline from the nastiness of
Donkey Kong. Nobody knows
whether they broke up, or
Pauline is the new Princess
Peach. It'll never be said.
Mario is quite a well balanced
character in this game, and his
speed and jumps will serve you
well. You will be needing Mario
for most major elements of the
game, so get used to using him a
lot. Fortunately, he's easy to
use and if you played the
original Super Mairo 64 you'll
find he hasn't changed a bit.

Luigi-The brother of the world
famous Mario is finally playable
again! Ever since his experience
at Luigi's Mansion, Luigi hasn't
done a lot... for quite a while.
He's back with his trademark
high jump and kick in the air to
keep him suspended up their
longer. Luigi is sadly quite
weak...but that doesn't make any
difference for the brother that
has laid in the shadows of Mario
for a really long time. Everyone
comes to love Luigi at some
point in playing Mario games,
and the fact he can walk on
water is no exception.

Yoshi-How does anyone NOT know
cute Yoshi? You start out as
Yoshi, and I do believe this is
his first 3-D platformer that he
can play in. Yoshi has had a
really long history, dating back
nearly 15 years ago when he
first popped out of an egg and
greeted Mario. Ever since then
they have been best friends
Yoshi has a cool variety of
moves. He has his trademark
Flutter Jump where you can stay
suspended in the air a bit
longer. Quite useful if you jump
off a cliff by accident. Yoshi
is also able to swallow his
enemies and turn them into eggs
which he can fling into other
foes. He'll be needing this move
because Yoshi isn't capable of
punching or kicking, so you'll
need to use eggs to destroy
objects the other characters
would destroy by punching.

Wario-The Wario-Man is back in
action, and this time starring
in a game with Mario. Oh, that's
quite ironic. Wario has always
been known for his immense
greed, which usually results in
putting his life in danger just
to make off with a ton of cash.
In the game, you probably won't
be using Wario all that much.
The only thing useful about him
is that he can break certain
blocks other characters can't,
and he has a special ability
that allows him to walk
underwater. He runs slow and has
a terrible jump, so in the
platforming area you really
don't want to be relying on him.

Princess Peach-Also famous for
being the damsel in distress,
Peach has been trapped inside
the castle walls by her mortal
enemy-Bowser. Mario has had a
really long relationship with
Peach for a long time. Isn't
that nice? Not much is known
about Peach's life, but perhaps
it will be soon thanks to the
upcoming release of Super
Princess Peach. Maybe secrets
will finally be revealed about
this princess' life....

Toads-Toads have always been
friendly and helpful to Mario
and his friends and love to have
fun, and they are also easily
frightened. However, the hostile
takeover of this castle doesn't
stop many Toads (Or supposedly
just 1 warping all over the
place) from helping Mario on his
quest to defeat Bowser. 3 Toads
will kindly hand over Power
Stars when talked to.

Bowser-How does anyone not know
Bowser? He's been Mario's rival
for only 25 glorious years!
Bowser is stupidly doing what he
did several years ago. Steal all
the Power Stars of the castle,
hide them, get some baddies,
trap Mario, Luigi, Wario, and
hope to god Yoshi doesn't find
out. That's what Bowser did.
Yay. Bowser has been a good guy
on a few occasions, once in
Super Mario RPG. You will fight
Bowser several times through the
game, but they will be fought
only with Mario. Payback time!

--------------------------------
         ~IV.Controls~
--------------------------------
Every game has to have controls!
There are 3 different control
types in this game so you can go
ahead and choose which one fits
you best.

================================
IV A.Standard Mode, Touch Mode,
Dual-Hand Mode
================================
Standard Mode-In Standard Mode
you use the D-Pad to Move
around, holding Y to run, B to
jump, A to Grab objects (Or do
other moves seen a few sections
below) and X to change the
camera angles.

Touch Mode-In Touch Mode you use
the Thumbstrap that should have
come in your DS's box to touch
the screen and move around. The
strap goes on your left thumb,
the X, B, A, and Y buttons are
the same as in Standard Mode.

Dual Hand Mode-In Dual Hand Mode
you can use the Thunbstrap or
pen in either hand. X, B, A, and
Y buttons have the same actions
if you use the left hand for the
Thumbstrap or stylus pen, but if
you use the right, the D-Pad
works like the X B A Y buttons.
Up=X, Down=B, Left=Y, Right=A.

===========================
IV B.Basic Button Controls:
===========================
Here are the buttons you need to
push to do some things.... Y
(Hold)-Run D-Pad-Move around
L-Center camera aroud players'
shoulder (Camera will buzz if an
object is blocking the rotation
of the camera) R-Hold to crouch
down, while in air push to make
a Ground Pound B-Jump A-Grab an
object X-Change camera view to
far away, your characters head
(Player can move, but can
manuver the camera to get better
views), or back to normal view
Select-Choose which mode you
want (Dual Hand, Standard,
Touch) Start-Pause the game
Power-Turn your DS on and off

==============================
IV C.Moves for Every Character
==============================
Each character has these
following moves: Walking-Use the
D-Pad without holding Y to walk.
If you walk for a few seconds
without stoping you will start
to fast walk.

Dashing-While walking hold the Y
button to make your character
dash around. You can hold Y
without moving until your
character is jogging in place.
When you move when they are
doing this you will have a quick
dash for a few seconds.

Jump-Simply push B to jump into
the air. If you land on enemies
with a jump, they will be killed
(Unless they are an unkillable
enemy, or something that can't
be jumped on). If you jump near
a ledge, you will grab onto it.

Double Jump-Like the normal
jump, push the B button after
you land from your first jump to
jump again, but higher. You can
grab onto ledges and kill
enemies, etc. just like the
first jump.

Triple Jump-After landing from a
double jump, push B one more
time to jump really high into
the air and spin a lot (It
doesn't effect the jump at all).
What you can do with the Triple
Jump has the same effects as
normal jumps, but you can rach
higher ledges. You MUST be
moving to do a Triple Jump.

Ground Pound-Push the "R" Button
while jumping to fall butt first
onto the ground and pound it.
This is useful for killing those
annoying enemies you can never
seem to get jumped on. This
technique is also useful for
pounding many switches that can
only be activated by using a
Ground Pound. You can also use
it before hitting the ground
from a high fall to not take any
damage.

Side Somersault-This is one of
the most useful moves to reach
high places in an incredibly
fast amount of time, and if you
have little room. First, you
need to be running (By holding
Y) and then quickly tilt the
D-Pad, Thumb Strap, etc. in the
opposite direction you are
currently running and while your
character is mid-way through
changing directions, Jump. You
will flip sideways in the air,
and get a LOT of height. As I
already said, this move is VERY
useful later in the game. All
four characters are able to
utilize this excellant move. Use
it well (You need some room to
pull this move off however....)

Long Jump-This is, by far, the
number one most USEFUL move in
the entire game. You will be
using it often. To cover long
distance quickly, get you across
large gaps, and so much more.
Simple. Start running with Y of
course, then Crouch with R, then
quickly push B. Your character
will jump low, but very far.
Like I already said, you will be
using this move everywhere
before you know it. The best
place to practice this awesome
move is outside of the castle.

Punch-The punch is a useful move
when you are right next to an
enemy that you are trying to
kill. Simple push the A button
to lunge a fist at the enemy,
killing it (If the enemy can be
killed). As a little note, Yoshi
CANNOT Punch. Instead of
Punching, he gobbles enemies
into his mouth (This information
is covered later). You can also
puch away other objects, walls,
boxes, etc.

Pick Up an Object-If you are
standing right next to a box, or
some other Pick-up-able object
then simple push the A button to
grab the object in your arms and
carry it around. As with
Punching, Yoshi can't grab boxes
and stuff like that. He can
however, devour small boxes into
square eggs.

Throw Object-While you are
holding an object in your arms
simply push the A button again
to throw the object. Depending
on the object, Coin(s) may come
out of it. Isn't that just
wonderful? Yoshi can throw eggs
by this action.

Crouch-Push the R button while
not walking at all to Crouch
down, with your head between
your knees. It's pretty much
ducking really from objects that
are passing above you. While
Crouching, you can use the
D-Pad, etc. to move around
slowly, so you can pass through
small tunnels. All of the
characters can pull off this
stunt.

Swim-You'll be swimming very
often in this game. When you
jump into a body of deep water,
your character will stay in the
water and the Power Meter will
appear. Push Y or B at an even
rate to gain speed in swimming.
Use the D-Pad to steer, pushing
Up to dive under and Down to
swim up (It's impossible to
Dive/Surface with the
Thumbstrap/Touch Screen). Your
Power Meter is like your Air
Meter underwater. Every 6 or so
seconds you will lose 1 bar of
health from Air. When you
surface you will gain back all
of your Air, then you can keep
going. At the surface of water,
hold down and push B to jump out
of the water. That's all there
really is to swimming. Keep in
mind that if you lose your
entire health bar underwater,
you will drown and lose a life.
You must come up for air
eventually before drowning.

Kick-Yoshi cannot perform this
move because he can't Punch.
Simply Punch three times. On
your thrid Punch you will Kick
instead. I don't see much of a
big deal out of Kicking, so you
don't need to worry about this
move. I believe that it has a
slightly larger range than
punching, but again I'm not too
sure.

Jump Kick-You will rarely find
the use for this move....only
when you need to knock something
down or kill an airborne enemy.
Anyways, while Jumping, push A
to make a Kick while in the air
for a Jump Kick. Because Yoshi
can't Kick, he can't perform
this move. Some enemies can be
easily defeated by this move,
especially the ones whose weak
points are suspended above the
ground. You can also use this
move instead of a Ground Pound
to avoid damage before hitting
the ground, but it doesn't work
sometimes. Use at your own risk.

Slide Kick-This is a pretty cool
attack, but one that can easily
get out of control. While you
are dashing, push R to Crouch
(So you're Crouching, and moving
on the ground a little
(sliding)), then push the A
button. You will put your foot
out and slide across the ground,
destroying all in your
path....assuming you don't die
from a fall into a pit before
then!

Slide Attack-While your dashing,
push the A button to leap far
ahead face first. You can bump
into enemies and kill them, as
well as grab objects that you
ram into while in the air, or
sliding on the ground. Just be
sure you slide off into
oblivion.

Side Step-If and when you stand
next to a wall, your character
will start to do a pose like
their hugging the wall. You can
move left and right slowly while
hugging the wall to cross narrow
pathways without the threat of
falling off.

Crawl-While you are Crouching
(with the R button), you can
move around to easily crawl
underneath things. Other than
that there isn't much point to
this move. You are able to crawl
up some hills that you can't run
up, sometimes providing
shortcuts within a level. This
move can also be useful to avoid
some enemies' attacks, such as
ones that go in a straight line
in the air.

Climb Poles-When you are near a
pole, jump onto it to grab onto
it. This doesn't work just for
poles though. You can grab onto
trees too. You can press B to
jump off in the direction the
back of your character is
facing. Hold Up to climb up the
pole, and hold down slide down
it. Hold Left or Right to rotate
your body around the pole.

Handstand-Climb to the top of
the pole. Stop, then hold up
again, and your character will
be doing a handstand at the top
of the pole/tree. You can Jump
really high and far when you
jump from a Handstand position,
but your character will jump in
the direction they are facing,
however.

Climb-When you get close to a
ledge, your character will grab
onto it instead of falling.
While they are hanging on you
can push Down to make them let
go and fall (Possibly to their
death). Press Up to have them
Climb Up onto the ledge they
were dangling from. If you hold
B or Y while climbing Up, they
will climb faster.

Climb Poles Quickly-Whenever you
are hanging on a pole, simply
hold the Y button to quickly
pull yourself quickly up the
pole/tree. This is useful if you
need to climb the pole/tree
quickly without much worry to
what direction you are facing.

Wire Nets Hanging-If you see a
mesh net above you, jump and
HOLD the B button to grab onto
the net. While on the net use
the D-Pad, Thumbstrap, etc. to
move around on the net. Release
the B Button when you want to
drop from the mesh net.

=============================
IV D.Character Specific Moves
=============================
--------------------------------
            ~Mario~
--------------------------------
Power:**
Speed:**
Jump:**

Mario is an extremly balanced
character. All of his stats are
great, perfect for beginners,
and you should probably use him
as soon as you unlock him, which
isn't very long after you start
the game. He has some intresting
moves, and a decent amount of
them can only be performed by
him, making him very useful in
many situations.

Normal Moves: Wall Kick:When
Mario gets on a wall he will
slowly slide down it. You can
push B to kick off of that wall
and gain a lot of height. You
know Mario is sliding down the
wall when dust is coming from
his feet on the wall. The Wall
Kick is useful when needing to
reach high places with 2 walls
between you.

Power Flower Boxes: Wing
Cap:Certain Power Flower Boxes
will contain a wing when Mario
hits them. Mario will then grow
wings on his cap after gaining
them. He needs to Triple Jump to
start Flying through the air (Or
basically, jump 3 times in
succession, you don't need to be
running). While flying, push Up
to fly down, and then push Down
to gain more alitude from that
quick speed. It's best to shoot
Mario out of a cannon with the
Wing Cap, that will give you
plenty of speed, and enough
altitude.

Floating Power:When you get a
Power Flower Mario will bloat up
like a balloon for about 15-20
seconds. In this time you can
keep pushing B to make Mario
float higher and higher in the
air. When you want to quickly
end your floating Power, simply
push the R button and Mario will
revert to normal.
--------------------------------
            ~Luigi~
--------------------------------
Power:*
Speed:**
Jump:***

The man in green is finally
playable again since his last
major adventure. Luigi is quite
basically the best character in
the game because of his insanely
awesome abilities, one of which
will make most of the games
stars pathetically simple.

Normal Moves: Walk On Water:Hold
the Y button then walk onto
water (Jumping onto it will NOT
work) and Luigi will run on it
for a few seconds, then he will
start to swim like the other
characters.

Scuttle Walk:If you hold the B
button you will slowly walk.
This can also be done in the air
too. Not much purpose actually.

Copter Somersault-If you do a
backwards somersault with Luigi,
after reaching the apex of his
jump he will go into a
helicopter motion (spinning
around) and he will fall slowly,
so controlling his fall is much
easier. You can cheaply get many
difficult to obtain stars using
this move. You can also use this
from high heights and you won't
take damage when you hit the
ground because you are slowly
floating down.

Power Flower Ability:
Invisibility:When Luigi gets a
Power Flower, he becomes
invisible for around 20 or so
seconds. In this time, he can
walk through walls and he can
easily bypass all enemies and
not get hurt (or noticed for
that matter). He still has all
of his normal moves while
invisible like jumping and
stuff, however, he isn't able to
kill any enemies when invisible
so be aware of that. He will
flash several times before the
power wears off, so be alert for
that.

--------------------------------
            ~Yoshi~
--------------------------------
Power:
Speed:**
Jump:***

Mario's best and most loyal
companion. Yoshi is insanely
cute, no? You agree with me
right? I know you do. Yoshi is
really good. He may be lacking
in the Power department but that
makes no difference. He can
easily eat enemies and make them
eggs as weapons, which is pretty
cool when you start using it.

Normal Moves: Swallow:Push A to
stick out Yoshi's tounge and
grab enemies (And even some
boxes!) into his mouth. If he
eats enemies they will be
swallowed a few seconds after
being inside his mouth.

Lay Egg:While you have an enemy,
or a box inside Yoshi's mouth,
you can push the R button to lay
an egg. You can then push the A
button to throw the egg at
nearby enemies. The egg will
continue to combo hit enemies as
well, and after being killed you
get Coins that he been earned
from the killings you have done.
This is effectively used just
like punching foes. It will
destroy boxes normally destroyed
by punching, so think of this as
Yoshi's altered punch.

Flutter Kick:While you are
jumping hold B to have Yoshi do
his classic Flutter Kick, which
will keep him in the air longer
and have him gain a little more
height. This can only be done on
the Normal Jumps and Double
Jump's only, however. Like the
rest of the characters, he spins
in this Triple Jump and won't be
able to perform this move there.

Power Flower Ability: Inferno
Yoshi-After getting a Power
Flower, Yoshi will be able to
spit out fire by pushing A
button for the next 15 seconds
or so. This can instantly kill
most enemies and melt ice. Very
cool power and has awesome music
to it. The power runs out
quickly, so do what you need to
do before the time expires.

--------------------------------
            ~Wario~
--------------------------------
Power:***
Speed:*
Jump:*

Hey Hey Hey! It's Wario! Your
greedy little pig is back for
action in yet another
platformer, but he isn't
hoarding money this time around.
He's here to crash the fun! And
damn does he do a good job doing
it. You may like using Wario,
but when you realize that his
jumping and running really
hinder him, as well as atrocious
swimming, you may want to just
do his stars and never use him
again. Or not.

Normal Moves: Wario Super
Punch:Push the A button to
punch. Super ain't it? But,
Wario is so strong he is able to
break the super solid Black
Bricks you may have been seeing
from time to time.

Swing n' Fling:This can only be
done in VS Mode. Get near an
enemy and push the A button to
grab them. Now, you can spin
them like Bowser, faster and
faster and faster, then fling
them away. Such an annoying
attack to use on your opponents!

Power Flower Ability: Metal Head
Wario:After getting a Power
Flower, Wario has the effects of
the old Metal Cap. He will turn
insanely heavy. He will be able
to walk and not get effected by
high winds. He can instantly
kill enemies by walking into
them also. He can walk
underwater too! Just don't
attempt any high jumps while
metal, as he'll fall faster than
a Goomba under Mario's foot.

======================
IV E.Items in the Game
======================
Coin-A yellow Coin. It is worth
1 Coin

Blue Coin-These coins are rare,
but can easily be found in
groups for a short time after
activating a Blue Coin Switch.
Worth 5 Coins.

Red Coin-These Coins come in
groups of eight, scattered
throughout the level. Collecting
them all earns you a Star. They
are worth 2 Coins.

1-Up Mushroom-Collect these
green mystical Mushrooms for an
extra life.

Mushroom-If you find one of
these rare Mushrooms, your
character will grow SUPER big,
and will be able to bulldoze
their way through literally
anything! Signs, bowling balls,
posts, if you hit it when super
sized, it will be knocked off
and a number appears 1-7 just
adds, but after your 8th kill
you will get an extra life for
everything killed after 8. I
love killing stuff. It's just so
much fun.

Spinning Heart-On some world's
you may find a slowly spinning
heart. If you walk through it,
some of your health will be
recovered. The faster you run
through it, the more health that
will be recovered.

? Switch-If you hit this large,
bulbous red switch, all red
blocks that have been in levels
will become solid, and can
finally be opened. They will
reveal Power Flowers when hit.

? Block-Once you hit this block
after the ? Switch has been
activated, a Power Flower will
float down and you can pick it
up. If you are Mario, some ?
Blocks will reveal Wings for you
to get.

Block-Just a normal red brick.
Nothing to much to get excited
about. A simple punch destroys
the crate.

Black Brick-A very hard and
solid brick. Only the power of
Wario's punch is able to break
this heavy brick.

Mario's Cap-If you grab a
character's Cap inside a level,
you will transform into that
character. You still have the
voice of your orginal character,
but you gain all of their
abilities for the level (You
look like them...). However, if
you are hurt by an enemy, you
will lose the Cap. It will run
on the ground for a few seconds,
then dissappear if you don't get
it again. The hat will reappear
somewhere else inside the level.

Luigi's Cap-Transforms your
character into Luigi.

Wario's Cap-Transforms your
character into Wario.

"!" Block-These orange blocks
usually contain Coins, but
sometimes other various items.

Koopa Shell-If you are able to
find one of these rare shells,
hop on it and cruise around the
level. You will instantly kill
any kill-able enemies you shred
over. However, if you run into a
brick, wall, unkillable enemy,
etc. your shell will break and
your back to running around
again. What could be more fun
than Koopa Surfin'? You can also
get a Koopa Shell by killing the
Koopa inhabiting it, then
stealing the shell. Once you
knock the Koopa out of his
shell, be quick about getting on
the shell or he will hop right
back into it.

Cannon-Not really an item...but
a helpful device. By talking to
a certain Bob-omb Buddy in the
world, it will unlock the Cannon
in the level. You can hop in the
cannon and move the crosshair
around to where you want to go.
Push B to shoot out of the
cannon.

--------------------------------
       ~V.Adventure Mode~
--------------------------------
This is finally it. The main
mode of the game. Your mission
is to retrieve all 150 Power
Stars. Let's get on with the
Walkthrough!

--------------------------------
     ~V A.Course 1:Bob-omb Battl
--------------------------------
Mission:Getting access to the
Castle Well, you've finally
started the game! You'll be
shown the picture of Peach to
the side with her reciting the
shown letter on the screen for
her inviting Mario for cake once
again. Anyways, Lakitu is shown
with his camera on his fishing
pole as he zooms around the
castle a few times (Notice Yoshi
sleeping like a baby on the top
of the castle). The camera zooms
far away from the castle like in
the original and a Warp Pipe
appears. Mario jumps out but
suddenly, 2 more Warp Pipes
appear and Wario and Luigi come
out! All three of them have a
fight and then enter the castle,
the camera high above the castle
looking at them, with Yoshi in
view again. After a while Lakitu
notices the three of them
haven't come back yet. Lakitu
attempts at waking Yoshi up (Who
is sleeping on the ground
now....who knows how?) and Yoshi
wakes up, looking dazed and
tired.

You finally get complete control
over Yoshi, so start off by
heading over to the Castle and
try to go through the doors.
Bowser's voice appears, and you
are greeted with the message
"You need a key to open this
door!" Turn back across the
drawbridge and Lakitu will tell
you he saw a rabbit with a Key
in his mouth. So now, head over
to the headge maze which was
right near where you first
started and find the rabbit.
Chase him around and when you
get close to him push A to stick
out Yoshi's tounge and gobble
him. The rabbit will plea for
mercy, and you will let him go,
and he will hand over the Castle
Key! Go inside the Castle now.
Bowser's voice appears again
with "Go Away! Nobody's home!"
Head to the left and go through
the door without a number on the
Star on it, and then jump
through the Painting of Bob-
ombs, and get ready for your
first world!

================================
Star 1:Big Bob-omb On the Summit
Difficulty:*/*****
Recomended Character:Anybody
================================
Welcome to Bob-omb Battlefield!
Currently as you enter, the Pink
Bob-ombs are at war with the
Black Bob-ombs! Anyways, proceed
straight up the hill and across
the bridge, following the dirt
path to the right, and up ahead
you will see a huge Chain Chomp!
He'll be playing in his little
pen, safely connected to his
post, just don't go too close to
him or you will risk getting
bitten by him and losing 3 bars
of health. Anyways, continue
along the path until you reach a
tilting bridge. Jump to keep it
from tilting too much and
proceed up the stairs to an open
field. Manuver your way through
the Bob-ombs and exploding
bubbles to a large gate with an
opening in it, which leads to
the Mountain. Go right making
sure to avoid those bowling
balls rolling back in forth in
that small pit. Across that
you'll see a white slide, but
DON'T go down it. Continue
staying on the dirt path. As you
go higher and higher up onto the
mountain the path will get
thinner and you'll see more
bowling balls, at faster speeds.
Eventually you will see a little
hole in the side of the
mountain. Jump into it and you
will be warped to a spot that is
higher on the mountain,
effectively saving time.
Continue your last few steps to
the top where you will see a big
Bob-omb. Get near King Bob-omb
to engage a conversation, which
will begin the fight!

King Bob-omb will throw Bob-ombs
at you, and your job is to pick
them up in Yoshi's mouth, get
close to King Bob-omb and spit
them back out at him (With the A
button again). King Bob-omb will
begin bouncing around the arena
for a few seconds. You don't
need to worry. Simply avoid him.
He'll throw Bob-ombs again at
you so just repeat this simple
drill and he'll bounce some more
again. Hit him in this same
process one more time and he
will concede. He'll break open,
and the first Power Star is
yours for the taking!

================================
Star 2-Footrace With Koopa the
Quick Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Mario, if
not get the Mario Cap
================================
Start off the course by looking
for the giant Koopa, also known
as, Koopa the Quick. He really
wants to challenge Mario badly,
and refuses to race anybody
else. If your not Mario, we need
to take a little detour. Head
straight up the path and over
the bridge, then before meeting
Chain Chomp go right into the
large field with a Bob-omb, and
a lot of Goombas. A Goomba near
the top right area of this field
is wearing the Mario Cap. Kill
the Goomba and quickly grab the
hat before it dissappears. Now,
head back to Koopa the Quick and
talk to him and agree to his
proposal to race to where King
Bob-omb was before-At the top of
the mountain. As soon as Koopa
the Quick starts running you
gotta get yourself to the top of
the mountain.

Like we have already done before
simply go straight up the path
and over the bridge and to the
left, past Chain Chomp. To save
time and cover distance faster
keep Long Jumping. Head over the
tilting bridge and over the
stairs and then go through the
field, dodging and falling
bubbles and stupid Bob-ombs in
this area. After passing
"Mountain Toll Booth" (That big
gate) run up the hill to the
left of the bowling ball pit.
This little shortcut saves some
time. Anyway, once your back on
flat land continue your ascent
around the mountain, jumping
over any bowling balls that
decide to get in your way.

Once you reach that hole in the
wall take the warp up the
mountain. After getting out of
the hole do a Backflip up to the
top of the mountain and touch
the flagpole to stop the timer.
If you beat Koopa the Quick (And
my god I'm sure you did) it's
just a matter of waiting until
he arrives at the finsih line to
congratulate you, and then he
will hand over his Star to you.
Koopa the Quick will finish the
race in about one minute and
thirty seconds, so that's how
long you have to beat him. You
are allowed to use the hole-in-
the-mountain work, but if you
use any cannons Koopa the Quick
will deem you a cheater and not
give you the Star.

=============================
Star 3-5 Silver Stars!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
This is your first searching
Star! Here, the object is to
find 5 Silver Stars that are
hidden through the level! That's
pretty simple right? Actually,
that is very simple. The
locations of all the Stars
appear on the Touch Screen map
below, so you have an easy
refrence if you need it. But if
your looking here, your at the
right place. From your starting
position go forward until you
see a tree that lies the infront
of the bridge. Climb to the top
of it and do a Handstand Jump to
collect the first Silver Star
that was waiting at the top of
that tree. That's Silver Star
Number 1!

Now, as you have done in the
previous two Stars continue
straight along the path and over
the bridge. Go into the large
field you will be surprised to
see that Chain Chomp has escaped
and is running freely in this
field. He won't be chasing you,
however. He is programmed to
continue circling the exact same
path around the field over and
over and over again. The second
Silver Star is bouncing on the
end of his chain. Chase that bad
Chain Chomp around, or if you
just can not get it very easily,
memorize the path Chain Chomp
takes around the field. Then,
get in his path and intercept
him (Not literally like take him
down, but to the side so you can
get to his chain) and then you
will have finally grabbed Silver
Star Number 2!

With two Silver Stars in our
possesion, keep going along the
dirt path as if this was one of
the Stars we already have
gotten. Go past the pen where
Chain Chomp used to be, and
across that annoying tilting
bridge. When you reach the
stairs that we normally take up
to the large, giant field, take
a left turn to reach a small
area with some trees, 5 or so
posts stuck into the ground, and
a few Goombas wondering around
aimlessly. One of those Goombas
is the holder of a Silver Star,
so jump (Or if Yoshi, swallow)
all of them until one of the
Goombas releases a Silver Star
when it has been killed. The
Silver Star will start to bounce
around the field, and if your
unlucky will start to make a
path going to start, so to avoid
the trouble of going up the
bridge and all that stuff again
I suggest that you quickly
retrieve that Silver Star before
any such foolishness happens to
it. That is Silver Star Number
3!

Now, after retrieving Silver
Star Number Three, make your way
across that giant field by going
up those stairs as usual, and go
near the giant gate like we have
done every time so far. Make
your way across the field,
avoiding all of the falling junk
and evil Bob-ombs that litter
the field until you come across
a few flower patches. One of
these flower patches has the
Silver Star lying right in the
middle of it! The catch? There
is none! Go up to it and easily
claim Silver Star Number 4!

Great, we already have four
Silver Stars in our possesion!
Now it is just a simple matter
of finding the last and final
Silver Star! As usual, like in
the previous few Stars, head up
through the giant gate and take
the path to the left of the
bowling ball pit. Quickly run up
it, or if you feel like you can
do it much faster, run around
the base of the mountain until
you reach a little streach of
land with a tree and two
Goombas. One of those two
Goombas holds the final and last
Silver Star, so kill it and
collect the fleeing Silver Star
before it jumps away to annoying
places. Now that you have all 5
Silver Stars, do you remember
that Glass Dome near the
beginning of the course? The
Power Star will appear in that
dome. Run over to it (It is just
a short hop, skip, and jump
away) and bash into the glass
dome to break it, and retrieve
your next Power Star.

================================
Star 4-Big Bob-ombs Revenge
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, get Mario Cap
if anyone else
================================
It seems that King Bob-omb is
quite ticked off over his
previous defeat, so he now calls
out Mario to the ring and he
wishes to destroy him!

Whether you are Mario or not
start heading up the path like
we have done every single time
so far in this course. Butm
before you do talk to the Bob-
omb Buddies (The Pink Bob-ombs)
and one of them will open all of
the cannons on the course. Isn't
that nice? Anyways, continue
straight through the path and
over the bridge. If you aren't
Mario, take a right (Like we
have done before) before the
Chain Chomp and head into the
open field. In the small array
of Goombas the are wondering
around looking like total
idiots, one Goomba, like before,
has a Mario Cap on him.
Kill/Swallow that damn Goomba to
make him drop hit Mario Cap, and
grab it if you haven't already
done so. (Note:The Mario Cap
here WON'T appear until you have
unlocked Mario!)

Anyways, head straight along the
dirt path as usual, being sure
to dodge the rampaging and angry
Chain Chomp trying to bite your
head off like he has done almost
every time so far in this
course. Continue your trek by
heading across the tilting
bridge and going up the stairs
to the large battlefield.
Manuver your way through the
Bob-ombs and falling water
cannonballs. If a Bob-omb sees
you, run away. Of course, if you
are caught in its explosion, I
highly doubt one bar of health
is gonna make you lose. Continue
through the field until you pass
through the opening in the gate,
and head across the pit of
bowling balls. Continue walking
around the mountain, making sure
not to fall off of its narrow
paths, or worse, get hurt by a
raging bowling ball. If you do,
you will lose your Cap (If you
weren't Mario to begin with) and
you will need to quickly
retrieve it before it gets
teleported automatically back to
the field near the Chain Chomp.
That is a long way back my
friend.

Anyways, continue heading up the
mountain until you reach the
commonly-sighted hole in the
wall, so jump in like we have
done before and prepare to get
warped to the top of the
mountain. Continue along the now
larger path to reach the top of
the mountain as Mario, where
King Bob-omb will greet you,
only this time he wants his
revenge on Mario.

As you may remember before,
Yoshi had to spit Bob-ombs at
King Bob-omb to make him lose
three times to earn victory.
This time around, you will need
to avoid him walking slowly at
you, then run behind him and
pick him up with the A button.
Then release him to throw him on
the ground with the A button
again. He will get up, and start
to walk a little faster.
Continue doing this until you
have thrown him three times, in
which case he will concede
defeat. (Note:If you throw King
Bob-omb off of the mountain
arena, he will lecture you on
NOT being allowed to throw the
King out of the Ring. You will
start the battle anew if you do
this). After his three hits,
King Bob-omb finally decides to
not mess with you anymore, and
leaves behind another Power Star
for you.

================================
Star 5-Mario Wings to the Sky
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommmended Character:Mario,
possible with others but takes
MUCH longer
================================
NOTE:This Star is VERY
frustrating to complete without
Mario! If you want to be Mario
for this Level, you will need to
Wing Cap to collect all of the
secrets. In order to get the
Wings, you will need to have
gone to the Wing Cap ? Towers
and have pounded the ? Red
Switch, which will make every
Red Floating Ghost Block solid,
so you will be able to hit them.
Mario can hit the Red Block on
the Floating Island for the
Wings, which will make this Star
much easier.

Mario won't really be flying to
the sky, he'll be flying around
in it! The object of this
mission is introducing you to
"Secrets". They are special
coins that when gotten, give you
a number and the secret sound.
After finding all five secrets,
a Star will appear. There are
several "Collect the Secrets"
levels, and not all of the
secrets are coins!

Anyways, if you haven't talked
to the Bob-omb Buddy that is
standing next to the Cannon
Cover, you must do so now. That
way, you will have access to all
of the cannons inside Bob-omb
Battlefield, and we will be able
to goto our destination. Go into
close up camera view and look
around until you see a floating
island in the sky. That's where
we are going.

Head straight through the dirt
path as usual and go over the
bridge, as usual. When you reach
Chain Chomp, take a right to the
open field with the Goombas
wondering around with nothing in
their minds (If they have any).
Head up a small grey hill in
this field and you will enter
the cannon that lies on top of
it. Look around until you spot
the Floating Island, then move
the crosshair to the point of
the Island that is closest to
you, then aim the cannon as far
high as you can possibly go.
Now, push B to fire the Cannon!
After a few seconds of flying
through the air you will finally
have landed on, face first, on
the Floating Island! As Mario,
grab the Wing Cap inside the Red
? Box and hop inside the Cannon
on the Island that is located
just near the tree (You can't
possibly miss the hole in the
ground).

Now that you are inside the
cannon, you have the right of
knowing this: When you launch
yourself out a cannon with the
Wing Cap, you will gain a lot of
altitude after being shot out,
very useful for high areas.
Anyways, look around with the
crosshair of the cannon until
you see a circle of coins. You
can't miss it. Aim for the
center of that circle of coins
and push B to shoot yourself
outta that cannon. After flying
through the coin in the center
of the circle, you get the first
secret! Now, Mario will start to
fly upwards for a few seconds.
He may get a few more secrets in
this flight too. (There are five
circles of Coins, and each one
has a center, which is the
secret.). Now, if you missed any
secrets, and odds are you
probably did, fly back to the
island while still in the air,
grab the Wing Cap again, and hop
inside the Island's Cannon. Aim
the cannon higher this time. If
you see the secret, but you miss
it, then fly back to the Island,
adjust the crosshairs, and fire
again. Continue to fire until
you have collected all five
secrets. The Star will appear in
the small field to the left of
the stairs which are past that
darn tilting bridge. Fly down
and land on the ground, and then
you should collect your Star and
get out of the course.

For a challenge, try collecting
the Star while you are still
flying. It's quite fun when your
speeding down in a nosedive at
the ground. The reason why you
want to keep getting the Wing
Cap each time you return to the
island is so you don't need to
worry about it disappearing mid-
flight. Nothing says loving like
free-falling several hundred
feet back to earth.

=============================
Star 6-Find the 8 Red Coins!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
This should be your first red
coin challenge! The object is
simple. Locate and collect all
eight red Coins scattered
throughout the level. After you
have found all eight shining
beauties, a Power Star will
appear. It's location is always
the same-Above a blue star on
the ground. Simple enough. Let's
get started. Head straight as
usual when you start, up the
dirt path. But, before crossing
the bridge go to the left and
you should see 2 platforms going
up and down in a continuous
circuit. When one of the
platforms reach near the ground,
jump on it and ride it to the
top. Before the platform rotates
and you (likely) fall off, a Red
Coin should be seen above it.
Jump and grab it, and still in
the air while jumping, move to
the ground infront of you. Now,
continue along the dirt path
until you reach Chain Chomp (Not
too far away) and head into the
commonly-gone-into field to the
right of his pen. To the left of
the hill the cannon is located
on is another hill, which looks
quite uneven and isn't very
tall. Your next red Coin is on
the top of this hill, so run up
it and grab the coin, the slide
back down that short hill. All
right! Two Red Coins down! Six
more to find!

Great, we have two red Coins in
our possesion. No cheering yet
though. There is a lot more left
to find. Get out of the field
you are in and continue going
along the dirt path until you
enter Chain Chomp's pen again.
If you haven't noticed, Chain
Chomp is connected blatantly to
the small post that is lodged in
the ground. Floating above that
post happens to be yet another
Red Coin. Get near Chain Chomp,
but not too close so he hits
you. Get close enough to be out
of reach, and then when he
lunges at you but fails, use the
time he plays around for a few
seconds to get atop the post and
jump for your third Red Coin.
Now, continue along the dirt
path and past the tilting bridge
to those common stairs. Remember
the field to the left of the
stairs as we will be coming back
to it. Head through the large
battlefield until you reach the
giant gate....again. Don't go
through the door, but face it
and move left until you reach a
little portion of land that is
underground and hidden from
view. Inside is a Bob-omb, a
switch that opens a giant gate
infront of you, and extra life,
and your fourth Red Coin.
Halfway there!

That's four Red Coins in our
possesion! Just another four
left to get. Now, head through
the giant gate (Not the one
opened by the switch, but the
one that we always use to head
towards the mountain). Instead
of going through the bowling
ball pit, run up the large hill
to the left of it. Conveniently
placed on the hill about halfway
up or so happens to be another
Red Coin! Continue making your
way around the mountain until
you reach a cannon. (There are
two cannons on the mountain
however. Use the one that is
closest to the top of the
mountain). Once you have gotten
inside of the cannon, aim for
the floating Island as we did
before, but aim for the tree
that is sticking out of it. Aim
above it (Not too above it, but
somewhat above it) and fire
away. Your character will start
to lose altitude of course, but
you should grab onto the tree,
or even land on the island.
Anyways, climb to the top of the
tree and do a Handstand so your
feet collect the sixth Red Coin!
Just 2 left!

Now we have six Red Coins! Where
on earth could the last two
possible be? Well, they are
stuck in the easiest to find
spot ever. All you need to do is
jump off of the Island and
ground pound before you hit the
ground (I don't want you taking
a suicide fall). Then, make your
way back to the dirt path again
and pass Chain Chomp's pen
again, and you will reach the
tilting bridge and the stairs,
again. I said before, remember
the area to the left. Simply,
head to the left where you
should see a few posts in the
ground and a few Goombas. Oh,
and your shiny last two Red
Coins are also nicely there.
Nintendo probably couldn't think
of any better locations. Oh
well. It is best to save these
last two Red Coins for last
because the Star will appear
just a few feet away from the
last Red Coin in this small
field. Isn't that very
convenient? You simply have to
agree that is nice. Anyways,
grab the Power Star, and get
ready for the next Star of this
course!

================================
Star 7-Behind Chain Chomp's Gate
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi for easiest way,
but anybody else works too
================================
I'm sure we have seen a Chain
Chomp in the course somewhere.
Does anybody here remember where
exactly? As always, head
straight along the dirt path and
go over the bridge, having no
intention of stopping at all
until you reach that dreaded
Chain Chomp once again *sigh*.
It's about time we helped the
poor beast right? Get just
outside of his lunging range and
wait for him too, well, lunge at
you. When he does and fails,
quickly run to the post he is
connected to and Ground Pound
it. Quickly get off and to
safety before Chain Chomp
decides to lunge at you again.
When he does lunge again, repeat
that exact same process, jump
off. Now, just like before, wait
for the lunge, then make the
final Ground Pound on the post
to make if pounded all the way
into the ground. Chain Chomp
will bounce around for a few
seconds in joy. He will then ram
into a gate near his pen and
break it, which gives you easy
access to the Star that was once
hiding behind it. Not too hard
was that?

However, if you want an easy way
out of doing this Star, enter as
Luigi. Now, head straight along
the path until you reach the
bridge and go to the right of
it. A Red Block is there, so hit
it for the Power Flower inside.
Luigi will now become invisible!
At this time, mad dash your way
to Chain Chomp and simply WALK
through the gate and collect
your golden prize. Either way
you choose to tackle this Star
makes no difference, use
whichever you prefer. At least
try to make it a challenge and
complete it the normal way.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
This is your first 100 Coins
collecting challenge! This isn't
exactly a selected Star from the
menu. Instead, you just choose
whatever Star you want, don't
even bother doing it but
actually go for collecting 100
Coins. The Star will appear
right above the 100th coin you
recieve. So, let's get cracking!
Don't choose the first Star as
the cannons aren't open,
however. Choose any other Star
except for that particular one.
As we all know, go straight from
where you start up the path and
when you reach the bridge for
like the umpteenth time, go
around and under it. You will
find five Yellow Coins to your
pleasure. Now, head left from
under the bridge to a whole area
of Bob-ombs in this dirt area.
Pick up and throw all of them to
have them explode and give up a
Coin. They will quickly
regenrate (Meaning they will
reappear in the same place
again) but won't give up another
Coin. But now, we should have
around 12-15 Coins or so. Oh
yeah, make sure that you head
back near where we started to a
brick. Punch it to reveal a few
Coins. So, head over the bridge
now, killing the few Goombas
that are on it for a few extra
Coins. Keep going until you
reach Chain Chomp. Before Chain
Chomp and to the left was that
rotating platforms right? Grab
the Red Coin at the top for two
more Coins to your total.

At this time we should have
around 20 Coins, that is very
good. Head to Chain Chomp but
this time head towards the field
to the right of him. In this
field that we have commonly gone
to in our travels lies a lot of
Goombas, so kill them all and
collect the Coins that they spit
out. Also, if you choose Stars
3-7, a Koopa Troopa will be
wondering around in this field
too. Jump on him to kick him out
of his shell, then stomp on the
actual Koopa that's running
around in embarassment to kill
him, and he will give up a Blue
Coin! It is worth five Yellow
Coins, so you should get it!
After killing all of the Goombas
and Koopa in this area, your
Coin total should be around
30-35 ish.

Now, it is time to truly start
getting a ton of Coins, and
being Mario is absolutely
neccassary for this mission. But
before we should go to "Coin
Heaven" as I like to call it,
head over to kind little Chain
Chomp, but grab a Bob-omb that
is pretty close to him. Pick it
up and run over to Chain Chomp
and throw the bomb into his
face. Chain Chomp will fly high
for a few seconds, so get to the
post he is attached to and run
around it 3 times. After you
have run around it a few times,
five Yellow Coins will pop out.
Don't forget to jump up and grab
the Red Coin for another two
Coins to your total!

Great! We have 40-45 Coins by
this point! Let's get a ton
more. Head back to the field
that was to the right of Chain
Chomp. Head up that ol' small
hill into the Cannon, then
launch yourself to the Floating
Island. This is where being
Mario comes in BIG handy! Grab
the Wing Cap from the Red Block
and the head into the cannon on
the Island, but before that get
the Red Coin at the top of the
tree. Head inside the cannon and
launch yourself into the first
Coin in the middle of the circle
of coins. Secrets Coins also
count as 1 Coin too! You should
grab all five secrets, but don't
grab the Star that'll appear of
course! Continue to shoot
yourself out of the cannon to
fly into the Coin Circles and
collect their Coins! After
around 10 loops you will have
probably collected most of the
Coin Circles' Coins. At this
time right now, you should have
around 70 or so Coins! Wow, just
around thrity or so by now left!
You can continue to shoot
yourself out of the cannon, but
there are 5 Coin Circles, 9
Coins per circle so there are
only 45 Coins to be collected
there. 30 is enough. Anyways,
jump off of the island, making
sure to ground pound before
landing on the ground to not
lose any health. The last few
Coins are easily, easily gotten.

Head onto the dirt path and
follow it past Chain Chomp and
over the tilting bridge of
doomyness, and continue along up
the stairs. In the large
battlefield, you can easily kill
5 or so Bob-ombs walking around
in the field for one Yellow Coin
each. Continue along, not going
through the giant gate until you
reach some flower patches. One
of the flower patches has a
string of eight coins going
around it. Collect them all (No
big fat duh is needed for you to
do that right?). Head back to
the tilting bridge, but take a
right (If your facing away from
it, it's a right) until you
reach the small area with two
Red Coins. Collect them. There
are also four or five posts
stuck in the ground too. Run
around each post several times
to have five Yellow Coins pop
out of each one. Pretty damn
awesome right? That is another
20 to 25 more coins for your
total! By now, if you have
followed everything, you should
have at least 100 Coins by now.
If you don't, circle around the
mountain where you will find a
few Goombas and a few strings of
5 Coins. If you still don't have
enough, there are the leftover
Red Coins and Coins in the sky.

If you need more coins after
this, start heading up the
mountain. There are some bricks
along the way, and several
strings of five coins. There are
two Bob-ombs along the way as
well, just incase you need one
last coin.

=========================
~Back to the Castle.....~
=========================
After getting your first Star
from Bob-omb Battlefield you
will get a message saying you
can open any door on the first
floor with a "1" on it. If you
did many Stars in Bob-omb
Battlefield, you will also get a
message saying you canopen the
doors with a "3" on them too.
The hunt for Mario and his pals
continues! Head towards the
right side of the lobby and
enter the room with a 1 on it.
Head into the painting.....

--------------------------------
~V B.Course 2:Whomp's Fortress~
--------------------------------
Inside of the Lobby, head to the
right and inside the Star with a
"1" marked on it. Inside the
room you will find another
painting. It shows of a large
tower, like a fortress. Whatever
you make out of it, it is the
second world, so get the B
button ready and jump into
Whomp's Fortress!

=============================
Star 1-Chip Off Whomp's Block
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
As like in Bob-omb Battlefield,
you start off this world with
another Boss Battle, but this
one just requires you to push
the R button. Isn't that hard? I
thought so. Start off by jumping
onto the ledge that is right
next to where you start, and
make your way up the small dirt
path like hill until you see
three wierd things that are
jutting out from the wall, then
retracting back in, then jutting
out again, and so on. If one of
them pushes you off of the edge
of the pathway you are on, you
will fall onto a small piece of
land, where you will need to
work your way around back to
this point again. Carefully get
yourself past these things,
where their only intention is to
push you off.

After you get past the three of
them you will find a series of 4
platforms. 2 of them are
retracing into the wall and
coming out again. You can wait
until they are fully out and use
that as the path, or you can
simply jump across the small gap
easily. If you fall into the
hole, you will be near the same
place as if you had fallen off
from those wall things you just
passed, so simply make your way
back to this point. Make your
way forward until you come
across a series of stairs with
Thwomps on some of them.

Now...there are two large
Thwomps moving up and then
smashing down, both at even
intervals. When the massive
pieces of stone are moving up,
quickly move up the stairs
before the first can come
crashing on top of you. You need
to also repeat this same (but
easy) feat for the second
Thwomp. Now, take the path to
your right and you will reach a
Pirhana Plant sleeping and
blowing a nose bubble. Walk
slowly (The touch screen is the
best way to tip-toe silently)
and Punch it when you are close
(If you are Yoshi you can easily
run past it, or jump over it, or
you can do that anyways to save
time). After you have managed to
get past that, you will see a
grey bridge in front of you.
Quickly dash across it because
it is divided into segements
(They are easy to see) and once
stepped upon, fall down to the
earth.

After that, quickly mad dash and
you will see another Pirhana
Plant, so kill it or ignore it,
makes no difference. Infront of
you is a rotating platform. When
the platform stops at your side
where you are, walk across it to
the middle, and wait for it to
stop at the other side of the
fortress, then walk off of it.
You will come around a bend, and
should see a slow moving Whomp,
with that stupid look in his
eyes. Pass him, and continue on
the path, where you will find
another Whomp so pass him too.
Behind the second Whomp is a
platform that goes up and down
(Like in Bob-omb Battlefield) so
ride the platform to the top,
and talk to the Whomp King to
engage in battle!

The Whomp King will complain and
complain how that they are used
merely as stepping stones and
pavement and all that wierd
stuff (That is what a Whomp
does? I had the wrong idea....)
and will get really pissed off
and you two will begin fighting!
Like I said at the beginning of
the level, if you can push the R
button, this fight is very easy.
Simply, get near him and when he
stops moving for about half a
second, get the hell out of his
way. He will fall down with a
slam, and if you weren't in his
path, he will be lying on the
ground for a few seconds. At
this time, jump onto his back
and then you need to execute a
Ground Pound. That will damage
him. The Whomp King won't be
pleased by this, and he will
quickly get up and chase you
around again, and when he gets
the chance he will try to smash
you. As long as you avoid him
and do another Ground Pound, he
doesn't get much harder. After
that, he will get right back up
and try to smash you AGAIN. Make
him miss and do one last Ground
Pound to beat him. He will make
a stupid pun (All puns are
stupid aren't they?) and he will
explode and a Star will pop out.
Grab it to end the level.

================================
Star 2-To the Top of the
Fortress Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
The very top of Whomp's Fortress
has been replaced from a
fighting arena to a large
lookout tower (For what? There's
nothing there really....).
Whatever the reason, start off
again by making your way up the
first hill until you reach those
stupid wall blockers. Jump over
them and jump over the gaps
between you and the moving
platforms if they are in the
wall. Continue around and up the
stairs again, making sure to NOT
get smashed by the Thwomp,
because that is three bars of
health right down the drain.
Continue up those stairs, and up
another series of tiny stairs
with the sleeping Pirhana Plant.
As before, you can easily jump
over it or run past it and not
get hurt. Next, you got the
collapsing bridge, so quickly
dash across the bridge to avoid
falling into a little pond below
(where you will need to get all
the way back here again...). As
before, make your way across the
smaller bridge, and next to
another sleeping Pirhana Plant.
Wait for the rotating platform
to get to you then run over to
its center, and wait for it to
rotate around back to the other
side.

Now that we are on the other
side, continue along the path.
If you need coins quickly (I
doubt you will now but whatever)
you can kill the Whomp's that
are on this path. Continue to
circle around this small area
until you reach the rotating
platform elevator. Wait for it
to come down, then hop on and
get onto the top of the
fortress. You will see the new
additions to the top right away.
First of all, nearby is a Bullet
Bill Blaster, which will launch
unkillable Bullet Bills at you.
They are VERY easy to avoid
however, no worries. Go around
the tower until you see a
platform near the floor. Hop on
it, and the next platform on the
tower is moving into the wall,
and back out. Hop onto it, then
hop onto the next platform, and
every other platform, for your
information, is retreating into
the wall and then back out. The
last platform that is revolving
around the tower (You are
tecnically....) will be an
elevator when stepped on and
will take you to the top of the
fortress, where another Star
lies for the taking!

There is a slightly easier way
to obtain this Star. Get onto
the tree at the beginning of the
level and jump to the shallow
water area above. Head left and
talk to the Bob-omb Buddy to
open up the cannon. You can use
the cannon to shoot yourself to
the Star. Beware, though, this
is slightly difficult despite
saving time. If you miss you
will easily fall into oblivion
past the tower. Use the cannon
at your own risk.

================================
Star 3-Shoot into the Wild Blue
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Anybody, Luigi can
make this easy
================================
Another Star that utilizes the
importance of cannons! Hooray!
When you first start off, face
away from the grey wall and do a
backflip up there. You should
now be standing inside a pool
(Or should I say, a pond) of
shallow water. Head to the right
where you should find a string
of five Coins, a Cannon Cover, a
nice Bob-omb Buddy that is
standing right next to it (Now
that is convenient....like it
always should be). After you
have talked to the Bob-omb
Buddy, hop inside the Cannon for
a short ride to the Star. Look
around with the crosshairs once
you are inside the cannon for a
pole. Don't look for a pole that
is tall and pretty high-that is
the wrong pole you are aiming
for! Instead, bring down the
crosshairs until you can see a
pole with a platform below it
and above it. Move the
crosshairs just barely above
this pole and fire away! If you
aimed the crosshairs perfectly,
your character should grab onto
the pole, and at that point,
climb up onto the platform above
you and grab that Star. If you
overshoot the pole, there is a
pillar to the left of the pole
you can crash into. You won't
break it or take any injuries,
but you will drop right next to
the pole. It's much safer and
easier to perform.

There is a secondary way you can
grab this Star if you are
absolutely horrible at
controlling the Cannon. Go past
the Bob-omb Buddy and you will
be at a slanting down pathway.
You can go into Close-Up Camera
Mode to view the platform the
Star is on. Not very far up high
is that? Go near the cannon and
start a running dash towards
that platform. Get the Jump
ready, then do a Double Jump,
and after that, a Triple Jump.
If you did everything just so
perfectly, your Triple Jump will
have gone high enough for your
character to grab onto the
platform above which contains
the Star! If you are paying as
Mario, you can also use a Wall
Jump instead of a Triple Jump to
reach this platform.

There is actually yet another
way of conquering this Star
also. Personally, I find it
(Actually, it is) the easiest
way and the quickest and the
most effeicient way of getting
the Star. The only thing is you
need to be Luigi. Get pretty
close to being to the side of
the high platform that contains
the Star to Shoot into the Wild
Blue. Simply do a Backflip, and
Luigi's Copter Move after the
backflip and you should be on
the platform with the Star on
it. Of course, there are NO
Luigi Caps in the level until
you have rescued Luigi which I
will cover later in this FAQ.
Use whichever of these three
methods to claim your shiny
prize.

================================
Star 4-Red Coins on the Floating
Island Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
All right. We are about to start
our second Red Coin collecting
challenge! Sounds fun doesn't
it? I know it sounds fun. That's
because it is kinda fun. Nobody
should like collecting these
thing, but this one isn't too
bad. It is a challenge none the
less. As always, start off the
level by going up the first hill
until you reach the things that
are moving in and out of the
stupid wall once again. Above
the thing in the middle is a
pretty Red Coin. Wait until the
thing is retracted out, and then
you should jump on top of it and
collect your first Red Coin.
That is only number one however,
we have seven more left to go,
but the rest aren't all that
hard.

After collecting your first red
Coin, continue on your merry way
and keep jumping across the gaps
made by the platforms that keep
going in and out of the wall.
Continue and make the turn as
you head up the large stairs
with the even larger Thwomp
smashing up and down. Avoid him,
and his brother that is a few
stairs away from him. However,
after you pass the second
Thwomp, don't keep going.
Instead, wait for that same
second Thwomp to come down, and
then you need to jump on top of
him. Don't worry-the spikes on
him won't affect you at all. At
the apex of the Thwomp's rise, a
Red Coin is visble. Jump up to
reach it before the Thwomp comes
down with a mighty fall again.
That is two Red Coins down. This
isn't too hard is it? If you
can't get the Red Coin easily
with a jump, then use a backflip
to reach it. Be careful where
you land so you don't take too
much damage.

Now, we are in a convenient
position. Fall down off the wall
and you will land in that large
section below Whomp's Fortress.
Follow the path around, dodging
Goombas, Pirhana Plants, boxes,
and other junk until you reach a
small section with three Pirhana
Plants and two flower patches.
Lying above one of these flower
patches lies the third Red Coin.
To avoid getting killed before
we reach that Coin, it is best
to tip toe and kill (or just
Punch) the Pirhana Plant heads
to kill them. Once all three of
the Pirhana Plants are killed,
nothing should stop you from
getting the third Red Coin. The
only thing you need to worry
about before you were to
actually get this Red Coin is
how you fall from your previous
position. If you fall to fast or
high, then odds are you are
gonna go crashing out of the
level. You can also take the
safe, long path around if you
aren't feeling very great about
jumping a long jump to an easy
position.

Now that we finally have three
Red Coins in our possesion, make
your way back very carefully to
the Thwomp we passed a Red Coin
or two ago. After passing both
Thwomp Bros., continue along the
path until you reach some
brownish black stairs and
another sleeping Pirhana Plant.
Kill him, or tip toe past behind
him, because the Red Coin he
guards is sitting just behind
him. Use either strategy then
quickly run away from him, but
stop before passing the
collapsing bridge.

Now we have four Red Coins in
our possesion, let's head to
number five. Actually, we barely
have to head anywhere to
actually recieve it. Before the
collapsing bridge is a very
narrow ledge. On that ledge lies
your fifth Red Coin. Go up and
collect it. You should sidle
around the ledge by hugging the
wall. Doing this is much safer
and it is highly unlike you will
fall off the thin ledge. After
collecting it, slowly make your
way to the Pirhana Plant and
Punch him in the mouth, which
makes easy access to the
rotating platform ahead of you.

Past the Pirhana Plant that is
not there any more, you should
be able to see the rotating
platform once again. Wait for
the platform to reach your side
then get onto it and head for
the center. When it reaches the
other side get onto the stick
that is attacked to the middle
of the rotating platform and
stand on the middle of it. Now,
when the platform rotates it's
way around back to where we
started again, you will pass
through a string of Coins, with
a Red Coin being one of them.
Now, get back to the center of
the rotating platform and wait
for it to swing around to the
other side again. Now it is just
a matter of finding those last
two naughty Red Coins! Now you
get several options. There are
two optional ways of getting up
to those last few Red Coins, and
it depends on the character you
are currently using. If you are
Yoshi you must take one of the
options, the other is impossible
for him. Anyways, here are the
following options you have to
take:

You can always continue up the
fortress after getting off the
rotating platform again. Avoid
the Whomp's and avoid the other
Whomp as you board the orange
elevator up to the top arena.
Near the actual tower, is a
large wooden plank. All you need
to do is punch and Jump Kick the
board to make it fall over.
After it has fallen over, simply
walk across it to the other side
where you will find a series of
Islands for you to cross. The
first island is only an arrow,
so jump to the next Island which
contains your Seventh Red Coin.
Then, jump onto the next smaller
Island carefully for your eigth
and final Red Coin. This will
make the Power Star appear at
the very bottom of the level.
Great.

However, if you are Yoshi you
should know that it is
impossible for the little dino
to punch so we must use the
alternative plan to reach the
Floating Islands. Simply, go
back all the way to where you
started the level. Yes, all the
way back there. Now, go onto the
tree and climb to the top and
jump off. An owl should pop out.
The owl will say he will take
you any place you want to be
taken by grabbing onto him and
holding the B button. Do so.
He'll soar high into the sky,
and then you will have control
of him. Manuver the owl until
you can see your shadow over the
Floating Islands, then release
B. Hop over the two Islands to
collect your last and final Red
Coins to make the Star appear
way back at the very bottom of
the level.

Now, head down off the Floating
Islands very carefully, making
sure you don't fall into an
empty abiss and die, as that
would be absolutely bad at this
point in time. Continue making
your way down the tower and
fortress, skipping the rotating
platform and simply sliding down
the hill to the spot near the
cannon. Then, head through the
water back to where you started.
Head to the left like we did
earlier to collect your third
Red Coin, and above the Blue
spinning star will be your next
Power Star! Awesome job, that
wasn't too hard was it? Get
ready to exit the level and
prepare to enter for more Stars!
Oh boy!

================================
Star 5-Fall Onto the Caged
Island Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
You may have noticed while
flying around in the previous
challenge that there was another
Floating Island with a cage on
it. In that cage is another
Star. Your objective now is to
simply retrieve the Star, easier
said than done. Start off by
climbing your way to the tippy
top of the tree right near where
you start. An owl will pop out
and excaim that he has been
sleeping, but he is happy to
take you where ever you want to
go right now. Simply jump up to
him and hold the B button. The
owl will fly sky high into the
air. Your objective now is to
manuver the owl and drop down
onto the Caged Island. However,
the owl at first is flying much
higher than the Caged Island, so
it is nearly impossible to find
your shadow on the Caged
Island...and remember, your
shadow is your friend when
knowing where to drop down onto
that darned island. However,
there is an easier way of
telling where you know when to
drop off the owl.

There is actually a simple way
of landing on the Island safely
and there aren't too many
problems involved with this
method. Simply circle around the
island over and over again with
the owl. The owl starts to fly
lower and lower as time goes on.
This makes it so that eventually
you will be so low that you are
only a few feet off of the
ground on the Caged Island. At
this point, it is pretty simple
to let go of the B button to
drop down. Then, enter the cage
and retrieve your prize, which
is yet another Power Star.

=============================
Star 6-Blast Away the Wall
Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
This is, in my opinion, a really
clever Star to get, not to
mention it is pretty cool what
you have to do to get the Star.
After you start take the usual
path up the hill and carefully
past those stupid wall-pushers
(Hey...that is a pretty good
name for them) and cross over
the gaps between you and those
moving platforms. Make your way
up the stairs of death by being
careful to avoid those
constantly irritating Thwomps
that possibly cause you so much
trouble. Once you reach the top
of the stairs, go down the white
ramp and jump into the shallow
water and make your way forth to
the cannon located on the other
side of the pool (You should
probably know by now where it
is). Now, the fun begins.

Once you are in the cannon move
he crosshair around and you can
view two corners of a wall. One
corner is close to the cannon
and the other is much further
away from the other wall and the
cannon. Look for the pointed
wall that is further away from
the cannon and aim just barely
above it. Fire the cannon and
when your character plows into
the wall head first, it will
shatter and another Power Star
will be revealed. Now, make your
way up the white ramp again and
jump past the sleeping stupid
Pirhana Plant. Now, quickly get
across the collapsing bridge
where you will find the corner
of the wall, the Power Star is
just lying there on top of that
wall that was broken away, so
grab that Power Star and get out
of the course.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star of the
Fortress Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
except Yoshi
================================
I love mad dashes! Anyways, this
is your first Switch Star. A
Switch Star is where you must
locate a yellow Star shaped
switch, and then step on it. A
Star will appear inside a glass
dome somewhere else inside the
level, and you must get the Star
before time runs out. Otherwise,
the Star will disappear and you
must hit the switch again to
make the Star appear to restart
the chase for the Star. Anyways,
as long as your not Yoshi, head
to the right of where you start
and make your way across the
meadow, avoiding stupid Goombas
in your way, then jump over the
fence connecting the two areas
together. Now, there should be a
box nearby, so punch it and it
will reveal a Star Switch. You
can break this block as Yoshi,
however, if you swallow and
enemy and hit the block with an
egg. Anyways, hit the switch to
make the Star appear inside the
glass dome in the level. Let's
run!

Start running forward, past the
group of three Pirhana Plants
and a few Goombas and plenty of
posts. Now, jump over the fence
and over the crates that are
blocking you. Jump over the
small gap and use the crates
that lie infront of you as
stairs to reach the next section
of land. Make a turn, and the
Glass Dome that contains the
Star should be in perfect view.
Hurry up and get it before time
runs out. This Star wasn't too
hard really. But Switch Stars in
future levels are going to be
far more difficult, as they will
have very strict time limits and
you generally have to cross a
larger, more lethal distance in
order to reach where the Star is
located.

================================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
Whomp's Fortress is literally
loaded with Coins. You can find
them almost everywhere within
this level. However, you are
going to need to Punch, Kick,
and Ground Pound your way to
most of them, so Yoshi won't be
much help here. Mario is
definately the preferred
character you should use, but
Luigi works just as well. Start
off by turning around when you
start and kill the Pirhana Plant
in the flower patch for a Blue
Coin, worth five normal Coins.
Don't go up the hills just yet.

Keep heading along at the bottom
section of Whomp's Fortress
where you will see some Goombas
and a circle of coins that are
sitting, circling a flower
patch. Killing everything here
will net you another ten coins.
By now we should have around 15.
Not bad for a start. Head to the
fence and jump over it making
sure to land on the path. Break
the nearby four brick boxes to
collect three coins out of most
of them. Head up the ledge to a
few more flower patches. Two
Pirhana Plants will spring up,
so keep your distance until they
fall asleep. Then, tiptoe and
kill both of them for another
two Blue Coins, which is the
same as ten more Yellow Coins.
Run around the post that is
nearby a few times until five
more Yellow Coins pop out of it.
So far, we have only explored
one area of the fortress and we
should have 30-40 Coins by now.
This is a pretty decent start.

Now, head back to where you
started the course and head up
the hill to those things that
pop out of the wall at random
times once again. You'll find a
red coin that we collected
before, worth two Yellow Coins
so of course, collect it. Now,
head across the moving platforms
again and up the stairs where
the Thwomps are located and
avoid them. When you get past
the second one, wait for it to
stomp the ground, then jump on
top of him. At the apex of the
Thwomp's rise there will be
another red coin, worth two more
Yellow Coins so of course, grab
it.

Now, head off and continue to
the top of the stairs. Instead
of going right to the Pirhana
Plant, go straight and follow
the ramp down. On the ramp are
five more Yellow Coins. After
those coins jump into the
shallow pool of water and
collect the circle of eight
Yellow Coins perched near a
wall. Go over near the cannon
where another string of five
more Yellow Coins waits for you
to collect. Hop into the cannon
and blast to the pole like we
did a few Stars ago and go up to
the next platform for another
circle of eight Yellow Coins.
Jump off onto the ground and
find a Blue Coins Switch. These
switches, once Ground Pounded,
make a few Blue Coins appear
nearby for a limited time.
Activate the switch and collect
the four Blue Coins nearby for
another twenty Yellow Coins. At
this point, we should have
around 60 Coins. Time to find
the rest of them easily. Just so
you know, there's about another
140 coins in this level, so the
remainder to find isn't all that
challenging.

Now, head back to the grey ramp
that we came down forth earlier
and climb back up it. Head to
the left to where the Pirhana
Plant is sleeping like a baby,
tip toe up to him and kill him
with a Punch for another 5
Coins. Also, you should collect
the Red Coin that is lying
nearby. Now, don't go through
the collapsing bridge. Instead,
cross the narrow ledge that
contains another Red Coin
nearby. Right after you collect
that Red Coin you will be near
another Pirhana Plant. Kill him
with a Punch and collect his
Blue Coin. Now, wait until the
rotating platform comes to you
then run to the middle. When the
platform stops at the other
side, get onto the middle of the
walkway of the platform, and
wait for it to take you around
and collect four Yellow Coins
and a Red Coins.

By this point, you should have
at least 80 Coins. Now, actually
cross the platform to the other
side and wait for the Whomp to
fall down on you (But make sure
you get away just in time).
Then, jump on him five times.
Each time you jump on him you
get one Yellow Coin. After five
jumps, do a Ground Pound to
actually kill him, for another
five Coins. You should also do
this same technique for the
Whomp around the corner. By now,
you should have 100 Coins and
the Star should appear. If you
don't have 100 Coins yet, go up
the elevator and punch down the
board and collect about 20 or 25
Coins that are on the Floating
Islands. That should get you
your missing Coins.

==========================
~-Back to the Castle.....~
==========================
Back inside Peach's Castle, if
you already have gotten 3 Stars
and opened up all the doors
nothing new has happened. If you
already have eight or more Power
Stars you can now go and rescue
Mario. Obtaining Mario is
covered in a later section. For
now though, head to the right of
Whomp's Fortress and enter the 3
Star door there and enter the
painting for our next world.

--------------------------------
 ~V C.Course 3:Jolly Roger Bay~
--------------------------------
At the far left side of the main
lobby of the Castle is a door
with a 3 on it. This door leads
to Jolly Roger Bay, your first
water based level. Many new
things are going to happen
within this very level, so sit
tight and keep reading for the
strategies on the next 8 Stars
and a Castle Secret Star.

================================
Star 1-Plunder in the Sunken
Ship Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Welcome to Jolly Roger Bay! The
whole land is covered in for the
most part, surprise surprise,
water. But don't fret, this
isn't like most dreaded water
levels. It is actually quite
calm and relaxing. Anyways, in
this Star the object is to raise
the sunken ship far below the
surface of the water, by
entering it and opening a
special treasure chest. Sounds
fun doesn't it? Anyways, you
will start on a tiny beach of
land, so start off by walking
into the water infront of you.
Incase you have forgotten how to
swim, keep pushing Y at even
intervals to keep swimming. You
can push B and hold Down on the
surface to jump from the water.

Continue to swim on the surface
of the water until you come up
to some large sticks popping up
out of the ground really high.
After this you should be in a
large area of water. Now, start
swimming down into the depths of
the ocean here. Keep swimming
down (Holding Up on the D-Pad)
until the sunken ship comes into
view. Now, keep going until you
are swimming on the deck of the
ship. Try to swim around and
find a giant eel that is lodged
inside the window on the deck of
the ship. He will pop his head
out once or twice. Now, head
back up to the surface for air
to restore your Power Meter.
Now, head back down to the ship
and to the same window the eel
just was. He is out of the
window now, so swim inside it to
appear in the ship.

You are now inside of the sunken
ship. Swim around until you see
a treasure chest. Swim up to it,
and when it opens, start
swimming like a mad man towards
the bow of the ship. Why? The
ship is rising, and the water is
flowing out of the ship. Keep
swimming higher until you can't
swim higher anymore. If you are
close to the top (And you should
be) just carefully make a few
jumps to the very top platform
where the Star lies inside a !
Box. However, if you are stuck
down pretty far down the ship,
you are gonna have to make a lot
of careful jumps to reach the
top of the ship. Alternatively,
you can crouch down and climb
the wall that way, but it is
faster if you can jump good. If
not, start climbing the wall
because you don't have any other
options if you choose not to.
You could, of course, just
restart the level and try again
if jumping up the platforms is
too difficult for you. No matter
which method you use to reach
the top, hit the ! Box at the
top to recieve your shiny
reward.

================================
Star 2-Can the Eel Come Out to
Play? Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Oh, that is such a nice title.
Uh-huh, do you really want a
giant eel to come out and play
with you? Not to mention he
might just eat you (He doesn't
in the game but he should). Of
course, he has a Star attached
to the end of his tail, so that
peaks out intrest into getting
him into coming out to play with
us. So, start off as usual by
swimming into the waters. Keep
going straight and straight,
past the two large poles from
the water until you reach the
wall on the far end side. Now,
start to swim down and down and
down....but DON'T swim right up
at the wall. Keep a little
distance between you and the
wall. Eventually you will come
across a hole in the wall, which
is the eel's home. He is still
there, so stay beneith him as he
pops his head out in rage.

After a few seconds of roaring,
he will slowly come out of his
home in the seaweed and he will
start to swim around in the
ocean for about thrity seconds
before he goes back to his home
in the seaweed. The Star is
attached to the very end of his
tail. While he is coming out of
his home you can easily touch
the Star there, otherwise you
gonna half to swim around for
him to get it. Once you touch
the Star on his tail it will
float over to a location that is
right near his home, so go get
your reward for playing with
that jerk. At least your not
food for Unagi.

================================
Star 3-Treasure in the Ocean
Cave Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Just as the title of the Star
suggests, you will be out
hunting treasure that is located
somewhere in an ocean cave.
Start out, as usual, by jumping
into the water ahead of you and
swimming past those same two
pillars, every time, and heading
for the now risen ship. When you
reach that floating ship, start
to dive under the water and keep
moving to the left. Eventually,
you will come across a cirlce of
coins under the water, with a
cave opening right behind it.
How convenient can this possibly
get. You can get a 1-Up if you
swim through the rings of coins.
It's difficult to reach in the
water, though, so be careful if
you attempt to grab it.

If you are having any trouble
finding the exact location of
the entrance to the ocean cave,
remember that the overhead map
on the Touch Screen shows to
location of the Star so you
should find the entrance near
that too. Once you have swum
into the entrance you will
finally be on dry land again.
However, in this old pirates
cave, some old Cap'n has set off
plenty of booby traps, along
with a few Goombas, to protect
his treasure.

Now that you are finally in the
Ocean Cave, start to walk
forward. You will hear a strange
sound, and may see a giant
pillar falling towards you! This
was the booby trap I was telling
you about earlier. Somebody set
up a lot of pillars around the
Ocean Cave and made them set off
when any unwelcomed visitor
walked in. It just doesn't seem
like the best security system to
me. Walk around the Ocean Cave
being sure to not get smashed by
those falling pillars. If you
do, it's your health on the
line, but they do minimal damage
so you don't need to worry.

When you reach the end of the
Ocean Cave you will see a group
of four treasure chests. This is
the treasure the signposts are
referring to. However, there is
a riddle. You have to open all
four chests in a certain order
to collect your Star. I am going
to give you the correct
combonation for opening the
Treasure Chests. I am going to
assume you are standing in front
of the first one, facing their
keyholes. Anyways, open the
chest to the very far back most.
After touching it's lock, it
will open up, and the number one
will be revealed. Next, touch
the treasure chest in the far
left and touch its lock to open
it up, revealing the number two.
Now, open the chest in the far
right and touch its lock again
to have it open. The number
three will appear. Now, open the
final chest in the front. It
will open when you touch its
lock and a Star will appear in
the center of all the chests,
yours for the taking.

================================
Star 4-Blast to the Stone Pillar
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
================================
There are two different ways you
can use to tackle this Star. It
is your option which path you
want to take. It makes no
difference which. The goal is
the same-to reach a small piece
of land jutting from the wall of
the world and break the ! Box to
reveal a Star. Simple, but
getting there is the difficult
part of the task. Okay, here's
the longer but more loyal path.
See infront of where you start
in the water is a small grey
hill with a cannon cover?
Remember that, we will be coming
back to that shortly.

Start swimming towards the right
side of the level until you
reach a platform and some land.
Jump onto the platform on the
water and use that as a boost in
order to get to the land on the
right side of it. Right there is
the Bob-omb Buddy that we are
looking for. Talk to him and he
will open up the Cannon Cover.
Now, easily swim all the way
back to the cannon near the
start. Hop inside the cannon at
the top of that tiny grey hill.
Once inside manuver the
crosshairs until you find those
pillars sticking up from the
water that we have passed like
on every previous Star. Aim a
little above the very top of the
pillar and fire away! You should
grab onto the pillar (Your
character CANNOT grab onto the
fat part of the pillar!). Now,
have your back facing the little
platform near the pillar and
jump. Break open the box there
and claim the Star. If you miss,
either being too low or too
high, you will need to swim back
to the cannon and try again.
However, there is a much easier
way to obtain this Star.

You need to be Mario to do this
technique. At start head to the
right near those wondering
Goombas. They are standing near
a Red ! Box. Break open the box
with Mario for a Power Flower to
make him inflated like a
balloon. Keep pushing B to make
Mario gain height, and manuver
his way over to that piece of
land that has the Star in the
box on it. You have to be quick
though, you won't have much time
to get over to that island.
However, this way is much faster
and easier than taking the
cannon, however it is faster to
take the cannon if already
unlocked. Mistakes are easy to
make in each option, and it is a
long swim back to try again!
There is also a Red ! Box near a
! Switch to the right of the
platform with the Star on it.
You can attempt to float to the
platform from here if you wish.

================================
Star 5-Red Coins on the Ship
Afloat Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Once again, you will have to
look high and low for all eight
Red Coins hidden within this
level. Half of them are actually
hidden from view, and if you
can't find them, you have come
to the right place to look where
their locations just might be.
This Star isn't so bad. If you
somehow get injured, just hop in
the water and surface to the top
to refill your life meter. Let's
get started!

First start off by jumping into
the water like you must have
done in almost every single Star
so far. Repetitive isn't it?
Swim down, but not too far where
you will see two clams right
near each other. One of the
clams, when you get close to
them, contains a Koopa Shell. It
is quite pointless to ride
underwater as it just makes you
swim a little faster for about
10 seconds. Go near the clam
that is close to that one and he
will open up to reveal our first
Red Coin. Awesome, one red Coin
down and just seven more to go!

Now, you should surface for more
air unless that previous Red
Coin gave you your Air back, in
which case you should keep on
swimming under water. Swim down
into the next section which is
deeper than the clam we just
found. Keep going until you see
two clams on the left and one on
the right. Go to the one on the
right and get close to him. He
will open up and he will reveal
Red Coin number two, simply
sitting there just waiting to be
taken. Grab this as well.

Now, it is off to finding Red
Coin number three Actually, it
is right next to Red Coin number
two. I said before to choose the
clam on the left didn't I? Now,
go back a few feet and choose
the clam on the right and wait
for him to open up, and he will
reveal another Red Coin, just
lying there begging to be taken
by you. That's three down!

Now, keep swimming forward,
going all the way to the very
bottom of the level, where
another clam is perched near
some seaweed. I do believe that
you are capable of figuring out
what to do form there. Collect
your fourth Red Coin that lies
inside that stupid clam. But
don't worry, there aren't
anymore Red Coins that can be
found inside clams (Not like
that is hard or anything, just
repetitve).

Now, swim back to the surface
quickly so we avoid the risk of
running out of air and suffering
a horrible death. Do any of you
remember where that Bob-omb
Buddy was that you (Should have)
talked to a few Stars ago? Swim
to the surface and swim to the
right side of the level and then
jump onto the platform floating
in the water. Then, jump onto
the platform the Bob-omb Buddy
is happily trotting on. Right
next to the platform you are
currently standing on is another
large, tall pillar sticking up
from the water. Climb this
pillar all the way to the top.
Do a Handstand (There is no
neccessity to jump) and you will
have collected your fifth Red
Coin. Now we are about to enter
the home streach for wrapping up
this Star! Let's keep going and
stay focused!

Go back to the platform that is
on the water then go to the
other side and jump on that
large platform there. There is
no need to hit the ? Red Block
there, unless you'd rather float
to your destination. Activate
the ! Switch by stepping over
it, then carefully go over the
next few platforms that lead to
the risen ship. They are very
thin, so don't do any dashing
unless falling off doesn't
bother you whatsoever (you can
also use Mario's floating powers
to reach the ship). Once you
reach the end of the path, wait
for the ship to tilt close to
you, then jump aboard. Stay near
the bow of the ship and wait for
the front of the ship to tilt
upwards. It will reach high
enough for your next Red Coin to
come into view, so quickly jump
and reach it for Red Coin Number
Six! However, likewise I already
said, it is easier to use
Mario's Balloon Power from a
Power Flower to quickly and
easily reach the ship, and even
better, reach the Red Coin that
is on the bow even if the ship
is tilting away from it!

Now, head for the stern of the
ship. You will need to use a
Triple Jump to get over the wall
and onto the back of the ship.
Fortunately, there is plenty of
deck space to pull a quick and
easy Triple Jump together to
reach the back of the ship. Once
you are on the back of the ship
you should easily see the blue
star marker, signifying that is
where the Power Star will appear
after getting these last two Red
Coins. Wait for the back of the
ship to tilt upwards, and those
last two final Red Coins will
finally come into view. Quickly
catch both of them before the
ship tilts away from them and
you have to wait for the back-
tilt again just to reach them.
The Power Star will, like I
already said, appear just a few
inches away from you, so easily
grab it to clear this Star.

================================
Star 6-Switch Star of the Bay
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi needed
================================
Oh boy! This is your second
Switch Star. If you read what I
said at the end of the Switch
Star star in Whomp's Fortress I
clearly said "You won't always
be just running to the Star...".
That is true here. As Luigi,
start swimming and keep going
past those pillars once again,
and as you reach the middle of
the rather large lagoon, start
swimming into the depths of this
ocean. Like you did before,
locate the entrance to the Ocean
Cave. It is easily marked by
those circlce of coins, so you
can't miss it. Once you have
surfaced inside the cave, you
should find a Goomba wearing a
Luigi Cap nearby if you aren't
Luigi already. Anyways, I hope
you get ready for some fun!

We are, of course, inside the
wonderous Ocean Cave. As Luigi
(or at least wearing his Cap)
Hit the Red ? Block nearby, and
grab the Power Flower. Luigi
will turn invisible. This is his
Flower Power. He can walk
through walls and enemies and
not get detected, well for at
least a short time. Try the cap
out on those falling pillars.
They go right though you don't
they. Go near Goombas and they
won't notice you (You can easily
see yourself, but they can't).
After you have finished looking
at the cool stuff with this
power, hit the Red ? Block again
to get another Power Flower to
turn invisible. Hurry along and
stay near the right side of the
Ocean Cave's wall until you find
the Star Switch. Hit it!

To your surprise, the Star will
appear in a Glass Dome behind a
gate wall. Oh boy. The timer is
ticking down for the Switch
Star, and your Flower Power is
going to wear off soon. There
isn't much time. Quickly start
long jumping your way to the
gate, then run through it while
invisible. Just one of the
powers of being invisible-
walking through walls. Break the
Glass Dome for your Power Star
reward! If you run out of time,
you will need to go back and
rehit the switch to place the
Star into the dome.

================================
Star 7-Through the Jet Stream
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed
================================
I'm sure that this whole time in
the lagoon you have surely seen
a Power Star just sitting in a
pile of bubbles. If you tried to
get it you would have found it
to be impossible because the
rapid air is pushing you in an
upward motion. However, this is
one way you can obtain this
Star. You need to be Wario, or
at least get his cap within the
level so you can be him, so
start your swimming and trek
over to the floating platform in
the water on the far right side
of the level that we have been
to a few times previously. Once
you have jumped on just cross
over to the platform that is to
the left of it (With the switch
that leads to the floating ship,
that platform) Once you are
finally on that platform as
Wario, and not anybody else, hit
the Red ? Block for a Power
Flower. It will turn Wario all
metallic. He has awesome powers
because he is metallic!

For one thing, you don't have to
breathe. Period. Oh boy...Next,
you can simply bulldoze your way
through almost anything just by
touching it. Enemies instantly
die and give up their coins once
touched in your metallic form.
Also, you can't swim. You walk
underwater. That final trait is
what is gonna help you retrieve
this Power Star in the Jet
Stream. Once you are Metal
Wario, quickly jump off of the
platform into the deep deep
lagoon. Wario will be falling to
the very bottom and once you are
at the bottom you can control
his walking again. Walk over to
the Jet Stream, which can't push
you anywhere because you are so
heavy. Just simply jump to claim
your shiny Star as a prize.

If you need to get this Star and
you haven't unlocked Wario yet,
then head into the ocean cave.
There is a Goomba in here who is
wearing a Wario Cap. Kill him
and collect the cap, then head
to the area in the
aforementioned paragraph.

================================
Star 8-100 Coins Star
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
There aren't too many Coins
stuck inside Jolly Roger Bay.
Infact, I estimate about 140
Coins. You better be quick at
collecting coins from enemies
because they can mean
everything. However, there are a
ton of Blue Coins in the
beginning to make up for the
lack of Yellow Coins. Start off
by turning to your right and
killing the few Goombas that are
wondering nearby. Now, go over
to the 2 brick blocks. Destroy
the one that was closest to you
when you started the world. It
will spit out 3 Yellow Coins.
Now, Ground Pound the nearby
Blue Coin Switch to make a
massive amount of Blue Coins
appear on the surface of the
water. Quickly break the other
block to reveal a Koopa shell.
Ride it quickly over the water
to collect all of the Blue Coins
before they all disappear. There
are eight wonderful Blue Coins.
A hefty sum indeed. We have just
started the level, and by now,
you should have at least fourty
Coins. That didn't take to long
to collect.

To save time, ride the Koopa
Shell all the way back to the
beginning of the level and crash
into the wall. It will break and
you won't be riding it anymore.
Anyways, jump into the water and
start swimming down. There will
be a tiny submerged pillar
sticking out of the ground
underwater and there are eight
Yellow Coins circling around the
little pointy thing. After
collecting all eight keep going
until you see a clam. One clam
has a Koopa Shell that you can
ride for a few seconds
underwater, but it is really
pointless. The other clam shell
nearby has a Red Coin inside of
it, so grab that. By this point
in time you should have at least
fifty Coins. Were doing damn
good! Come back to the surface
for air if you need it, and
prepare to dive right back down
again.

Keep swimming on the surface now
until you reach those tall
pillars sticking out from the
water that you have passed on
practically every Star you have
done already and around one of
those pillars is another circle
of eight Yellow Coins. Awesome,
and by now you should have at
least sixty Coins or more if you
have done some exploring on your
own. Head back to the surface if
you haven't already and swim to
the far right side of the level
now and hop on top of the
platform in the water and head
to the right, then jump on top
of the pole there and climb to
the top to find a Red Coin. You
just can not argue with an easy
two Coins. Now, head back to the
left across the platform in the
water and head up onto the
adjacent platform with a !
Switch and a ? Red Block on it.
Activate the ! Switch to create
a temporary pathway between the
platforms infront of you. There
are a total of five Coins on
each of the platforms that lie
infront of you, so collect all
fifteen Yellow Coins. At this
point in time you should have at
least Seventy Five or even more
Coins. Not too bad.

Continue along the platforms
however and board the risen ship
again. Grab the three Red Coins
that are hanging above the ship.
If you can't reach them easily,
wait for the tilt of the ship to
rock the ship high so you can
easily jump into the three
suspended Red Coins. Now, jump
into the water and start
swimming torwards the very
bottom of the lagoon here. You
should find another clam which
contains another Red Coin,
perfect for the taking. Also,
you can find some of the
character Caps near many strings
of Coins. I can't say for sure
how many strings of Coins there
are exactly, but there are a
few. Also, head for the Ocean
Cave entrance and collect the
circle of coins underwater near
it. By now, if you have followed
everything, you should have at
least One Hundered Yellow Coins.
Your shiny Star should appear.
If you don't have 100 Coins just
yet, go into the ocean cave and
kill all the enemies there and
collect the coins near the walls
of the cave. If you STILL don't
have enough then there are still
a few Red Coins that I didn't
cover yet. If you don't have 100
Coins at that point, I don't
think it is very possible to get
the Star. Exit the level and
come back to retry this annoying
challenge for the rare Coins!
Remember, there may be a few
Goombas somewhere in the level
you may not have killed yet;
they just might have your
missing Coin(s)!

=====================
~The Secret Aquarium~
=====================
Near the door that leads back to
the lobby from Jolly Roger Bay
is a little hole in the wall.
Jump inside it for a seret Star
challenge. You are inside a
giant aquarium! There is no way
of getting any air. The object
is to collect all eight Red
Coins. Pretty simple really. No
detailed explainations are
needed. Simply, there are four
circles or coins in the upper
half of the aquarium. In the
center of all four of these coin
circles lies a Red Coin. After
you have easily collected four
Red Coins, swim down to the
bottom of the aquarium. There
are another four Red Coins down
here. There is one Red Coin in
each corner of the room. After
you have collected all eight of
the Red Coins, your Star will
appear in the bottom, center of
the room. This is an absurdly
easy Castle Secret Star to
obtain right now, so you might
as well just get it out of the
way.

=========================
~Back to the Castle.....~
=========================
By now you should have access to
every door in the lobby except
the Big Star Door, depending on
how many Stars you have and who
you have unlocked. Let's
continue to the left side of the
lobby and enter the 3 Star Door
there too, and get ready to
enter the next painting of
snowballs.

--------------------------------
     ~V D.Course 4:Cool, Cool Mo
--------------------------------
You have finally made it to your
first snow-themed world! Cool,
Cool Mountain! The paths are all
slippery, I warn you, and evil
snowmen are you to whack you
with their mighty snowballs.
More annoyingly is how this is a
mountain suspended in air, so
one wrong move and you may be
sliding off the mountain. Try
not to do that. You can enter
this course by entering the door
on the bottom left side of the
lobby with a "3" marked on its
Star. Have fun. Snow levels are
far more fun then what they
probably sound like.

=============================
Star 1-Slip Slidin' Away
Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Ever felt the need for speed
while sliding on your butt down
a giant slide made of ice? Well,
I'm sure you haven't but that is
exactly your mission today! As
soon as you enter Cool, Cool
Mountain, you will get a message
saying to enter the cabin that
lies only a few feet in front of
you. It's a shame that there
isn't a door. However, a nearby
sign kindly tells you to act
like Santa. So, hop onto the
roof of the cabin and jump into
the chimney. Oh boy, what fun!
You will appear at the top of a
huge slide, as you can easily
tell by your trusty map on the
Touch Screen. Get ready to race
down this here slide! Start off
by running for the slide, and
you will instantly be sitting on
your butt sliding down it.

The controls for sliding are
pretty simple. Hold Up to slide
faster, hold Down to slow down,
and move left and right (You
don't move very quickly though,
so be aware of that in turns).
Keep on sliding down at whatever
pace is safest for you and
carefully turn right around the
first turn. In a few seconds you
will pass over a small gap, but
at whatever speed the hill of
the slide makes you cross over.
Now, you will take a quick right
turn, followed by a very sharp
left turn. Now, you have two
choices on the path you want to
take.

You can now take the shortcut
path, or the real path. You can
take the shortcut if you don't
want to easily die. However, you
are gonna be doing this course
again, in a race, with no
shortcuts allowed! It's your
choice. Anyways for the
shortcut, right after that sharp
left turn you will find a string
of five Yellow Coins leading
into a wall. Should be fairly
obvious. Follow the coins into
the wall and you will pass
through the wall into a super
secret shortcut. Your in a big
tunnel, no way to possible die.
Isn't that great? Just hold up
to quickly pass through the
tunnel easily and you will be
spit out inside the ending
cabin, the finish line. You can
earn a few wondering 1-Ups when
you are sliding down the tunnel.
(I'll discuss what happens next
soon.)

However, if you want practice
(And I highly suggest you do!)
then instead of following the
coin path, follow the slide to
another right turn. The path
will slowly curve to the left,
only to bring you to two ninety
degree turns! This is the
hardest part of the track. The
slide is tilting toward the
edge, so I suggest staying near
the inside of the track, close
to the edge. Why? The track
doesn't tilt there. You will
need speed to pass through these
tight curves without falling
off. If you attempt to hug the
outside of the track, the hills
will probably push you off the
course. It's better to risk
going on the inside of the turns
than the outside. After passing
through Dead Man's Curves you
will go into a small hill, then
the path will tilt in a circle
inside a tunnel to the right.
Then for the finale, you will go
over a thin ice bridge (Non
collapsing) and pass the finish
line. Which ever path you took
makes no difference. Either way,
head out of the cabin door to
the left and out comes your
Star, so go ahead and claim your
bounty.

================================
Star 2-Li'l Penguin Lost
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
Ah yes. I hope you aren't a
mugger or something because in
this mission you are required to
act like the good guy and help
return a lost baby penguiun to
its mother. Doesn't that just
sound great? Start off the
course again by jumping up to
the chimney, but don't go into
it. Instead, jump up to the next
ledge above you. You should be
able to easily see a baby
penguin waddling around up here
and crying for attention. If you
are Yoshi, you can't grab the
penguin. This will just make the
penguin freak out if you put him
into your mouth. You will spit
him out no matter what. Grab him
with Mario, Luigi, or Wario and
prepare for a frosty slide! Go
back to where you pretty much
started and turn around and walk
on the short path until you
reach a bridge that is broken.
Look downwards. You should see a
giant side of the mountain with
a giant ice block on land far
below. Walk off the edge of the
bridge and slide down the side
of the mountain but make sure
you jump before you reach the
land at the end of it!
Otherwise, with your momentum
you will keep going, and off the
side you will plummet to your
doom!

Now you should see that giant
ice block. It is quite difficult
to miss, as you should have
landed right next to it.
Continue to the left and when
you reach the edge of this
little platform you should go
into close-up Camera View and
look down to make sure you see a
ledge. Now, continue forward and
if you look to your left, you
should see a giant bridge, this
time with the middle collapsed.
Save that memory for a later
Star, however. Contine following
the dirt path until you reach a
hill going down shortly
afterwards. A Mr. Blizzard
(Those are the snowmen) will pop
up in the middle of this hill.
He'll attempt to throw snowballs
at you. If they hit, you will
drop the pengiun. If that
happens, pick him up before he
walks over and gets lost. Avoid
the Mr. Blizzard, and reach the
resting point with another
enemy. Avoid all enemies because
if hit, you drop the penguin.
Now, follow the wooden ramp down
to the very bottom of the
mountain where the giant Mother
Penguin lies. Bring the penguin
up to her and she will talk to
you and you will be awarded with
a Star.

However, if you wanna play a
funny joke on the Mother
Penguin, go to the tree that
lies right near Mother Penguin.
Get on a Handstand at the very
top of it and jump to the top of
the cabin (The one you exit from
in Star 1). There will be
another penguin crying on this
roof. Go ahead and bring it to
the Mother Penguin. Mother
Penguin will cry that it isn't
her baby and then you just let
go of the penguin. There's
nothing else but that funny
conversation, and it isn'
necessary to do to get anything.

=============================
Star 3-Big Penguin Race
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Like you did in Star 1, head
into the chimney of the nearby
cabin. Instead of absolutely
nothing blocking your way to the
frosty slide, a big penguin
(Father Penguin?) is standing
there. Get near him and he will
challenge you to a race to the
bottom of the slide. First one
there wins and gets to keep the
prize, which is a Star in this
case. Start off quickly, holding
Up the whole time. Get past the
calm first right turn and don't
lose focus when you jump over
the following gap. Keep your
speed steady as you make your
way through the tight right
turn, folowed by an even tighter
left turn. Now, DON'T take the
shortcut! If you do, once you
and the penguin reach the finish
he will accuse you of a cheater
(he's so mean).

Now, you are gonna quickly
approach the two big hairpin
turns. Stay at the inside of the
track, keep your speed pretty
high, and just follow the turn
you will then find yourself
heading into the final phase of
the slide (again) by going down
a short but pretty big hill,
then circle around in a tunnel
all the while gaining speed,
make sure to keep yourself in
the middle of the track! Now,
you will go across a thin ice
bridge in the middle of the
track, and then cross the finish
line. If you beat the big
penguin (And you should have
done so with ease) then just
wait in the cabin for the big
penguin to cross the finish
line. He will waddle around for
a few seconds and then give you
the Star for crushing his
record.

It's best that, during the race,
to stay just behind the penguin.
If you get ahead of him, he will
speed up really fast to get
ahead of you, and barely tends
to slow down. Try to overtake
him just at the end so he
doesn't have enough time to
speed up. Also make sure you
don't leave the cabin at the
end, otherwise you will have to
beat the penguin all over again.

================================
Star 4-Frosty Slide for 8 Red
Coins Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Yoshi
needed
================================
Whoopee! Another frantic chase
for another eight shiny Red
Coins. This time around we have
to search everywhere on the
mountain just to find all of
them. This sounds fun doesn't
it? Just so you know you will be
finding a few Red Coins inside
large blocks of ice, which can
only be melted and accessed by
Yoshi. So, here we go! Start off
as usual by jumping on top of
the chimney but not falling
down. Jump up to the ledge above
you and walk to the right, down
a little slope until you reach a
campfire....which should be
extingished by now, but
whatever. Have Yoshi eat the
campfire (That's gonna hurt
tomorrow) and walk back up that
same slope until you reach an
ice block near that penguin that
got lost again. Have Yoshi spit
out the fire (With the A button
again) which will melt that dumb
ice block which will reveal the
first Red Coin.

Now you have one Red Coin in
your posssion. Next, from where
you are standing now go back to
where you started and go to the
broken bridge that is behind
where you first started. Run off
the bridge and start quickly
sliding down the mountain for a
few seconds. When the land gets
flat again at that little
section, jump and make a Ground
Poind so you don't go sliding
off the edge, which just leads
to your quick death. Once you
are on this little section of
land you should see another ice
block. Walk around the ice block
and you should see another
campfire. Awesome. Like you just
did a few seconds ago, gobble up
the campfire and unleash the
breath on the ice block, which
will promptly melt away into
nothing. The ice block will
leave a Red Coin behind. Collect
the second coin.

Now after collecting your second
Red Coin, turn around, and
continue to walk until you walk
off the edge onto the ground of
the mountain again. You will
know if you are in the right
place if you see a giant
snowball's head infront of you.
If that Snowball is there, head
to the right and stay along the
mountainside. Eventually you
will come upto a Bob-omb Buddy,
who when talked to will show you
the locations of all the Red
Coins on your Touch Map (But
only for as long as you talk to
it). Anyways, after finishing
that conversation, you will
easily find your third Red Coin
lying conveniently right next to
where the Bob-omb Buddy is. Grab
the coin.

The fourth Red Coin,
fortunately, isn't far away at
all. Simply turn around from
where you were from getting the
previous Red Coin, and head back
towards the bodyless Snowman.
Head to the right and you should
fall down a short ledge, and be
near the edge of the world. Head
to the left, following the path
until you fall into yet another
little ledge, which is the top
stop for the gondola ride. Here,
is where you fourth Red Coin
awaits. Not too bad, halfway
there!

Jump back up two levels so you
are even on the path with the
giant snowball head and the long
bridge, which should be at this
point right next to you. Head
across that long bridge.
However, there are two Mr.
Blizzards that are kindly
hopping back and forth on it. If
you get hurt you will be bumped
back, and possibly off the edge
of the world. That's not good.
When the Mr. Blizzard in front
of you is in the air, quickly
run under him and repeat that
same process for the next one
that guards your path. After
that bridge you will find a
wooden pathway leading
downwards, and another ledge to
the left of you. Jump up onto
that ledge. The only thing here
is another bridge, but the
middle of it is broken and
missing. On the remaining side
closest to you, however, lies
another thing. Your fifth Red
Coin. Grab the Coin, and prepare
to move on.

Awesome, now your almost there.
The remaining few Coins are
easily gotten. Head back off the
ledge again, and onto the wooden
pathway. Follow it down and you
will start to slide down on the
snowy path ahead of you for a
second or two, and then be back
on another wooden pathway.
Follow the next pathway down to
the every bottom of Cool, Cool
Mountain. Once you are off the
wooden path and on snow, head to
the right near the cannon, but
don't go inside it. You should
see a tree that is right next to
the cannon. I wonder what could
be at the top of this tree.
Quickly jump onto it and climb
to the top, and push up until
you do a Handstand. The
Handstand is high enough for you
to grab the Sixth Red Coin. Now,
climb back down the tree.

From where you are now (at the
bottom of that tree), head over
to the right, stopping (or not)
to visit Mother Penguin. Soon
enough you will reach another
wooden bridge that is extending
out way over an empty abyss, and
connects to a small island where
another wooden bridge is
connected to that, but ends so
you would just walk right off if
you did. If you were to stand on
the end of that second bridge
you would be warped back to
start. Anyways, you will easily
find your Seventh Red Coin on
that small island that both
bridges are connected to.

Now it is time to find the last
and final Red Coin. The position
of the last Coin usually stumps
a decent amount of the players
that first did this level. Isn't
that funny? And come to think of
it, the Red Coin lies a few feet
from where Coin seven was.
Simply head back away from the
previous bridges and farther to
the right. You will eventually
reach the end of the mountain.
Heh, and wouldn't you know?
There is your last Red Coin,
tucked away at the very corner
of the wall, right next to the
edge. Walk very carefully to
make sure you don't fall off the
edge. If you hit the wall,
you'll just slide off of it.
However, you will probably then
end up sliding off the level.
Avoid doing so. Getting the
final coin makes the Power Star
appear.

Remember that broken bridge near
Red Coin five? The Power Star
happens to appear on the other
end of that same bridge.
However, it is pretty simple to
make your way back up there
again. Head all the way back to
the left, left and left some
more, past Mother Penguin until
you reach the Gondala Ride. Get
yourself onto it, and the
gondala will automatically start
moving and it will make its way
up the mountain to the very spot
where we saw the fourth Red
Coin, right near the long
bridge. Head across the long
bridge, making sure to avoid
those nasty Mr. Blizzards and
head up the ledge to the broken
bridge. You have two options of
making it across with Yoshi. You
can either take a step back and
quickly run forward and before
you reach the end of your
section of bridge, make a long
jump and you hopefully aimed
corectly at the other side. Or,
you can double jump with Yoshi,
and use his Flutter Kick to make
it over to the other side.
Either way, whichever path you
choose, collect your Power Star.

==============================
Star 5-Snowman's Lost His Head
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
==============================
I'm sure that by now you have
all encountered the large
bodyless Snowman that lies near
the bridge with the hopping Mr.
Blizzards right? I'm sure you
must have felt sorry for him,
but now is the time to finally
help him turn that frown upside
down with his new body! From
where you start head up over the
chimmney and onto the ledge
above it where that baby penguin
is still crying. Head down the
little hill to the left and you
will see a tiny snowball on a
tiny platform. Walk up to the
snowball and it will explain its
situation. You see, the snowball
is without a head. He asks you
if you know any good places
where he can find a head to
connect to. Don't you know
someone who could use a good
body?

Yep, it's that snow-head near
the midpoint of the mountain.
After you finish talking to the
snowball, agree into leading him
towards his new home. He will
stand still on the platform for
a few seconds, use this time to
jump off of the wooden area you
are currently on, and start
sliding down the mountain as
fast as you possibly can. The
snowball will follow your path.
It will grow bigger and bigger,
rolling faster and faster too.
Hurry along through the
mountain, past that really hard
180-Degree turn. By now the
giant snowball is possibly in
view! Oh my! There isn't too
much time too lose! Keep sliding
until the land comes flat again.
Then jump to be back on your
feet again, and now it is time
to run like hell to the final
destination before the snowball
comes around the bend.

Your final destination is, of
course, the snowman's head
himself. Run over to it as
quickly as you can and get near
him to talk to him. The sad
snowball head will look gloomly
at you and ask you to find a
body for him. It should be
coming right on cue. Stay there
to the side of the snowman and
quickly manuver the camera until
you can see the giant snowball
rolling quickly at you. You
should be facing it to make the
snowball roll towards you,
otherwise it will just roll of
the mountainside. Right before
it hits you, dodge out of its
way, and it will hopefully crash
into the snow-heads head. The
fully completed snowman will be
very delighted with his new
body, and he will hand over a
Star.

I'm not sure what triggers the
snowball to crash off the
mountain or not, the detection
for it is very finnicky. I have
the most success standing behind
the snow head, but even that
sometimes fails. Just keep
retrying the level if you fail
until you finally get the
snowball to crash into the head.

================================
Star 6-Mario's Super Wall Kick
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario (Go figure)
================================
Yes, you have little choice
whether or not to go into this
world as Mario. If your not
Mario, you can easily find his
Cap elsewhere in the level.
Mario does have a special Wall
Kick doesn't he? Well, it now is
time to put that famous Wall
Kick of his to the test. Start
off by turning around from where
you start and head onto the
broken bridge. Wait at the end
of it for a few seconds to get
warped down to the very bottom
of the mountain.

Awesome, you are at the very
bottom of the mountain. The
position that we need to be in.
Now, head across the bridges
that you are standing on, and go
back to solid ground. Head all
the way to the left, and even
past Mother Penguin until you
see a cannon cover on the
ground, with that old tree right
next to it. Right near the
cannon cover is the easiest way
too suicide-fall off the level.
However, near the cannon too is
a small gondala. Oh boy!

Simply jump onto the gondala,
and within a few seconds of you
doing so it will start moving
slowly up the side of the
mountain on its chains. There is
no need to worry about cliche
stuff, the rope won't break or
anything. In the middle of your
ride you will see a floating
island with a Switch Star
Button, a tree, and the most
important factor for this Star,
the Bob-omb Buddy. Jump off of
the gondala ride and carefully
get onto the island and then
talk to the Bob-omb Buddy. She
will kindly and promptly open
the cannon for you to use to
reach our next destination. Now,
you just need to wait.

Wait for the gondala to slowly
make its way back to your
position. When it finally gets
to you, jumpback onto it and
ride it all the way back to the
bottom of the mountain. Now,
with your newly opened Cannon,
simply jump into it and prepare
to fire away at the destination.
Look around for a tree that is
across the large gap and is
pretty even in elevation to
where you are looking.
Obviously, if you were to aim
right at the tree, you wouldn't
come anywhere near hitting the
tree. You'd undershoot it and
fall to your death. Same here.
You are going to need to shoot
pretty high. Shoot up at the
mountainside's roof (As I call
it) but not too high. The exact
position is slightly hard to
determine. Don't worry about
hitting the roof, Mario should
arc perfectly if you did it
right. If you were lucky enough
and choose the right position
for the cannon you will
hopefully grab onto the tree in
the distance. However, a shot
aimed too high will cause Mario
to hit his head on the wall and
fall to his death. Too low, you
won't even make it close to that
tree. Either way, you are pretty
much dead if you can hit the
tree.

Now, slide down off the tree,
and you will be greeted with a
thin, not to mention long ledge
with a few enemies wondering
aimlessly on it. Oh what fun
this is going to give us. Walk
along the path that simply
continues to get narrower and
narrower, punching the Flower-
like enemies that are currently
occupying the ledge at that same
time too. Clear the way, and
cross the bend to another
portion of the mountain. Here,
you will be greeted with a large
gap. But I'm sure that by now we
know just how to handle things
like this. In case you've
forgotten (shame if you did), it
is the Long Jump technique. Get
across the long gap. Pass
through the heart there if you
lost any health so far.

You should be on a slanted hill
right now, with another hill
right near you. Get on that
hill, which will continue to
slowly rise and then you will
come to a wall. Doesn't everyone
just love walls? Stand back, and
get a good running start. Before
hitting the wall, perform a
Double Jump, and then when you
hit the wall, Mario will start
sliding down it. You can push B
again to make him do his famous
Wall Jump during this time,
which will propel you higher
from the boost from the wall.
Now you are on a higher piece of
land, here comes the final
stretch!

Now that you are on this higher
piece of land, start dashing,
and keep the camera behind Mario
for the best view as to know
when to execute your jumps.
Eventually, you will see a large
gap. Stop there and look at the
wall. Pretty un-even wall isn't
it right there? There isn't much
choice right now. Head back a
little ways, then start running.
Perform a Triple Jump into the
wall, with your final Jump at
the very edge of the platform
you are on right now. If you did
it successfully, you will start
sliding down the wall, so Wall
Kick onto the final platform. If
you missed, you'll be back at
the Spinning Heart to recover
any damage taken, so you need to
do your Wall Kicks all over
again. You may be able to clear
this wall jump with only a
Double Jump, but its fairly
tricky and often you won't get
enough height in order to make
the jump. The final platform is
simple. Carefully cross the
bridge of ice and on the
platform that comes afterword,
your shining Power Star is
waiting.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star of Cool, Cool
Mountain Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
needed
================================
We have had some experience with
Switch Stars before, and like I
said again and again, its never
just running towards that Star
in a Dome. Anyways, whoever you
are, start off again like before
be turning around and following
the path to that broken bridge
again. Wait on the end of it for
a few seconds to get transported
to the very bottom of Cool, Cool
Mountain. Here, I hope you are
prepared, because the actual
switching, and the actual
Starring are coming up!

If you aren't Wario yet, grab
the Wario Cap one of the Goombas
is wearing right near where you
are on the bridges. Finally,
when you are Wario, head over to
Mother Penguin and go to her
frozen waddling pool. Go into
close up Shoulder Camera view,
and look down. You can see the
glass dome under the ice! We
shall worry about this later.
For now, head over to the
cannon, and continue past it.
Head over and hop onto the
gondala for a short ride to our
good old pal-The Switch.

About halfway through the
Gondala Ride you will see that
floating island with the lonely
tree and the Bob-omb Buddy on
it, doing very little to pass
the time away. However, there
also happens to be a Switch on
this island too (I'm sure by now
from previous Stars that you
must have noticed it too). So go
ahead and walk on the Switch to
activate it. You will find out
the Star is in that glass dome
under Mother Penguin's frozen
pool. Lucky us? There isn't any
time to wait for the gondala to
come back and take us to solid
land again however. Our solution
is quick, easy, and seemingly
suicidal. Long Jump off of the
island towards land where Mother
Penguin is. You won't make it.
However, wind will gust out from
under you, and you still have
complete control of yourself in
the air, so float on over to
solid land again. Hurry up and
run to Mother Penguin's little
pond and stand on it. Make a
Ground Pound and the ice will
shatter (Was it thin ice or has
Wario gained weight?) and you
will drop down to the Glass
Dome, should break it open, and
claim the Star.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Yoshi
===========================
Ah yes, the dreaded Collect 100
Coins challenge that perils
everyone in every course.
Fortunately, Cool, Cool Mountain
has plenty of Coins, and then
some. In fact there are around
150 Coins or so, that is if you
do everything perfectly and
don't miss anything. There isn't
anything Yoshi can't do on this
level, so he's your man. (You
need his fire breath to destroy
some blocks!!!) Best of all,
there's a glitch that can allow
you to get infinite coins, so
you should have no reason not to
get over 100 within several
attempts.

First off, anyone who has played
this level before should know
that there are tons, and I mean
many Coins on the Frosty Slide
itself alone. Yep, you should
remember that there are a ton of
coins indeed if you have ever
been down there. Start off as
usual, jump onto the chimney and
grab all five Yellow Coins that
lead inside it. Ninety five more
to go. Are you ready to round up
a ton of Coins? Good. Head down
the slide. A Blue Coin is
quickly running down the slide
too, so as you are quickly
making it down, you should grab
it. A few Yellow Coins come
before that Blue Coin too. By
now you should have at least ten
Coins. Head around the next turn
and there are five more Coins
before that little "Jump" you
always make. There are five more
Coins above the jump, so jump
before the jump itself to
collect those too. Now as you
enter the winding right turn
follwed by the sharper left turn
there are a few more coins
placed on the slide. Get them.

Now, there are five Coins
leading into the wall
"Shortcut". Try to get them, but
avoid the shortcut. Keep going
as the slide goes striaght into
those big bad turns. The giant
hairpin turn has a few Coins on
it, risk it if you want too, but
a few Coins won't make much of a
difference. Keep going along the
track, but stay in the middle.
You will go down the gap, with a
huge string of about 20-30 Coins
in it. Easy cash. As you head
through the final tunnel stay in
the middle again as you go along
the thin ice bridge. Another
20-30 or so Coins lie on this
bridge as well! Now you have
crossed the finish line, but who
cares? Exit the cabin, but don't
get the Blue Star that appears
from the door opening.

By now you should have at least
50 to 70 Coins. If you don't
have that much I suggest you
head to the top and do the slide
over again. Head to the right of
where you exited and where you
will find two Goombas. Kill them
both for the Coins they give
out. Head along and over the
nearby bridge and collect the
coin on the island. Head back,
and farther to the right and
collect the other Red Coin there
at the very corner of the
mountain. Head all the way back,
past Mother Penguin and to the
tree that is right next to the
cannon. Do a Handstand at the
top of the tree to collect
another Red Coin, further
boosting your coin total. After
this head all the way back again
to those two bridges that are
connected to the small island.
Stay at the end of the second
bridge to get warped all the way
back to the beginning of the
course.

Now, instead of going into the
chimmney, head down the path
until you start sliding down the
mountain. There are a string of
five Coins coming up. Around the
next corner of this mountain is
another five coins. Soon enough
you will see the path your
sliding on take a 180-Degree
turn. To the right of this turn
is a ledge, so while sliding
Jump up to this ledge, where a
Blue Coin Switch awaits its
duties. Pound it for a measly
two Blue Coins that appear
nearby. If you don't have 100
Coins by now, then head down the
next ledge and long jump across
the broken bridge, and kill the
enemies nearby, as well as the
coins just lying on the ground.
If not STILL by now, head back
for the Frosty Slide. You are
obviously missing a lot of coins
on that, because I've covered
the whole mountain. However,
there is still the matter of a
few Red Coins remaining, so get
those too.

If you're curious about the
glitch that allows you to get
infinite coins, remember the
Goombas near the exit of the
cabin? Every time you go down
and complete the frosty slide,
the Goombas there will reappear,
and you can kill them again for
their coins. If you want to,
it's as simple as going down the
slide over and over again for
three coins. If you use the
shortcut, this isn't too hard at
all.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Well, that is it for the first
four worlds, and currently the
only ones you can access. Well,
since you have nothing else
possible to do right now, I do
believe it is high time that you
saved Mario right about now. Of
course, there are a few Secret
Stars I'm gonna tell you how to
get on the way their of course,
so that's pretty useful for the
future. Mario is close, so don't
lose focus!

--------------------------------
    ~V E.Goomboss's Chamber~
--------------------------------
Like I just stated above, you
have done almost everything you
can in the Castle so far. The
exception is a few Castle Secret
Stars that you can obtain, and a
look at the future. Buckle up,
because it is finally time that
we rescued glorious Mario.

=========================
~Princess's Secret Slide~
=========================
This Star is pretty easy to
obtain. Go forward in the lobby
to the second floor of the
lobby, and head to the right and
enter the 1 Star Door. Upon
entering this door, head to the
right and you will see a picture
of Princess Peach looking
sideways holding flowers. Jump
into that stained glass painting
for a secret level. In this
secret level, you will find
yourself sitting at the top of a
rather large slide. Damn that
sounds cool doesn't it? Remind
you of something? It's similar
to the Cool, Cool Mountain
slide, but far easier, so I
think you have had enough
practice on these stunts. Head
down the first ramp, and you
should notice the timer in the
top right corner of the screen.
Don't worry about that until
later. Go around the first left
sharp turn, about 270-Degrees or
so until the wall dissappears
and there aren't any walls. You
will slide down a rather large
hill, followed by a 180-Degree
right turn, where you will pass
through a lot of coin strings
and a series of mini-hills.
Then, you will pass through a
quick left turn, then a right
turn, then another left turn,
and then it is a quick straight
slide to the finish line. After
crossing the finish line, jump
up onto the platform and break
the ! Box to open the Star,
claim it.

================================
~Looking at the Character Doors~
================================
After clearing the Secret Slide
you will appear back in the
Castle Lobby again, so make it
back to the second floor and
enter the 1 Star door again.
This time, we are going to look
at those Character Doors. There
are four doors. One of them has
a red M over it, one has a green
L over it, another has a yellow
W over it, and the fourth door
has nothing over it. Walk over
to the three doors with letters
on them. You will get the
message that someone is calling
for help on the other side of
the door. The fourth door you
will find out has only silence
on the other side. Did someone
die? Heh, that would be funny,
but alas, no. Obviously, Mario,
Luigi, and Wario are stuck
trapped behind those doors with
their corrosponding letters. We
need to find their keys keys so
that we can unlock them to play
as them! Head into the middle
door now.

================
~Sunshine Isles~
================
You should be inside the middle
door now. You will see that your
in some sort of playroom. Talk
to the Toad inside and he will
explain his situation. This room
is actually the Princess'
Playroom. She has had these
games ever since she was a
little kid (....my the years
pass...) and that he has lost
all of the keys that open the
drawers to access those games.
He will ask you to find them,
but you should worry about
finding those keys later. They
are a bit annoying to find as
well.

Anyways, it is time to actually
go to Sunshine Isles. Isle
Delfino, anyone? Inside of the
Princess's Game Room, to the
left of the Toad is a painting
of what seems like a resort
island, so jump into it for a
Mini-World.

There is only one Power Star to
be found in this region though,
but no matter. You will start
off on a small island, with the
Star Sphere right near you.
Let's get those Silver Stars!
Start off by heading to the left
onto the nearby small island.
Then, head straight until you
are upon a tiny sand bar. It is
upon this sand bar you will find
your first Silver Star. Now,
from your location on the sand
bar another island, that is
short though, should be pretty
close to you. It also has a palm
tree on it. Walk in the water
over to that palm tree island.
Once you are on that island,
climb up the palm tree until you
are at the very top. It is here,
you shall find your second
Silver Star. The next Silver
Star from your location is
currently never in an exact
location.

Klepto the Vulture is flying
around with the Silver Star
clawed firmly. It is best
advisible to just stay in one
place and wait for him to fly
over to where you are. When he
comes near jump up and him.
Klepto will get all freaked out
and drop the Silver Star, which
will start to bounce around
Sunshine Isles. Grab it before
it gets annoying to catch, and
that will be Silver Star number
three. Now, the last two Silver
Stars are pretty close nearby,
fortunately. Head to the center
and tall island, and jump up the
the very top of it. It is here,
bouncing happily up and down,
where your fourth Silver Star
lies. Now, jump off of the
island into the water, and start
circling around the center
islands base until you find a
tiny alcove in the bottom of it.
This is where your fifth and
final Star lies. Now, the Power
Star appears in the Star Sphere
near where you began. From this
point, head just back a few feet
and you should be there. Claim
the Star.

==============================
~Red Coins in Goomboss's Area~
==============================
This secret Star lies only in
Goomboss's Area. Wow, what a
surprise that was to find out.
Start off in the lobby, and head
to the second floor of it and
enter the One Star Door on the
far right side. Once inside,
head straight through the middle
door into the Princess's Play
room. Head to the right of the
bouncing Toad, and through the 8
Star Door. In this next tiny
room you are going to see some
tables and chairs, not to
mention a nearby Mario painting.
Wait, what? I think you know the
drill with paintings. Jump
inside it, as this must be where
Mario is getting held.

Awesome. You now, once again,
have the glorious and yet
daunting task of searching
frantically for another set of
eight Red Coins. Many of them
are hidden well, and you are
going to need to use every
character for the job. Wario to
break some bricks, Mario to
float up high, Luigi to mad dash
while invisible, and Yoshi for
some jumps that are slightly
easier if you use him. Start off
as usual by sliding down to log
and moving around to the left.
Kill that Goomba if he is in
your way.

After you pass the above part,
keep heading straight until you
find the giant log stump
platforms moving up and down.
They subside into the water,
then come back up onto dry land.
Jump onto the first moving
platform as it is going up.
Then, jump onto the second
platform as it is receding down,
now quickly jump onto the third
platform. If you can't, keep
yourself in the air to avoid
falling onto the stump which is
in the poisonous water. After
getting past the third log, jump
onto solid land for your next
task, and Red Coin!

All right. You are away from the
daunting water of doom. What
now? Look to your left and you
should see a small platform
going back and forth to where
near you are standing now, and
into the empty abiss. When that
small platform comes back to
you, jump onto it and wait until
it takes you over the abyss.
Now, another platform is coming
your way too. When it is right
next to your platform jump onto
it carefully, and ride it over
to a small tree stump with a
lone Goomba and a black brick.
The Goomba standing around there
will be wearing a Wario Cap, if
you aren't Wario right now. Grab
the Cap and destroy the black
brick for our first Red Coin.
Seeming daunty task now right?

Carefully head back over the
platforms, making sure not to
fall off into the empty abyss.
When you get back to solid land,
head straight until you see a
sleeping Pirhana Plant to your
right, and a wire mesh net right
behind it. Grab onto the wire
net and hand over hand, move all
the way over to the other side,
however, along the way in the
middle of the net you will find
your second Red Coin. Collect
it, and go back to where you
came (The spot before you jumped
for the wire net.)

That's two Red Coins already!
Now, head straight along the
path, killing the Pirhana Plant
along the way if you feel like
it if you need health. Climb up
the very tall pole. There will
be a Lakitu circling around you
now, but you can simply ignore
him because he can't do anything
while you are climbing the tall
pole. Climb quickly (By holding
Y and climbing the pole) until
you reach the very top. Pretty
damn great view isn't it? On
this circular log is a small
branch extending out (Not the
wooden bridge you may see!). At
the tip of this branch lies your
third Red Coin. After you
retrieve this Red Coin, go back
to the pole and slide all the
way back down the pole back to
the log where the Pirhana Plant
used to be. More Red Coins
coming up!

Now that we are on this log,
jump back to the checkered-
colored pathways and head
towards the left, and the
pathway will quickly become
narrow. Destroy any annoying
boxes that may get in your way,
and keep following the path
until there are two directions
to go-Left or Right. Choose to
go left and continue following
the path, still getting rid of
useless boxes that may block
your path. Follow the path some
more and it will appear as to
come to a dead end. However, the
seemingly "wall" that signifies
the dead end is actually a big
tree stump moving up and down.
When it stops at the bottom for
a second or two, jump onto it
and ride it to the top. At the
apex of the stump's travels, you
will find the fourth Red Coin in
mid air. You can jump to get it,
but a Backflip is the best way
to ensure you grab it. That's
four down!

After retrieving your fourth Red
Coin, head back onto the tree
stump and wait for it to reach
ground level again, then hop off
of it. Now, it is a bit of a
long path to the fifth Red Coin.
Follow the pathway, to the right
instead of left when you get to
the fork again. Keep following
the winding pathway, with moving
platforms to add to the
annoyence until you come across
a wide section of platform. Head
to the left, where you will see
a sleeping Pirhana Plant. Kill
it if you feel like it, then
head behind it and you will see
the Blue Star Marker, and that's
where the Star will appear after
the eight Red Coins are found.
Head behind it to find five logs
that are moving up and down, and
go way out over the pit of
emptiness. Carefully navigate
over all five logs and you will
be on the last platform, with
another sleeping Pirhana Plant
(Is this their home or
something?). Kill it to easily
clear the path for the prize
that is behind it-your fifth Red
Coin. Be careful!

That's another Red Coin down!
The remaining three are all in
the same area, but require Mario
and Luigi to get. Anyways, after
collecting your fifth Red Coin,
head across the logs again (You
should notice they are actually
in-sinc with eachother to create
the path back easier). Once you
are on the other side, take a
left until you reach a pretty
big gap over the poisonous
water. Long Jump over it, until
you are on a realitvely large
platform, with a small, tilting
diamond shaped platform in the
middle of it. Jump onto the
small diamond-shaped and tilting
platform. You can see the sixth
Red Coin lying just within a
Jump's reach hovering above the
diamond platform.

Nearby is a Goomba wearing a
Mario Cap if you aren't already
him yet. You need Mario for the
following Red Coin. The Goomba
should be within a few feet or
so of your current location on
the platform. If there is no
Mario Cap lying nearby, either
you are already Mario, or you
need to look at the Touch Screen
Map. Easily locate the Mario
Cap, and rush over to it and
grab it. If you are sure there
is no Mario Cap within the
level, go ahead and beat
Goomboss (path is a few sections
below), that way you can be sure
a Mario Cap will appear
somewhere within Goomboss's
Area.

Anyways, from where you should
be, near the diamond shaped
platform, look around and nearby
you should see some more
diamond-shaped tilting platforms
all lined up, and they connect
to a log far away in the
distance. Hmmm, so hop aboard
the tilting platform (Heh, the
tilt is pointless if you are
worried about falling off into
the abiss, you can't fall off
these platforms unless you walk
off intentionally). Then jump to
the next platform, and then to
the final one, and then hop to
the small log. All there is here
is a lonely signpost and a ? Red
Block. Hit the block and recive
the Power Flower that pops out
of it. Now, quickly push B to
keep floating upwards. Aim for
the very top of the gigantic
tree stump that isn't moving.
Once you reach the very tip top
of the tree stump, you can't
posssibly miss the Red Coin
lying in the middle.

Now we are only one Red Coin
away from another Star! Jump off
of the giant tree towards land,
and make sure to Ground Pound
before slamming onto the ground
to not lose four Bars of Health
(It is a huge fall). Anyways,
turn right near that lonely
diamond shaped platform and kill
the nearby Goomba for a Luigi
Cap, which we need to earn the
last Red Coin. If that Goomba
isn't there, look at the Touch
Screen Map until you find the
Luigi Hat. It's always there
even if you haven't unlocked
him. Head back across those
three diamond shaped tilting
platforms. Well what do you
know? You happen to be right
back on the small log containing
the Red ? Block we hit eariler.
Get ready for a quick race!

Hit the ? Red Block and get the
Power Flower that falls from it
to recieve the power of being
invisible. You don't have very
much time, only 15 or so
seconds. You need to hurry! Head
quickly across those three
tilting diamond shaped platforms
again. After you do that, head
to the left and keep going until
you are at the base of the giant
tree stump. Stand in the middle
of it, then do a high Backflip.
You will see a wire gate on this
small ledge you are currently
standing on. Because of the fact
you are invisible, you can, with
ease, go right through the gate
and collect the last and final
and eigth Red Coin that simply
lies there. If you are trapped
inside the gate right now, then
grab the Power Flower in the red
? block to get out.

Now, it is a matter of actually
getting the Power Star that
appeared. It is actually close
by. You even saw that Blue Star
Marker before right? After
jumping off of the not high up
ledge, make your way to the left
and cross the gap with a Long
Jumpo when it appears. Cross
along the narrow and winding
platforms until you reach those
moving up and down tree stumps
again. Your Power Star is
waiting there!

================================
~Wall Kick Switch Star in
Goomboss's Area~
================================
This secret Star lies only in
Goomboss's Area, as if the title
didn't already make you think
that. In order to obtain this
Star you need to be Mario, so
either beat Goomboss first to
play as him or obtain his cap in
the area (I think you must
unlock Mario first to have the
cap appear).

You have to use Mario for this
Star, obviously as the title
states, only he can do the
stupendous Wall Kick. So it is
best that you enter Goomboss's
Area as Mario to make this Star
short and easy to get. Anyways,
start out as usual at the top of
the log, so slide down it to the
first platform. Instead of
taking the path to the left as
usual, go straight across the
short gap and follow the mild
path to the right. Keep going
and going. By the time you meet
back up with the main path you
should see a very narrow path
that is a hill going upwards.
That hill leads to our
destination, so, wonder what
happens now?

Walk up the path. By the time
you reach the top, the platform
will flatten and get a little
wider. There will be a Pirhana
Plant sleeping soundly up here.
Kill it. No risk of falling off
this high platform thanks to no
more Pirhana Plants. Cross the
diamond shaped platforms very
carefully to reach another
platform, quite high up above
land...actually, technically it
is floating because of the pit
right past the edge of the
platform. Anyways, head to the
right when you are on this
platform making sure to not fall
off (It is wide so that isn't a
problem, but it never hurts to
be extra cautious) until you
reach a little bit of pathway
sticking out. It is here, where
the Star Switch of Goomboss's
Area is located. Ready for a
little fun?

As Mario (you have to be Mario
at this point), activate the
switch. You will see the Star
appear in what seems to be a
cage, but that isn't a difficult
problem. After hitting the
switch, run all the way to the
end of the platform, making sure
you don't bump into those
Goombas to stall up time, or
worse, knock off the cap you are
currently wearing. Next, the
bottom of the "cage" should be
infront of you. Jump onto the
wall infront of you, and do a
wall kick to the other side of
the cage. Keep doing this
quickly, pressing in the
direction you wanna go after
each Wall Kick until you finally
reach the very top of the cage.
Quickly now, jump into the Star
Sphere to break it, and claim
yet another Power Star.

=================
~Goomboss Battle~
=================
Alright! I think it is about
high time to find the Key for
Mario's Room and unlock him.
Head back to the Princess's Play
Room and enter the 8 Star Door,
then jump into the Mario
painting afterwards.

Now you are inside Goomboss's
Area. Your objective is to
navigate this large complexion
of platforms to find the secret
hole, which warps us to where
Goomboss is waiting. Let's roll!
Begin the area by sliding down
the log that rests infront of
you at start. Kill the Goomba
(or swallow him) if he gets in
your way, and then continue onto
the left to the next area, where
another Goomba might get in your
way. If he, and his constant
running around in annoys you,
then just make an egg out of
him. Can't hurt.

Now, infront of you are three
giant logs that are moving up
and down. Jump onto the first
one as it is moving up, then
jump onto the second log as it
is moving up from the poisionous
water. Just a good mention to
let you know, the water is
poison. Every few seconds that
you are in it you will lose one
Bar of Health. Anyways, continue
onto the third platform as it
rises from the poisonous water
(or jump quickly to the other
side, it itsn't far away) onto
solid land.

Now, follow the platform forward
then jump up to another platform
where a Pirhana Plant is
sleeping. You should have made
an egg earlier, and if you did,
chuck it at the Pirhana Plant to
kill him if its sleeping. If you
don't have an egg, jump over him
as he wakes up and onto the next
platform. On this platform, you
will find a rather tall pole,
and an annoying Lakitu flying
around and around. Climb the
pole quickly to save time, then
once you reach the top I must
inform you that you are pretty
damn close to Goomboss. Head
across the very large bridge
that lies infront of you, with
three Goombas wondering on it. A
thin bridge. Swallow the
Goombas, and be sure to make one
of them an egg. After passing
this bridge you will see three
platforms. The first one has a
Pirhana Plant on it, so kill him
with your egg. The second has a
spinning heart on it, so use
that to recover any damage you
have recieved on your way up
here. The last has a hole in it.
Jump into it to be warped to
Goomboss.

Goomboss is a bit wacked out.
His eyes just explain it. You
see, Goomboss is quite pissed at
the fact Mario continues to just
stomp all over Goombas, and his
interference has annoyed him to
no end. So, he decided to lock
up Mario in a room and take the
key. Well that wasn't very nice
was it? And so, you begin the
battle! Goomboss will throw out
three Goombas behind him, and
will start slowly marching his
way around the giant tree stump
you're on. The middle is all
poisonous water, so be careful.
Dash around the inside of the
tree stump to catch up to
Goomboss quickly. Be prepared to
stop, because as you approach
behind Goomboss, he, and his
small army of Goombas, will
stop. His Goombas will now
attack you. Swallow one and
transform it into an egg. Throw
the egg. It will kill the other
two Goombas, and hit the back of
Goomboss. Goomboss will turn
around and look at you angrily,
and then grow larger in rage.
Now you've pissed off Goomboss
once. He will throw out six
Goombas behind him now, two rows
of three. They will march FASTER
around the tree stump.

You better get yourself moving,
or Goomboss will plow right into
you. When you finally get to the
back of Goomboss again, he will
stop as usual and his army of
six Goombas will attack you.
Like before, swallow one and
make it into an egg, then throw
it. It will kill the other five
Goombas, and hit Goomboss right
in the rear again. Now, Goomboss
will turn around to look at you
again, and now, he will grow
even bigger, and redder in
terrific rage. He will spit out
nine Goombas, three rows of
three. He is now literally
stomping his way around the tree
stump. Dashing isn't nearly
enough. You will barely be
faster than Goomboss when
running, so that may take a
while. Instead, get near to
front of him, then jump into the
poisonous pool, then jump out
when he and his Goombas have
passed you. Sure, you take some
damage, but it speeds up the
battle. Catch up to his army of
Goombas and simply repeat the
process. Swallow a Goomba and
make it into an egg, then throw
it to kill the other eight
Goombas and hit Goomboss the
final time.


Goomboss will admit defeat in
other ways a Goomba can be
destroyed, and then he will grow
bigger until he explodes into
hundreds of Goombas that fall
off the field. Then, the Mario
Key is left behind. Grab it to
clear the level. Now, go to the
Mario door and open it to greet
our old superhero!

However, you can also clear the
Goomboss battle as Wario, Luigi,
and even Mario. If you enter the
battle as the famous Mario,
Goomboss will be upset and
surprised. He'll say "I thought
I had you locked up in a room! I
will now stomp all over YOU!"
The way to beat him with the
'Stached Three is to go around
the stump as usual, and when
caught up to Goomboss, punch a
Goomba into the back of him. Do
that three times to win. Also,
you get a different ending for
winning as Mario.

--------------------------------
 ~V F.Bowser in the Dark World~
--------------------------------
After collecting Twelve Stars,
and thusly freeing Mario from
Goomboss, you will have access
to the large Star Door at the
top, left hand corner inside the
Lobby of Peach's Castle. With
Mario, head over to the door to
unlock the seal Bowser put on
it. Now, any character can
access that door now. Enter as
anybody (Even as Yoshi, however
he will be grabbing a Cap later
if you enter as him) and
continue down the long hallway.
You will see a picture of Peach
in the distance. So close! As
you get closer the painting
turns from a picture of Peach,
to a picture of Bowser. When you
are a few feet away from the
painting, a trapdoor will open
underneath you (What a cliche
surprise) and you will fall into
Bowser in the Dark World (Its
not really dark) for the first
time.

Now you are inside the Dark
World. You'll be greeted by a
message from Bowser saying
"Bwahhhahahahaha! You fell right
into my trap! I warn you my
friend!" or something to that
extent. Obviously, as anyone can
plainly see, the object of the
Dark World is to make it all the
way to Bowser and fight him.
Start off by running across the
wide platform you start off on.
You will go a few platforms
down, then go across a very thin
wooden bridge. After that, and
up the next hill you will come
to a Fire Breathing Statue. Wait
until after it shoots its
flames, then run past it.

After the fire shooter, you will
see two large diamond shaped
floating platforms moving in a
counterclockwise direction. Jump
on one of them, and ride it over
to the other side of the
platform then jump off. On solid
ground again, start running up
the hill. You will come to a
sudden U-Turn though. In that
U-Turn happens to be another
Fire Breathing Statue. How fun.
Wait for it to stop shooting,
then make the U-Turn. Then,
after the U-Turn, run up the
following hill. It will come to
an end, and a few feet infront
of you is a bunch of platforms
moving in a circular motion.
Jump on one of them and ride it
higher to the top. When you
reach a large, circular
platform, jump off the ride.

Now that you are on the circular
platform, kill the Goombas if
you feel like it (or are running
out of health). Anyways, you
will see a wooden bridge to the
north. Head on it, and then the
platform will quickly take a
sudden left turn (a guardrail
here protects the possibility of
still running forward). Now, on
this thin green pathway, there
are no guardrails. There is no
need to run like its the
Olympics. Take your time. Pass
the crystals in the ground as
they do nothing. You will see a
few Amps circling some crystals.
Avoid getting shocked by them.
Continue along the pathway until
you reach the end of it. Then,
you will see a platform floating
in midair, with an orange
platform going out and receding
into it over and over again.
While the platform is out, jump
onto it and quickly jump onto
the middle platform. Now, on the
other side of it is the same
orange platform moving in and
out. Jump onto it then quickly
get off when the next platform
is visible.

Now, infront of you is another
set of two moving platforms
moving in a counterclockwise
direction. Jump on one when it
passes you, then face to the
right. You will see another pair
of moving platforms, perfectly
insync with the platform you are
on. When one of them passes you,
that is your time to jump onto
it. Now, just sit tight until it
passes the solid platform. When
the moving platform passes it,
jump onto it. Now you are back
on solid land. This next part of
the Dark World is a bit tricky,
so kill the nearby Goomba that
may hinder you.

Turn to your left to view the
large tilting platforms.
Remember that tilting bridge in
Bob-omb Battlefield? This one
(and the following one) is just
like that, except much bigger
and more tiltier. Jump onto the
first tilting platform and keep
running. Your weight will shift
the platform up, so you will
start running slow for a second
as it begins evening out again.
As the next platform is in view,
get near it and jump. It is
quite an easy jump if the first
tilting platform is tilted up
while you jump. At the end of
this platform is the final
platform. Jump onto it, then
fall down a short way to another
platform with some Goombas on
it. Kill them so they won't
bother you. Climb up the few
platforms to the right and you
will find a ! Red Switch.
Activate it to make the large
ramp infront of you form into
stairs. Climb up the stairs
before time runs out. Then, a
pipe will be infront of you.
Jump in to fight Bowser.

You'll fall onto a large, blue,
octagonal platform, then the
camera will shift towards
Bowser. He'll say he trapped
your friends behind the castle
walls, took the Power Stars, all
that lovely stuff. I think it is
time we kicked his freakin ass.
Bowser will slowly stomp towards
you during the whole match. He
will stop around every 10 or so
seconds to breath fire at a low
range. Most of the flames leave
Coins behind, pick them up for
health. Now, to the real
fighting. You see the 8 Big
Black Bombs lined up around the
corners of the stage? Your
object is to throw Bowser into
one of them to win. To do so,
you need to run around Bowser,
and grab his tail.

If you are Yoshi, wait until
Bowser breathes fire breath, and
a random Cap will be left behind
so you can kill Bowser. Anyways,
once you have grabbed onto his
tail, you need to twirl him
around. Rotate the D-Pad in
which ever direction you want.
Or, you can use the Touch Screen
to swing him around too. The
faster you spin the faster you
spin in-game. Press A again to
throw Bowser when you have lined
up his flight with a Bomb. If
you miss, he will be thrown over
the edge into the bottomless
pit, in which Bowser just flies
up from somehow. Keep battling
until you have thrown Bowser
into a Bomb once. He will
concede defeat, but you will get
no Stars from him (that jerk!).
He will evaporate into the sky,
and leave a Key behind. Grab the
Key to clear the level, and head
back to the Castle.

--------------------------------
 ~V G.Course 5:Big Boo's Haunt~
--------------------------------
Ah yes, Big Boo's Haunt. What a
creepy course with scary
memories many years ago. I
always had a personal grudge
against this course, but now
I've changed my views. I just
wish it could be much scarier
than it is now. It seems so
plain, as you will see when you
first enter. However, this is a
pretty neat course, so hopefully
you aren't too spooked by what
the house is going to throw at
you. The music is cool as well.
There is a very intresting way
of entering this course, and it
isn't to difficult of figuring
out either.

In the Lobby, head through the
wooden doors on both sides of
the first floor. Instead of
going down the staris past the
door, head down the long hallway
where a Boo will be waiting,
then run off in fear of seeing
you. It is a tiny Boo you should
see, the normal sized ones.
After getting 15 or so Stars,
(and hitting the ? Switch I
think), a Big Boo will be there,
and then run off in fear. At the
end of the long hallway is a
door entering to the Courtyard.
In here, many, many Boos float
along the ground. Big Boo is
waiting in right corner of the
courtyard. Kill him with a
Ground Pound to kill him. He
will leave a birdcage type
thing, with a small house
inside. Get near the cage to be
transported inside, where Big
Boo's Haunt lies. However,
Yoshi, sadly, cannot enter this
level. I dunno why the game
desginers didn't allow him.
Ground Pounds from him only
phase the Boo's. And everybody
knows you can't eat ghosts.

============================
~Red Coins in the Courtyard~
============================
Before you begin your official
business entering Big Boo's
Haunt, there is an easy Castle
Secret Star you can get before
entering. All around the
Courtyard is a TON of Boo's. I
mean a lot (And the Big Boo in
the corner of course). Most of
the Boo's have Yellow Coins
inside them, which can only be
gotten after Punching/Ground
Pounding them to death, which
they will then drop. However,
eight Boo's contain Red Coins
instead of Yellow Coins inside
them. This, fortunately, is such
an easy Red Coin mission I don't
think I need to explain to you
how to do it. Boo's will float
towards you while your back is
turned away from them, however,
you still may run into a bit of
trouble with finding all of
them.

If you face a Boo, it will
become transparent in fright. Oh
boy. If you get hurt by a Boo in
its normal state, that's 2
Health Bars ticked off. However,
there's infinite life here.
Simply, jump into the water
around the Eternal Star statue,
float at the surface, and wait
for your health to be
replenished back to full. Pretty
darned simple isn't it? Anyways,
right past the door when you
enter the Courtyard a Boo will
begin coming towards you right
then. He contains Red Coin #1.
There are a few Boo's in the
water, none have Red Coins
however. To the right end of the
Courtyard are around 5-7 Boo's
just wondering around with no
intention. Three of them have
Red Coins inside of them, so I
think you know the drill. A hop,
spin, Pound. Then, head behind
the Star Statue for another Boo
with another Red Coin.

Now you have three left to find.
Head to the left side of the
Courtyard for where the Big Boo
is located, and there are
another bunch of Boo's. The
final three Red Coins are inside
some of them. After collecting
all 8 Red Coins, head over and
grab the Power Star that appears
behind the Star Statue (Would
made sense above the statue, but
that's just the opinion of
others).

Just as a note, many people
complain that this star is
impossible to obtain after a
certain time. It has been proven
this rumor is total bullcrap.
Please, if you don't see the red
coins, then you HAVE gotten this
Star. There is no way of making
the coins disappear without
getting the Star. If you are
missing a Castle Secret Star,
and the coins aren't here, you
aren't missing this Star. Stop
complaining about how this is a
glitch.

================================
Star 1-Go on a Ghost Hunt
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
All right! You have finally
entered Big Boo's Haunt for the
first time. Are you ready? Good.
Just don't ask how we got
transported into the birdcage on
the ground, or why the time of
day is nighttime all of a sudden
(Creepiness). Anyhow, as the
title of this Star suggests, you
are going to go on a hunt for
ghosts and kill them like you
have never killed a ghost before
(Even though in the Red Coins
Star you should have done you
have already killed a bunch of
ghosts).

Aside from that silliness, you
will start off infront of Big
Boo's Mansion, at nighttime like
I said. The object is to kill
the five Boo's that are roaming
around somewhere inside that
Mansion. Instead of going into
the main doors right now, we are
going to save some time. Head
around the Mansion to the very
back of it. There will be a door
in the back. Head inside it.
There will be two Boo's floating
around (At least they were. Now
they will start floating towards
you!), and if you have unlocked
Luigi already, one of them will
be wearing a Luigi Cap (And that
makes sense, how?). Kill the
nearest Boo to you. You will get
the message
"Ghosts....don't...DIE! Can you
make it out of here alive?".
Creepy right? Kill the next Boo
in this room to get that same
message again. You have to
ignore the messages, these Boo's
have to die. Head back outside
of the Mansion. Anyhow, you have
already killed 2 of the 5 Boo's
inside Big Boo's Haunt.

Now you need to find the other
three. Head around the Mansion
like you did before, heading for
the front. Head inside the front
doors and you will be inside Big
Boo's Mansion. You will see
there are many doors on the
first floor and the second
floor. The second floor is in-
accessable right now because the
stairs are retracted into the
ground now. We don't need the
stairs though, not yet. Head
into the door at the top left
corner of the first floor (On
the northern wall, not the
leftern wall). Inside of this
room you will find a Mr. I
staring at you, and another Boo.
Kill the Boo there and recieve
that familar message again.

Now, head of the room you are in
now, and move over one door to
the right. In here you will be
in a pretty large room. There is
a seemingly bottomless pit in
this, and the following room.
However, falling down takes you
to the basement of Big Boo's
Mansion. Just follow the path
around, through a few doors, and
then take the elevator back up
and get back here if neccassary.
Anyways, you just entered the
door to this room. Stay along
the path railing until you come
to a collapsing bridge yet
again. Quickly run across this
bridge before falling. On the
other side is your 4th Boo. Kill
him, and let's find the last
one.

After killing that Boo, another
door should be right in front of
you. Head into it, and you will
be in a smaller room with no
railings at all and narrow
pathways. Head along the
pathway, hugging the wall until
you get to a little piece of
walkway that is jutted out with
a Red Coin on it. A Boo will
come towards you when your back
is turned from him, so do that.
Then do a Double Jump to get
height, then Ground Pound to
kill the 5th and final Boo. He
can be a bit stubborn and likes
to stay suspended above the
empty pit sometimes. If the Boo
does this, exit and re-enter the
room to reset his position so he
hopefully comes toward you. A
message will come up saying the
Master of Terror and Mischief
has arrived. The Big Boo!
Heehee, so, I think it'd be rude
to keep Big Boo waiting for us.
Leave the room and back into the
main lobby of the mansion.

Head into the door right past
the final Boo that leads right
back to the Lobby of the
Mansion. You may not see him at
first, but Big Boo is in the
room with you. Run around him
and Punch him (or Ground Pound,
either one works fine) to make
him get pushed around, and get a
little smaller. After three hits
Big Boo will dissappear. If you
leave the fight at any time and
leave the Mansion, Big Boo will
be back at full health again.
Anyways, he will put the Star on
the Second Floor (figures) after
his defeat. However, the stairs
will come out of the ground too
so you can easily reach the Star
at the top of the stairs.

================================
Star 2-Ride Big Boo's Merry-Go-
Round Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario,
Luigi, Wario
================================
What you need to do to complete
this Star is a lot like Big
Boo's Merry Go Round, kill the
five Boo's on it, then kill Big
Boo himself once again. Not a
very hard mission, but you'll
see! Getting to the merry-go-
round is harder than the actual
fight itself. As you start off,
don't head inside the Mansion as
it is just a waste of time. Head
to the left from where you start
and you should see the Mansion
Shed next to the edge of the
world. Enter that shed by its
only door. You will find a Mr. I
in there, ignore him, and hop on
the red-grated elevator and ride
it to the basement of the
mansion. Head along the narrow
path, knee deep in water. You
will eventually come to a door.
Can you hear it now? Head
through the door to find another
long hallway infront of you. At
the end of this hallway you
should start to here creepy and
odd Merry-Go-Round music that
they play at carnivals. Erm.
Head through the door and in
this room, head to the left, and
get back on solid ground on your
near right. There is a door
leading inside the large
building thing right next to
you, where the source of the
music is. Head inside the door
to be in the next area for the
Star.

Now, you will be inside a small
room, with a Merry-Go-Round
circling around and around, with
many large pictures of Boo's on
the sides, some spitting out
flames. Watch out. Head to the
other side of the ride (No rhyme
intended) and turn your back
away from the painting. A Boo
will come out. Kill him as usual
with a Ground Pound. Now,
another two Boo's will appear.
Kill them both before you get
hurt by them. Then, another Boo,
shortly followed by another Boo.
Kill them both. Out of the
painting the Boo's have been
spawning out of comes Big Boo
once again to steal the show.
The constant rotation of the
Merry-Go-Round and the fire
spitting paintings makes this a
slightly cramped battle. The
Ground Pound method is best for
defeating Big Boo. Keep trying
to kill him and don't get hurt
at all because 3 hits from
either Big Boo or the fire is
death for you. If you need
health, head outside and jump
into the deep water. However,
you will start the battle with
Big Boo at full health again.
Keep cool, and Pound your way to
another Star.

================================
Star 3-Secret of the Haunted
Books Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Mario,
Luigi, Wario
================================
Ah yes, the long forgotted
haunted library in Big Boo's
Mansion. How fun it seems, the
librarian must have freaked out
in the mansion and then left.
Anyways, the haunted library in
the Mansion has a few
"dishelved" books, and being the
nice person that you are, you
need to put them back in their
proper order. Head into the
Mansion as usual. There isn't
anything of intrest on the first
floor, so head up the stairs to
the second floor. Go into the
door on the left wall, farthest
away from the window at the far
end of the hallway. That door
over there is useless.

Now, you are in the haunted
library. Two tall shelves of
books line up the long hallway,
but make a narrow path. No,
nothing important will happen
here. They won't be falling
ontop of you when you pass them,
or something silly like that.
However, when you get near some
parts of the bookcase, flying
books will fly out to the other
side. This makes this area
another Mad-Dash scene. Quickly
run through the hall of books
and even if a few hit you, its
just 1 Health Bar. Keep going
until you reach a dead end.

Here at this dead end wall,
three books are sticking out of
the wall. Oh great. First, hit
the highest book. Then, hit the
lowest book to punch it into the
wall. Then finally, hit the
final book in the middle into
the bookshelf. You hit the books
by jumping into them. Punching
works as well, but the higher
one is tricker if you decide to
punch it. You will hear the "You
solved the puzzle!" sound effect
and then the bookshelf infront
of you will slide out of the way
revealing another passageway.
Follow the short path to a door
infront of it. This door will
lead you to a tiny balcony above
the Music Room, with your Star
within easy reach.

===========================
Star 4-Seek the 8 Red Coins
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
Well, it was fairly obvious this
had to happen. Another set of 8
Red Coins are stuck in Big Boo's
Mansion and it is up to you to
retrieve them. It is always up
to us to save them. Anyways, no
Red Coins are in the Basement of
the Mansion (Big Boo's Merry Go
Round area is the basement area)
so if you fall down there, head
right back up to the top of the
Mansion. Anyways, when you
start, head into the Mansion.
Head inside the first door on
the far left right near where
you came in. You will see a nice
Piano sitting in the corner and
a chair. Behind the Piano is
your first Red Coin. Get close
to that Piano though, and he
will start to chomp really loud,
with the sound effects like
piano keys getting mashed
together. If he touches you
that's 2 Health Bars gone. You
need to quickly get in there,
distract the piano briefly by
luring it out into the open,
then run in and get the red coin
before the Mad Piano (The name
it has gotten for 8 years)
before anything else happens,
then quickly get the hell outta
the room. The Mad Piano will
start chomping the heck out a
few seconds after the chair
attacks you. That's enough time
to make off with the bounty.

After getting the red coin in
that creepy room, don't go back
the way you came. There should
be another door (Far from the
Piano) on the wall, so head into
it. There are a few bookshelves,
a few chairs, a large picture of
a Boo in fright, and some Red
Coins. Near another door on the
wall (That leads back to the
Main Lobby) is a bookshelf.
Double Jump up to the top and
claim your second Red Coin. Get
down, and near the door leading
to the Piano is another
bookshelf. Double Jump up there
to collect your third Red Coin.
Not too hard is this?

Now that we are in the main
Lobby, head straight across to
the other side of the wall, and
enter the door nearest to the
door leading back outside of the
Mansion. This room, again, his a
pit leading back to the Mansion
Basement so avoid that. There is
a Boo in this room. Don't take
chances wasting time by killing
him as Boo's aren't ever much of
a threat. Head along the narrow
pathway, hugging the wall until
you reach a small jutted out
platform, basking near a window
under the moonlight. Your fourth
Red Coin is here. Head back the
way you came now.

Now you have four Red Coins.
Halfway there, lucky you. There
aren't anymore Red Coins on the
1st Floor, so don't bother
looking. Head up to the second
floor instead now. There are two
doors infront of the stairs on
the Second Floor. Head inside
the door to the left. You will
be walking on wire mesh now. The
whole floor isn't covered,
however, only some parts of it.
Sad isn't it. Carefully make
your way around the mesh, and to
the other side where a Red Coin
can be found nearly camoflauged
into the grating. Collect it.
Carefully head back around the
wire mesh again and back out to
the exit of the room. If you
fall down at all, your in a room
on the first floor. No big deal
really. If that happens, just
climb back up to the second
floor.

Outside back on the second
floor, head into the other door
on the exact same wall as the
door you just exited. You will
find a Mr. I in this room. Kill
him if you wish, and head into
the open room near him. There
are 6 coffins on the floor
(Nothing comes out of them,
fortunately). Get near the one
at the bottom right corner of
the room. The coffin will lift
itself up. Get the Red Coin
before it slams down again. You
can see what lies under other
coffins too, but there isn't
much else to see. Anyways, leave
the room.

Head to the far right wall, and
enter either door there. If you
entered the farthest one, longer
path. Anyways, your seventh Red
Coin is in this bookshelf room,
near a piece of tilting floor.
The floor is under a Yellow !
Box. Stand on it too long,
you'll tilt down all the way
into the basement. The seventh
Red Coin is here, so grab it.
Exit to the farthest door away
from this Red Coin.

You need to be Mario for this
part. The final Red Coin is now
in the top-middle area of the
lobby. The only way to reach it
is using the Power Flower inside
the ? Red Box on the platform
you should be on right now. Grab
it and float up to reach the
eigth and final Red Coin. If you
aren't Mario, a Cap for him is
waiting underwater near the
Merry Go Round. You can also
Triple Jump into the Coin,
however, it is very difficult to
pull off. Do so if needed and
not wanting to waste time. After
uniting all 8 Red Coins, the
Power Star will appear on the
top floor, in the shine of the
moonlight. Run up the stairs to
the top floor, run to the left
until you reach another shining
prize.

===========================
Star 5-Big Boo's Balcony
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
Big Boo actually wants to fight
us again? After two straight
thrashings he simply wants
more!? Wow, what a trooper.
Fortunately, this is your last
encounter with Big Boo (Unless
you count unlocking Luigi's Big
Boo, but that is King Boo in my
opinion). Anyways, enter the
Mansion as usual and head up the
stairs to the second floor. Head
to the door on the far right
wall. Oh the joy.

Run straight past the bookcase
(Make sure not to get hurt by
giant books that may pop out)
and get onto a small platform
with a ? Red Block on it. Hit
the block and take the Power
Flower that lies inside. Float
up high until you can see a
ledge with a door on it. Get
onto the ledge, and inside the
door. If you are a character
other than Mario, jump onto the
Red ? Block and do a Backflip.
You will be able to go high
enough and far back enough to
land on the ledge there.

Go through the door. On the wall
you will see a painting of
Luigi. You should worry about
that picture in a later section.
For now, keep going forward
until you see double-doors on a
small platform in the attic area
of the Mansion. Go through the
doors. You will be, literally,
on Big Boo's Balcony. Great view
from up here if it weren't for
the fact Big Boo is trying to
ruin the fun. He is exactly the
same as all the other times you
have fought him. Simply Ground
Pound him or Punch him while he
is visible. Keep doing this,
smaller and smaller he gets
after each hit (3 times) until
he dies. (Note that Big Boo will
be at full health again if you
fall off the balcony and re-
enter the Mansion.) The Power
Star will appear at the very top
of the Mansion.

This is where being Mario comes
in handy. Its quite a long way
around, if it weren't for the
convienent Power Flower in a ?
Red Block on the balcony. Double
Jump to hit the block. Get the
Power Flower and float up to the
top of the Mansion and claim
your prize. If you aren't Mario,
then things are trickier. You
need to Long Jump to one side of
the Mansion (The left or right)
and land on the small flat
section near the roof. Now, run
or Jump up to the very top of
the roof. The very top is pretty
flat, and not tilted like one
would expect. Now, run over to
the middle of the roof until you
are pretty much even for the
area the Power Star is floating
on. Slide down the side of the
roof and get the Star.

================================
Star 6-Eye to Eye in the Secret
Room Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Luigi
needed
================================
Gotta love Luigi's Invisible
Power! In fact, it is neccessary
to complete this Star! If you
aren't Luigi, head to the back
of the Mansion, and through the
back door there. A Boo will be
wearing a Luigi Cap (It still
makes no sense) so kill the Boo
and put on the Cap if you need
to. Anyways, head into the
Mansion like you have for almost
every Star. Head up the stairs
to the second floor, and enter
the door on the right side, like
you did in our previous Star.

Run past the bookcase again,
avoid the giant chomping books
that may appear. When you are on
the small platform with the ?
Red Block, hit it and collect
the Power Flower to be invisble.
Turn and face the wall, now do a
backflip. Maunver Luigi's
"Copter" move so you land on the
small alcove above. Enter the
door there. You shall now be in
the attic of the Mansion, like
you were a short time ago.

Now that you are in the attic,
head straight away from the
Luigi painting, past the double
doors leading to the balcony,
and make a left turn. You will
see a Boo picture who is
cowering in fear from being
looked at I suppose. As Luigi,
and being invisible, you can
easily walk right through this
painting. On the other side is a
small room with a single Boo in
there. Also, there is a giant
Mr. I. Run around him in circles
until he spins and dies, where
he releases the Star.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star in the
Basement Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
needed
================================
I have recieved e-mail tips on
another, easier way of doing
this Star. I describe it in the
last paragraph.

Like mad-dashes? Damn good. You
shall be doing one in this
mission. It is quite a hectic
Switch Star. The timer for the
Star is plenty, it is just a
matter of doing so before you
run out of invisibility power.
Ahem. We will need to start out
as Wario. Head into the Mansion
and take the door on the right
closest to the entrance doors.
Remember this room? It leads
down to Big Boo's Merry Go Round
if you fell down. Heh. Fall
down. Now you are in the
basement of the Mansion
(Obviously from the Star title,
the Switch must be here). If you
aren't Wario, there will be a
Wario Cap somewhere underwater
near where you are now. Head
into the Big Boo's Merry Go
Round, but head to the other
side simply and out that other
door. As Wario, go to the left
and you should see a black brick
just sitting there. Use Wario's
power muscles to break it.

It will reveal the Star Switch.
Activate it and you will see the
Star appear behind a mesh wall.
The timer is about 8 seconds.
Wario can't reach the Star. You
are gonna need some help for
this one. Head towards the mesh
wall, and a door is near it.
Follow the one way path from the
door until you reach an
elevator, taking you back to the
haunted shed. Head out to the
Mansion. Instead of going
inside, head to the back of the
Mansion, and inside the back
door there. A Boo will be
wearing a Luigi Cap. Kill him
and grab the Cap. Head back
outside now and goto the front
of the Mansion. Once inside,
head to the second floor, and
the door on the right side of
the wall. Get the ? Red Block
Power Flower. Here comes the Mad
Dash! Head to the left of the
room. Under a ! Yellow Block is
fake floor. It tilts. Stay on
the left side and wait for you
to fall over from the floor. You
will fall to the first floor and
miss land, cause you will fall
into the pit and land in the
basement waters. Head to land,
and to the left. Jump past the
Star Sphere and through the gate
while invisible and quickly
activate the Star Switch. There
is plenty of time to reach the
Star. However, it is a matter of
"Will the invisiblity wear
off?". Quickly head for the gate
and jump through it and break
the glass dome to claim another
Power Star. I don't think there
is any other path to take for
this Star.

However, many (and I mean tons)
of people have E-Mailed me about
an easier method for this Star.
Simply reveal the Switch then
switch to Mario. Activate it
then run across the outside of
the Merry Go Round until you
reach the Star Sphere. Heh, it
works but is a little tricky
(but eons easier than my method
to say the least)

================================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
This place is absolutely full of
freaking Coins! There are eleven
Boo's, each one contains a Blue
Coin. Not to mention, many Mr.
I's, Blue Coin Switch, and
normal enemies, this Star is
rather simple. Just irritating
if you fall down to the basement
all that often. As you start,
there should be a spider or 2
nearby. Kill him for three
Coins. To the left of where you
started, there should be a small
box hoppning up and down a few
inches off the ground. Grab the
box, and it will spring into the
air three times, going higher
and higher each time. After the
thrid time, when it hits the
ground it will break open. Out
will pop out five Yellow Coins.
Meh, that's chip change but
it'll do for now.

Now that there aren't anymore
Coins infront of the Mansion,
head over to the left and look
at the haunted shed. Actually,
don't look-go inside instead!
You have been here many times
before. I'm sure you have seen
the Mr. I staring at you plenty
of times. Run around him three
times. Make sure his actual eye
is actually staring at you as
you run around, otherwise you
won't have his attention and you
won't be able to kill him. After
you succesfully run around him a
few times, he will spin in
defeat, and hand over a Blue
Coin.

You will get to Big Boo's Merry
Go Round later (When it is
convenient) so for now, head out
of the shed. You aren't going to
go inside the Mansion just yet.
Head to the back of the Mansion
like you have done a few times
before. You will see two Spiders
crawling around on the ground.
Kill both, for three Yellow
Coins from each one, for a total
of
6. Then, there are a few more
   Coins stored inside the
   nearby ! Yellow
Block, so break it for some
more. Now, head inside the back
door of the Mansion nearby. You
are in a small room and there
are two Boo's floating around
inside, most likely floating
towards you now. Run around them
and Punch them from behind, or
if you want to, Ground Pound
both of them. They will each
give up a Blue Coin. By now, you
should have at least 25 Coins.

Now there aren't anymore Coins
around the perimeter of the
Mansion. No real choice but to
go inside. Inside the main room
of the Mansion, head towards the
room at the far wall, leftern
door. Inside of this room is
another Boo. To make it less
annoying, use a Ground Pound on
him quickly to kill it and claim
his Blue Coin because another
Mr. I is in this room too. You
know the drill. Run around him
like a little kid, making sure
his pupil is watching your every
move until he spins around and
around and dies, where he gives
you another Blue Coin.

Leave this room now and head
back to the main lobby. Go into
the room on the rightern side of
the back wall this time around,
pretty close to your current
location. Walk around the short
pathway until you reach the
collapsing bridge again. Quickly
(But, of course, to make things
less annoying, carefully) run
across the bridge to the other
side. The camera controls are
pitiful in this room. It is
pretty hard to coordnate
yourself to kill the Boo that
rests on the other side of the
bridge. Killing him with a
Ground Pound is your best
option. Now that you should have
at least 40 Coins, head through
the door to the next room.

In this next, but familar room,
there are thin pathways along
the wall, with no railings at
all. Slowly cross the dreaded
pathway, hugging the wall the
whole time until you reach a
jutted out piece of platform.
There is a Red Coin here, so
grab it for 2 more Coins. Also,
a Boo should be floating towards
you as well. Kill the Boo when
he is entirely over the platform
you are on. You don't want the
precious Blue Coin to fall down
into the basement where it is
impossible to retrieve. That's
around 45-50 Coins so far. Not
bad at all. Much more left. Keep
hugging the wall until you reach
a door leading to the main
lobby.

Head straight across the room to
the door on the other side.
Enter it and you will be in the
dreaded Mad Piano Room. Oh no!
Quickly swing around the Mad
Piano and grab the Red Coin
resting behind it. Exit from the
door on the wall, not the one
however leading to the main
lobby. In this next room is
another 2 bookshelves and a
table, Boo painting in fright,
and a few chairs. Get on top of
both bookshelves with a Double
Jump. On top of each bookshelf
is another Red Coin. You should
have at least 60 Coins by this
point in time.

That is all the Coins on the
first floor of the Mansion. Head
up to the second floor, where
even more Coins await. Head into
the door on the right of the
backern wall. Inside lies
another Mr. I. Run around him a
few times, as long as he is
watching you, until he spins in
defeat. Collect the Blue Coin
then leave the room.

Head into the door on the right
wall. Inside, avoid the giant
books and go to the other side
of the room onto the tilting
floor. Hit the ! Yellow Block
over the floor for a few more
Coins. Now, head for the Red
Coin and get it, then get onto
the platform with the Red ?
Block. As Mario, you can grab it
and then float to the door on
the hidden ledge. As Luigi, you
can easily backflip up there. As
Wario, get ontop of the ? Red
Block, then make a backflip to
reach the attic door. Head
inside the door. You should be
inside the attic.

Near the stairs in the attic
leading towards the doors for
Big Boo's Balcony lies a Blue
Coin Switch. Ground Pound it
(What else???). 4 Blue Coins
will appear, 2 to the left of
the stairs, and 2 to the right
of the stairs. Collect them all
for 20 more Coins. Now, head
over to the Boo-in-fright
painting. Keep your back to the
painting and wait a few seconds
for a Boo to pop out of the
painting. Kill him with a Ground
Pound as he approaches you for
another Blue Coin. By now, we
should have at least 70 Coins,
even 90 if you can.

Head up the short stairs to Big
Boo's Balcony. We have no
business with Big Boo (depending
on the Star you choose to enter
the level, he may be there or
not). If you are Mario, head
behind him and hit the ? Red
Block for a Power Flower, then
float to the roof of the
Mansion. If you are Luigi or
Wario, head to a Long Jump to
the sides of the roof, then
climb the wall of the roof to
the very flat section at he very
top. Walk carefully along it-
there are 6 more Yellow Coins up
here for the taking. Afterwards,
jump off the roof, Ground Pound
before landing.

Now, if you haven't recieved the
Power Star for 100 Coins yet,
there is one last place to
check. On the ground, head for
the haunted shed. Inside, take
the elevator downwards until you
reach the bottom, then run
through the winding path, knee
deep in water until you reach a
door. Go into the door and cross
the long hallway until you reach
another door. In this next room,
head up onto the platform and
enter the door (There many doors
aren't there?) for Big Boo's
Merry Go Round. Head around it
until you find the painting that
is spitting out Boo's. There are
a total of 5 Boo's that come out
of the painting before the
actual Big Boo arrives. Kill all
the Boo's. Each one contains a
Blue Coin. By this point, you
should have at least 100 Coins,
so collect your Power Star. If
you don't have 100 Coins, you
must have missed a few enemies,
or you didn't collect the blue
coins that most of them dropped.
If the former, go back into the
Mansion and find them (Or Red
Coins I missed). If the latter,
then you need to restart the
level to collect the blue coins.

===============
~Getting Luigi~
===============
Its about time we finally
unlocked poor, scared Luigi. His
painting you have found out to
be in Big Boo's Haunt. Head
inside the Mansion at start. As
usual, and make your way up to
the second floor. Head into the
door at the the far right wall.
Grab the Power Flower inside the
Red ? Block in the platform if
Mario, otherwise Backflip up to
the serect attic. Inside the
Attic is the Luigi painting.
Jump inside.

Note:It is quite advantageous to
enter as Mario, as he is faster
and can jump better. Wario
cannot do much stuff in the
secret world that Mario can do
easily. However, both heroes are
neccessary for all 8 Red Coins,
covered later!

Welcome to King Boo's area!
Seems simple when you first get
dropped into a room similar to
Big Boo's Merry Go Round. there
are 4 doors. Does it matter
which one you choose? Actually,
yes it does. 3 doors are fakes.
Enter them and you will reappear
where you are now. 1 door leads
to the next room, so keep doing
that until you are in King Boo's
lair. From where you start, head
inside the door to the right and
enter inside it. You will be
taken to the next room. Just a
note:If you lose all of your
health, or fall in a pit, you
will be back at start of the
merry go round. Anyways, run
across the platform to the
center platform, avoiding the
collapsing bridges tumbling. At
the Mr. I platform, take the
collapsing bridge to the left.
Hurry and get across there for a
door to the next room.

In this next room, there is a
square platform in the middle
with a ? Red Block on it. Under
the block is another tilting
floor. Long Jump to this middle
platform. Then, Long Jump to the
ledge on the right and enter the
door there to be transported to
the next room. There are another
4 ledges with doors, but no
center platform. Instead, there
are several moving platforms.
Look to the left, and get a
running start. Long Jump over to
the platform on the left.

Now you will enter a rather thin
but large room. There is a huge
chasm infront of you, with a
very long collapsing bridge
across it. Get a running start,
and start rushing across the
bridge. Ignore the pesting Boo's
near the bridge, walk into the
1-Up on the bridge and quickly
cross to the other side. You
will see a platform nearby. Jump
onto it and ride it upwards.
When you see another platform,
jump onto it. It will work its
way to the right, stopping near
another platform. Jump onto it.
This platform will ride to the
very top. Now, jump off and hop
into the nearby hole to be
teleported once again.

Now, you will fall down into a
rather large rectanglular room,
with a large mirror infront of
you. Walk up to the mirror and
get into the camera mode behind
your shoulders. Keep the camera
there for a few seconds, then
you will see your reflection
turn into Luigi! Next to you
appears King Boo who will
introduce himself. (Note:I
realize he introduces himself as
Big Boo, but that crown on him,
not to mention that laughter in
the entire level, clearly
signifies he's King Boo). He
will teleport himself to the
other side of the mirror. At
this point, pretend you are
Luigi in that mirror. Simply
Punch King Boo from behind, or
perform a Ground Pound on him.
You can see his shadow on your
side of the mirror, so he's
still easy to hit if you view
the battle like that. He will
then get angry and teleport to
your side of the mirror. Now,
act like the character you
really are now. Ground Pound or
Punch King Boo from behind again
while he is visible. Sometimes
on your side, he will breathe a
few blue flames. Avoid them.
After a 2nd hit he will teleport
back to the other side of the
mirror again. As Luigi, hit him
once more. He will give up and
tell you to visit him anytime
you want. King Boo will
dissappear into the sky, and the
Luigi Key will fall from the
sky. Pick it up to clear the
level.

=========================
~Back to the Castle.....~
=========================
Head back to the character room
and insert the Key into Luigi's
Door. You will have successfully
unlocked Luigi! Awesome. Head
back to the long hallway where
Big Boo's Haunt is, but head
down the long stairs nearby. Put
the Key you got from Bowser into
the door, and head into the
basement. Head along the path,
ignoring the big Star door until
you reach another door. Head
inside, take the path to the
right. Then right again, then
left. Jump onto the platform and
go into the door with a Star on
it. Inside the plumbing room is
a small tub of a silvery liquid.
Jump inside to be teleported to
Hazy Maze Cave.

--------------------------------
 ~V H.Course 6:Hazy Maze Cave~
--------------------------------
Hazy Maze Cave has many paths,
but one simple goal. Get all 8
Stars in the world. The actual
highlight of the cave is, quite
literally, the Hazy Maze lying
within. It is a complex maze of
toxic fumes. Every few seconds
you are in the gas, you lose 1
Health Bar. However, a few Power
Flowers can fix that problem
eliminating damage or even the
need to breathe. Sea beasts,
manual elevators, large gaps,
black holes, and the actual Hazy
Maze, all combine into one
gigantic level. Do your best not
to get completely lost while
navigating the maze.

================================
Star 1-Swimming Beast in the
Cavern Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
needed
================================
The Star title may make you have
second thoughts about this Star.
But don't worry, the swimming
beasy is actually very friendly.
Even though signs around the
level may say otherwise. Welcome
to the Hazy Maze Cave! Many
paths, many routes, and many
Stars lie within this complex
cave. At the start there are
always two ways to go-Left or
Right. There are elevators
around the level so you can
reach other areas if you take
the wrong path. Anyways, for
this Star you want to take the
left path first. Keep running
until you see a large gap in the
ground. Long Jump your way
across it and then open the door
to the next room.

You are now in the Black Hole
Room. This room got its name
for, obviously, the gigantic
black hole in the middle of the
room. At the other end of the
room are giant boulders falling
from the sky rolling towards the
hole, then fall into it. Head to
the right on the red grating
path. There are some Swoopers
and a Spider on the grating, so
avoid them from getting pushed
off of the path into the hole.
Keep going, passing the wooden
door on the right, and over
another grating. Now you are on
the path the big boulders are
on. Stay close to the wall to
avoid chances of being hit by
one of these giant boulders.
Keep going until the path goes
to the right. Follow it, then
open the door to the next room.

In this next small room there is
a wire wall seperating you and a
Star, but this isn't the Star
you are currently searching for.
In this room also is an
elevator. Ride it down quite a
long ways to the bottom. Then,
follow the short path with
Goombas to the water.

Now you are actually in the
cavern of the swimming beast.
His name is Dorrie (Yes, that is
a guy). He is calmly swimming
peacefully around a small island
in the middle of the giant pool.
Hop into the water if you
haven't yet already and swim
around the cavern to get a look
at things. There is a ! Switch
and a nearby gate, also a high
platform with double doors WAY
out of reach above the water.
That is for later as well. For
now, however, swim around the
cavern until you reach Dorrie
who is swimming slowly. You may
notice something he is wearing
on his head. Get onto Dorrie's
back and do a Ground Pound. He
will screech and then lower his
neck. Walk on her neck and get
onto her head. You will pick up
the Wario Cap he is wearing if
you aren't already Wario. Now,
on his head, he will rise back
up.

On Dorrie's head, you are pretty
much in control of him. Face the
direction on his head to make
him swim in that direction. Look
around for the small island in
the lagoon. Wait until Dorrie
swims close to the island and
then jump off of the kind sea
creatures' back onto the island.
Grab the coins if you want to.
There is a gigantic boulder in
this island. Break it with Wario
to reveal the Star.

================================
Star 2-Elevate for 8 Red Coins
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
Once again you will need to
collect the eight red coins
hidden somewhere within the
level. Fortunately for you they
are all near eachother, making
this a pretty simple Star. Some
Red Coins are lying in boxes in
this mission. Because of the
fact Yoshi can't punch even with
fists, he is useless for the
challenge. As the title says,
you will be using elevators to
collect your Red Coins. Anyways,
start off this Star by heading
down the right path this time.
Stay to the left side as you see
a Spider jump from a bottomless
pit. After that pit, avoid a
small one on the left, then take
the wide left path around
another pit. Then, you should
see a door over a small but wide
pit. Two flame towers emerge
from it every few seconds, so
avoid that, then jump across. On
the other side, go inside the
door there.

In this next but large room you
will find yourself on a high
platform with a cage to the
right. To the left of you is a
pole. Use that pole to slide
down and touch the ground. Head
to the right now and keep on
running. In the near distance
are a series of very large
stairs that take a few jumps to
get up. Jump on the first one,
then the next and then the last
one. Jump onto the platform next
to them.

Now, turn around and face to the
right. You should see the metal
Work Elevator infront of you,
awaiting you commands. Jump onto
the middle of it. The Work
Elevator is 100% Manual. It
operates this way. You can
clearly see the 4 directional
arrows on the elevator, can't
you? If you step on an arrow,
the Work Elevator will move at
an even pace in that direction.
The Work Elevator stops motion
if you get off of it. If your
off for too long, it will
disappear in reappear in its
original position. So as a
recap:Directional arrows you
step on to make motion. You
don't to stand on it for the
button to stay pressed. Only 1
button at a time can be pressed.
If you hit a button while
another is already pushed, the
elevator starts moving in the
new direction.

Now, the directions I am going
to give you are assumed you are
facing to the right of the Star
Sphere on a platform infront of
you. Anyways, hit the forward
button to start the elevator
moving forwards slowly. Now,
before the elevator crashes into
the platform, hit the left
button (Note: If the elevator
crashes into something, the
button the opposite will be
automatically active)Next, when
you see a nearby platform with
the Star Sphere I was talking
about eariler, crash into it.
Its no big deal. The elevator
will shake a little. While it is
shaking, hit the forward button
one more. When the elevator is
clear of the platform, hit the
left button to get the elevator
to move left now. Soon enough, a
small brick block will come into
view. When the elevator is lined
up with the block (And is still
moving left), hit the forward
button. Now, just wait until the
block is close enough, then
punch it to reveal the Red Coin.

Now, after plowing into your
first Red Coin, keep on going
until you see a large middle
platform with a Mr. I on it.
Once you crash into it, activate
the right elevator button to
start that motion. Soon enough
another brick block will come
into view. When the Work
Elevator is lined up with it,
activate the forward button to
do that motion. When the block
is within range, Punch it. There
is no Red Coin in here however.
That was just to get that
useless brick out of your way.
Keep on going forward until you
see a long but thin line of
platform. It is pretty low. The
elevator will slip right under
it, but you need to jump over
it. If you don't, you will slide
off of it and likely fall back
to the ground, in which case you
will need to work yourself all
the way back up here. Now, keep
on going forward until another
red brick comes into view. When
the elevator is lined up with
this brick, activate the Right
arrow to move the elevator in
that direction. Now, when the
brick is within range Punch it
to reveal your second Red Coin.
Don't get off the elevator just
yet. Ride it over to the top
right corner of the room (If the
elevator is still moving right
you are fine). On a small
platform in this corner is
another Red Coin. Grab your
third coin, then jump off the
platform to ground.

There is no need to worry about
the Work Elevator anymore. You
have collected all of the Red
Coins we can from the Work
Elevator alone. Now, head back
straight from where you are off
the platform until you reach the
wall. Then, head along across
the long hall towards to the
right until you reach the stairs
all the way at the other side
again. Now, head up the stairs
again by jumping as usual and
get onto the upper platform.
Facing the Star Sphere, get onto
the Work Elevator and Long Jump
over to it. Using the Work
Elevator works as well.

Now, you should see a purple
pole near the Star Sphere. Climb
the pole quickly then once you
reach the top jump off onto the
top platform. Now that you are
here, look to your left. You
should see another tiny platform
across a brick block. This is
the Automatic Elevator. This
type of elevator is,
fortunately, automatic! You have
no control over it. It follows a
preset path until the user jumps
off of it for a few seconds,
where it then returns to its
original position.

Walk onto the Automatic Elevator
and face the direction it starts
to move in. The elevator will
start to move pretty quickly.
Its path will put you directly
in line for your fourth Red
Coin. It is inside a crate
though, so you need to punch it
open to reveal it. Next, the
elevator will continue to chug
along its path and you will find
your fifth Red Coin just there
in mid air. No need to move, the
elevator will pass right under
it and you are tall enough to
just stand and recieve this
glorious beauty. That's 5 Red
Coins down!

Continue to stay seated/standing
on the elevator. You will see a
little platform looking like
this:
   RC
----------
|Elevator|

The Elevator travels under the
small platform, the Red Coin
simply lies on it. You need to
jump over the platform, grab the
Red Coin, and get back onto the
platform rather quickly. Now,
its a pretty simple ride from
here. Eventually you will come
to a large floating platform on
the elevator's right hand side.
Here, you need to jump off of
the Automatic Elevator. Hurry
along (Or take your time...no
difference) and grab the nearby
seventh Red Coin. And quite
conveniently nearby where the
seventh Red Coin lies is your
eighth and final Red Coin. Hurry
along and grab this last Red
Coin, then jump onto the
elevator.

The Power Star will appear in
the middle of the large room you
are currently in right now. Wait
until the elevator passes where
it started, then walk off onto
the brick block. Walk to the
right and slide down the purple
pole. Now, jump off of the
platform you are on right now
that has the Star Sphere. Keep
on walking now that you aren't
on your platform and keep
heading towards the middle of
the room according to the map.
The Power Star is waiting for
you there.

================================
Star 3-Metal Head Wario Can Move
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed
================================
You are going to be needing
Wario's Power Flower ability of
turning Metal for this
particular Star. If you don't
start off as Wario, head to the
right of where you begin and
keep going until you see a
Goomba that is acting silly with
Wario's Cap. After getting the
Wario Cap if neccassary, head
back to the start of the world.

From where you start at the
beginning of the world, you as
usual have 2 paths to choose
from. This time around for this
Star choose the left path. When
you get to the large gap in the
ground Long Jump just as you are
at the edge. The reason is
because Wario can't jump for
crap, and his Long Jump isn't
very long.

After clearing the gap, head
inside the wooden door infront
of you to enter the Black Hole
Room. Stay on the main path,
heading towards the right. Avoid
the enemies to avoid getting
pushed off, especially if you
are wearing a Wario Cap because
you don't want to waste time
going back to get a new one.
Head past the Spider and the
Swooper until you are on solid
platform. Ignore the wooden door
there and keep going heading
onto the wire grating path. When
you get onto the area where the
giant boulders are, they WILL
knock the Cap off of you if you
are wearing Wario's, so hug the
wall carefully to avoid them.
After getting past them, head to
the right and enter the metal
door that is there.

You have been in this room
plenty of times. That Star on
the other side of the mesh wall
is probably irritating you to
get. Get onto the elevator
waiting in the floor. Once you
are on it ride it all the way to
the bottom as usual. However,
don't follow the path to the
lagoon just yet. As Wario, you
have stuff to do.

Before heading for the path with
Goombas, you should see a ? Red
Block right near where the
elevator lands at the bottom.
Inside is as usual a Power
Flower. Hit the block and grab
the Power Flower to turn Wario
into a metal machine. Head down
the light brown path of Goombas,
knocking them out of the way if
you want. There isn't much time
because Metal power is short
lived. Head into the water. By
now you should now you just fall
and sink to the bottom
underwater, but don't need to
breathe. Underwater there is an
easily seen light brown path
compared to the rest of the
ground. Follow this path until
you come to a short wall. Jump
up to the top to find a !
Switch. Activate it.

Nearby, two large mesh wire
doors will swing open, allowing
you access to the wooden door
that laid behind it. Enter the
wooden door there. You will now
be in the abanded mine shaft
(Gee, I can understand why).
There is a large gap infront of
you now. Getting a running
start, head for the gap and Long
Jump to the very thin platform
in the middle. There isn't much
landing room here, so you need
to have a perfect Long Jump.
Now, there is another large gap
infront of you. You can't get a
running start, so you will have
to make due without it. Start
running (Hardly able to though)
and then Long Jump before the
gap. You should be able to make
it. Near the wall on the other
side of this rather large gap
lies another Power Star ready
for the taking. Grab it to clear
the level.

================================
Star 4-Navigating the Toxic Maze
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi for easy path,
else Mario
================================
Its just the plain and simple
fact that there is almost always
more than one way to get a Star.
Not to mention one of those ways
can be a bit... sneaky, cheap,
unfair, and downright easy. As
Luigi, you are gonna abuse his
Power of being invisible. So
obviously, it is most
advantageous to start as Luigi.

As you start the level as Luigi,
head and take the left path like
you did in the previous Star. If
you don't start as Luigi, his
cap can be found in the elevator
room with the red coins. As you
approach the gap, perform a Long
Jump right before you get to the
edge of the gap. Once you are on
the other side, enter through
the door.

Now you will be in the Black
Hole Room. Make your way over
the red grating avoiding the
enemies to make sure that you
don't get pushed into the Black
Hole of death. Once you make
your way around the enemies,
follow the path ignoring the
wooden door as usual. If you
went to the red coin room to get
a Luigi Cap, then there is a
long hallway with a wooden door
at the end at the corner of the
room. This door leads the the
black hole room. Make your way
across the other red grating
bridge and to the path of the
falling boulders. Avoid them by
hugging the wall and slowly
making your way northwards to
avoid the giant boulders as the
path turns to the right.

As the path goes right, head
into the door that follows it.
The next room contains the Star
you want. Behind the mesh gate
lies that annoying Star you hate
so much. Get onto the elevator
that waits patiently in the
middle of the room. Get onto it
and just sit there as it slowly
makes its way all the way to the
bottom near the lagoon. Make
sure the elevator is at the
bottom for this part.

If you jumped off of the
elevator before it reached the
ground, that's ok. There isn't
much of a big deal there. As you
or the elevator and you reach
the bottom of the lagoon area,
hit the ? Red Block nearby for a
Power Flower to come out. If the
elevator hasn't reached the
bottom yet, let the Power Flower
wait on the floor until the
elevator is completly at the
bottom. Once the elevator has
finally made it to the bottom
and has stopped, pick up the
Power Flower.

Quickly hop onto the elevator.
There isn't much time. It's
pretty much just up to waiting
for the elevator to reach the
top? Once the stupidly slow
elevator makes its way to the
top, quickly run off of the
elevator and, as you are still
(hopefully) invisible, run right
through the gate. Now that you
are through that annoying mesh
gate, nothing stops you from the
Star.

If you want to complete this
Star normally, then head back to
the red coin room. Left of the
pole you use to slide down into
the room is a hallway. Head past
this hallway to another short
hallway leading to a door. In
here is the entrance to the Hazy
Maze. Drop down into it. Run
straight, ignoring the enemies,
then head right when you hit the
wall. Head left at the ledge,
then follow the path until the
ground dips into the ground. On
the wall to the left you should
see light green stripes. Head
over to them and Double Jump to
grab onto the ledge (go into
over your shoulder camera view
to get a better look if
necessary). Head through the
door here. Head up the elevator
at the end of the hallway, and
you will appear behind the mesh
gating, allowing you to grab the
Star.

================================
Star 5-A-Maze-Ing Emergency Exit
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Wario, Luigi
================================
Ah yes, now you actually have to
go into the Hazy Maze to access
this Star! Note:I have found
reports of people actually being
able to get this Star without
going through the Hazy Maze. I
think I saw a video once, but
it's been lost and nobody can
really confirm whether or not it
is possible to get this Star
without entering the Hazy Maze.
I think it's fake, the Star is
far too high for a simple
backflip to get even close to.

Anyways, surviving the actual
Hazy Maze Cave can be quite an
ordeal for your lungs. The
noxious gas that lies inside is
quite toxic. One whiff and you
lose 1 Health Bar. Only Luigi's
and Wario's Power Flower
abilities allow them to easily
not breathe the gas, and quickly
head for the A-Maze-Ing Exit.
Start off as either one of the
characters. Instead of going
left like you have for the past
while, head to the right this
time. You will see a Spider pop
out of the darkness pit
unexpectedly, so be prepared and
not get hurt. Continue along the
path, avoiding the bottomless
pits on both sides. Right here
are 2 Goombas doing nothing
really. If you aren't Wario,
grab the Cap on one of their
heads. If you aren't Wario or
Luigi and want to be Luigi,
don't bother with his Cap as you
can get Luigi's also. Continue
along this path until you reach
a small gap, with 2 towers of
flames emitting from the pit
every few seconds. While the
flames are down, jump across to
the other side.

On the other side of this gap is
a door. Enter the door to be on
a platform high above this large
room. Near where you are
currently standing is a red and
rusted pole. Get on the pole and
slide down to the bottom of the
room. If you want to be Luigi
for this mission, head straight
over to the top right corner of
the room. You will find a few
Goombas. One is wearing a Mario
Cap and the other is wearing a
Luigi Cap. Kill the Goomba with
the Luigi Cap and collect it to
be Luigi. Now, head back over to
where we were, under the tall
pole. To the left of where you
are standing is a pathway. Don't
go through that pathway. Keep
heading straight until there is
another pathway to the left.
Head into the pathway, which is
short and comes to a door. Enter
that door. Head along the short
and winding pathway until you
see a large map on the wall, a
hole in the ground, and a few
coins. Jump into the hole.

You are now in the actual Hazy
Maze. There is limited time to
survive in here if you aren't
Luigi or Wario. See the purple
gas? That's the toxic haze. In
that for every few seconds you
will easily lose 1 Heath Bar.
From where you land from falling
from the hole into the maze, you
will immediately lose 1 Health
Bar. Quickly run up to safe
land. A Sniffit flies nearby.
Straight ahead is a ? Red Block.
Hit that block to become either
Invisible or Metal. Regardless
of which form you are, you won't
need to breathe the toxic fumes
for the time the Power lasts.
Quickly run to the right. When
you come to a ledge, go to the
left of it. Keep going over land
until you pass a small piece of
raised land with a Monty Mole.
There is a high ledge just past
this area. Double Jump or
backflip up to it. Go throught
the metal door there. Go along
the winding path until you reach
an elevator. Get onto the
elevator and ride it to the top.
Exit out through the door when
you get to it. Now you are high
above the black hole room.
Double Jump up to the Wire Mesh
Over Hang and hang onto it.
There are 2 paths to take while
holding onto the mesh. Take the
right path. Keep moving forward
on the mesh path and then the
path takes a right. Then, the
path stops over a platform high
high above the Black Hole. This
platform happens to contain the
Power Star, so grab it to clear
the level.

================================
Star 6-Watch For Falling Rocks
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed
================================
Remember those giant boulders
that were consistantly falling
and rolling into the Black Hole?
Those boulders hold a secret,
and that is needed to get this
Star. If you aren't Wario right
now, take the right path from
the start, and avoid the
bottomless pits until you find
the typical Goomba wearing that
darned Wario Cap. Kill the
Goomba and put it on. Head back
to where you first started.

At the beginning of the cave,
take the path to the left this
time around. Once you reach the
same old gap like you have
countless times before, get a
running start if you haven't
already, then Long Jump to the
other side before running into
the pit. On the other side, head
into the door lying just infront
of you.

Now, follow the red grating path
as usual, dodging the enemies to
avoid the risk of falling into
the Black Hole of doom. Ignore
the wooden door nearby as usual.
Follow the path around and go
across another red grating
bridge over a side of the Black
Hole. Now, instead of going
straight into Boulder Territory,
head left until you reach a
black brick. Punch it and a
Mushroom will pop out of the
block. Grab the Mushroom to
become Super-Sized Wario! Time
to smash!

Head back over to the oncoming
barrage of boulders. As Super
Wario, you can simply walk into
the boulders, and they will
explode upon contact. A number
will appear after the
destruction of each boulder.
Once you destroy three boulders,
your Star will appear at the top
of the pathway the boulders roll
over. Also as a note, you don't
need to use the Mushroom to
destroy the boulders. A simple
Punch destroys them too. But the
timing for the Punch on the
boulders is a bit harder, so I
recommend using the Mushroom.
Grab the Star afterwards. It
appears at the spot where the
boulders fall to the ground.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star Underground
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Wario to get Switch,
then anybody
================================
Another Star Swithc lies under
another Black Brick, so you need
Wario again for another mission.
Obviously, Wario is needed to
reach the switch, but I advise
Mario or Luigi for their high
jumps after the Switch is
revealed. Anyways, head to the
path towards the right once you
begin. Keep avoiding the spiders
and the bottomless pits nearby
until you reach a pair of
Goombas just walking around
aimlessly. If you aren't Wario,
one of these Goombas is wearing
a Wario Cap. Grab the Cap after
killing the Goomba if you need
it. After that, keep running
past the next pit on the right,
and then you will come to the
pit with 2 flame towers coming
out of nowhere. Because Wario
can't jump even if he was paid
to do good, a Long Jump is your
safest action. Crashing into the
wall on the other side won't
knock you into the pit. Enter
the door there.

As you have been here before,
you should be familar with you
being at a high platform high
above this large room. Jump onto
the nearby pole and slide down
to the bottom and touch the
ground. Head along the wall
straight ahead. Keep on going,
passing the nearby enemies that
won't hinder you at all. Keep
going until you reach the the
wall at the other side. Turn to
the left once you reach this
corner. You should see 2 Goombas
close by this corner. One has a
Mario Cap, and the other a Luigi
Cap. Kill them both, but don't
collect the caps.

Continue moving forward until
you finally reach a black brick
near another corner of this
large room. Using Wario's
immense strength, Punch the
block to destroy it. Once the
block is clear away from you, a
Star Switch will be revealed.
Quite intresting. Before you in
a quickmotion activate the Star
Switch, you're going to be doing
a usual mad dash. Nearby the
Star Switch should be the Luigi
and Mario Caps. Collect either
one as their speed is needed to
grab the Star quickly.

Once you have either Mario or
Luigi (Or lose the Wario Cap and
become Yoshi again if you are),
head over to the Star Switch.
But first, manuver the camera to
face the giant stairs always
infront of you as best as you
can. Now, activate the Star
Switch. The Star will appear in
the Star Sphere near a purple
pole.

There isn't a lot of time so
quickly start running. Keep
going until you are remotely
close to the giant stairs. First
Jump. Then do a Double Jump, and
when you are right near the
stairs, pull of the Triple Jump.
If you aimed and timed your
jumps correctly, you will have
quickly already be at the top of
the stairs, which saves time.
Now, head over onto the Work
Elevator. There isn't any time
to waste operating it, so Long
Jump onto the next platform.
Near this platform you jumped to
is a purple pole, and the Star
Sphere. Grab the Star.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:****/*****
Recommended Character:Luigi
===========================
Its that time again! Find the
100 Coins lurking in this god
forsaken world. The Hazy Maze
Cave is very complex, and there
are mutiple ways of accoplishing
this Star. The difference is the
order you collect the Coins in.
Hazy Maze Cave isn't a gold mine
or anything, your going to have
to kill everything to reach 100
Coins, but barely. Its very hard
because death is everywhere.
I'll cover the cave in my
personal order, not hard to
understand.

But why 4/5 difficulty? I
already said. Its a race.
Killing almost every enemy
findable and getting their coins
is not easy at all. You, most
likely, will be taking several
trips into the actual Hazy Maze
to hoard all of the Coins that
are in there. Anyways, Luigi has
the speed, the jump, and the
Power Flower Ability to survive
everything in the level, so no
need to worry with the man in
green around. As usual, start
off by taking the path to the
right. You'll get to the leftern
path later. Near a pit coming up
a spider will jump out. Kill him
for an easy 3 Coins. Next, is
the lovely pair of 2 Goombas.
Kill them both for another Coin
each. Near where the Goombas
were is a thin ledge, with 5
Coins on it. Carefully get on
the ledge and grab the Coins and
walk back onto wide ground, away
from death. Now, after the fire
shooters stop coming from the
pit infront of you, jump across
the gap and enter the door.

You'll be in the common large
room again, on a high platform.
Yay. Head down the nearby pole
and land on the bottom. Head
straight along the wall, not
turning onto any of the paths.
There are a few Spiders in this
room, along with a few Goombas.
That's about 10 more Coins to
your total. Chip change really,
how sad. Now, head over to the
bottom left corner of this room,
where the large stairs are. Jump
up to the top and get onboard
the Work Elevator. I'll give you
directions based on the fact
your back should be facing the
wall behind you. Get the
elevator in motion, heading
forwards. Then, make it go left
until you either hit a platform,
in which case go up, then left
once you clear it. After that,
head forwards once you are lined
up with a brick box. Heading
forward, break it once your able
to. It'll have a Red Coin
inside. Keep heading forward,
then taking a right once you
meet the platform with the Mr. I
on it. Head to the right, then
back up. A box is near you to
break, but nothing is in it.
Keep heading forwards until
another brick box is lined up
with you on the left, then head
left and break the box for
another Red Coin. Keep going
until you reach the corner
platform, where another Red Coin
lies. Get it, and hop back on
the elevator. Head backwards,
moving to the right as well
until your on the Mr. I
platform. Run around Mr. I not
falling off until he spins in
defeat. He will give up a Red
Coin once you kill him. Now,
jump off and go back to the
stairs. Climb back up to the top
again.

Once at the top, get on the Work
Elevator and Long Jump to the
nearby platform with a Star
Sphere. Once there, climb up the
purple pole to the top, then
walk across the brick to the
Automatic Elevator. As it moves
by itself, punch the brick when
it comes nearby, and grab the
Red Coin it was hiding. Then,
the Elevator will pass you
through another Red Coin. Then,
it will go under a platform, and
over that same platform is a Red
Coin. Just ride the elevator to
the final platform with 2 more
Red Coins. The Star will appear,
but that's not the one we want.
Hop off, and pound the ground
before you hit it. Walk over to
the middle of the room and turn
left through the walkway, then
enter the door there. Walk along
the pathway and collect the
nearby 5 Coins.

Prepare yourself as Luigi. Mad
dashes all about! Enter the hole
nearby to appear in the Hazy
Maze. You'll fall into the toxic
gas, so quickly get to dry land.
Kill the nearby Sniffits for 2
Coins each. Now, grab the Power
Flower inside the nearby ? Red
Block. After getting it, quickly
run right and onto the ledge. A
Blue Coin Switch is there.
Activate it, then run behind you
and follow the trail of telltale
Blue Coins. Quickly run through
the maze and collect them.
Double Jump to reach the set of
3 Blue Coins in the air. That's
about an additional 40 or so
Coins. Your Invisiblilty Power
by now is probably running out.
Don't fret though. Suck it up
like a man. Keep heading deeper
into the maze. Many Swoopers and
Sniffits will find you before
reaching dry land again. kill
them all for Coins. Now, at this
section of land you should take
a left, and follow the path for
some more giant stairs. Climb
them then go down the slide to
be back in the giant room again.
By now you should have 70+
Coins.

If you don't, head back into the
Hazy Maze and kill more enemies.
Now, head right from where you
exited. Go one hallway past
where the Hazy Maze entrance
door is, then take a right and
go down the long hallway. You'll
come to an elevator. Ride it up
all the way to the top, then
exit out through the door there.
Your in the Black Hole Room now.
Take a left and kill the Spiders
there for more Coins. Head back
to the right and follow the
boulder path upwards. You'll
find an additional 5 Coins to
the side as well. Go through the
door to the right when you get
to it. When you enter the next
room, get the circle of 8 Coins
around a block, then head down
the elevator. At the bottom,
kill the nearby Goombas for a
few Coins. Then, swim out into
the lagoon and to the center
island and collect the Coins
that rest there. By now you
should have at least 100 Coins.
If not, check back for enemies
you might have missed.

=========================
~Back to the Castle.....~
=========================
Hazy Maze Cave has been fully
completed! Head out of the room,
and back into the main basement.
Nearby should be a large picture
of a fireball. Enter that
painting.

--------------------------------
~V I.Course 7:Lethal Lava Land~
--------------------------------
Ah yes. Lethal Lava Land. One of
my favorite courses. Let's just
say its quite full of lava.
Isn't that great? Lava lava
everywhere! However, this is one
of the greatest Koopa Surfin'
spots, so hop on and take it for
a ride! Lethal Lava Land is
pretty much a large series of
platforms. Most of them moving,
or sinking back into lava and
coming out. Watch your every
move because the lava certainly
isn't a place you want to
commonly land in, or is suicide
your option?

===========================
Star 1-Boil the Big Bully
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
It's always best to get a Star
the easiest way possible right?
I'm sure most of you agree with
me. Lethal Lava Land isn't a
place to play around in.
Touching thst hot stuff will
damper your parade, so Mario and
his Wing Cap are highly advised.
When you start you will be
advised to fight back against
Bullies. A Bully is a small
black ball with horns and just
eyes. If they see you they will
ram into you, trying to push you
into the lava. Ground Pound them
or Punch them into the lava
first to kill them. Anyways,
when you start, turn around. You
should see an island in the
distance. Long Jump to this
island.

Now that you are on this island,
jump up into the Red ? Block and
grab the Wings that float out of
it. Triple Jump to soar up and
start flying. From where you are
flying, keep going straight. To
your left, you should soon see a
spinning platform with 2 fire
emitters on it, circling around.
Make sure that's on your left so
your going to the right
destination. In the distance you
will see a large brown platform
infront of a very tall black
tower. Soon the Big Bully will
come into view. He is your
target. Land on the platform to
start the battle.

Beating the Big Bully is a
rather easy and simple feat.
There are many ways to defeat
him. Choose one of the available
options (As they are the only
ways to beat him). You can keep
Punching him over and over again
until he falls into the lava.
You can also do the same thing,
only with Ground Pounds. Or, if
you are still flying with Mario,
simply keep pushing him while in
the air. Hey, whatever works!
Another technique that makes
this feat rather simple also it
to get near the edge of the
platform, and have the camera
face you, so you can see the Big
Bully. Crouch down, then when
the Big Bully comes near you,
perform a Backflip. Once behind
him, quickly Punch Big Bully
into the lava. Another
alternative instead of a
backflip is to simply move out
of Big Bully's way when he comes
towards you at the edge. Then a
simple Punch/Ground Pound will
push the bastard into the lava.
You can also jump ontop of the
Big Bully to shove him. Whatever
way you choose, the Power Star
will appear ontop of the nearby
black tower. Its near
imposssible to reach up there
alone however, so a stairway
bridge appears. However, there
is a catch. It is a collapsing
bridge. Quickly jump up to the
top and claim the Star.

===========================
Star 2-Bully the Bullies
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
Hmmm, another Star involving
these Bullies? Don't you think
there just might be a shortcut
for this? Heh. There is. There
almost always it. Start off as
Mario to have the easiest time
while trying to accomplish this
Star. Turn around from where you
start off and face the island
not too far away from you. Get a
running start then Long Jump
over the lava to clear it and
land on the island.

Now, hit the Red ? Block that is
on the island, and watch the
Wing Cap float down piecefully.
Pick them up and do a Triple
Jump to start flying over Lethal
Lava Land. You want to be aiming
a little bit farther right this
time around while flying. Once
the platform with the Big Bully
from the previous Star comes
into view, head right of him and
keep going until another
platform with the exact same
shape is visible. Three normal
Bullies are on it. Land on the
platform.

Beating normal Bullies is rather
simple of course. A simple
Ground Pound or a Punch will
knock them back a few steps.
Keep on repeating the process
until they all fall into the
scorching lava. The only hard
part about this feat is that 2
or all 3 at a time might be
attacking you, so aiming for
one, while another is ramming
you isn't very easy. Try to lure
away one of the Bullies at a
time away from the group, that
way you can easily kill them.
Afterwards, Big Bully will fall
down.

Beating the Big Bully is a
rather easy and simple feat.
There are many ways to defeat
him. Choose one of the available
options (As they are the only
ways to beat him). You can keep
Punching him over and over again
until he falls into the lava.
You can also do the same thing,
only with Ground Pounds. Or, if
you are still flying with Mario,
simply keep pushing him while in
the air. Hey, whatever works!
Another technique that makes
this feat rather simple also it
to get near the edge of the
platform, and have the camera
face you, so you can see the Big
Bully. Crouch down, then when
the Big Bully comes near you,
perform a Backflip. Once behind
him, quickly Punch Big Bully
into the lava. Another
alternative instead of a
backflip is to simply move out
of Big Bully's way when he comes
towards you at the edge. Then a
simple Punch/Ground Pound will
push the bastard into the lava.
Jumping ontop the Big Bully
works the same like before. He
hasn't changed since the last
time you fought him.

Once you push him into the lava,
the Power Star will appear
nearby your position on the same
platform, so run and get it. If
you ever run low on health in
this fight, collect some of the
coins in the center of the
platform.

================================
Star 3-8 Red Coin Puzzle With 15
Pieces Difficulty:Joke
Star/***** Recommended
Character:Anybody
================================
Well, somebody at Nintendo was
too lazy to think of clever
hiding places for the red coins,
so they put all eight in the
exact same place. Seriously,
this is considered the easiest
Star in the game. There's a
moving puzzle. Red Coins lie on
top of them. Dandy. Anyways,
start off by running forward,
jumping the small gap when you
come to it. Take a left under
the archway and continue up the
stairs and to the left. Go
across the raising and falling
bridge to a small caged area
with a Mr. I.

Get past the Mr. I. And continue
along the pathway and jump onto
a triangle shaped platform. It
is sinking into the lava
partially, and coming back up,
where the other half of the
platform is then dipped into the
molten hot lava. Doesn't
touching that hot stuff sound
fun? Avoid falling into it, so
time your running well.

Turn to the right and you shall
see the puzzle I have been
talking about for a while. It is
a large puzzle of Bowser, one of
those really annoying puzzles
where you move a piece into an
empty space, and try to complete
the picture. That's what's going
on here. However, floating above
8 of the puzzle pieces are 8 Red
Coins. Kill me now people. This
couldn't be any easier. (Then
again, Nintendo could have just
given them to you). Maybe it
could be easier.

Hop onto the 15-piece Puzzle of
Bowser. Quickly run around,
avoiding the "Empty Spot"
revealing lava. If a piece
shakes for a second, it is about
to move into the "Empty Spot" so
if your standing on the shaking
piece, jump, then wait for
another piece to fill the gap.
When the picture of Bowser is
completed (Which is done roughly
every 30 seconds) no pieces will
move for about 3 seconds. Simply
keep your cool, don't panic, and
quickly retrieve all of the 8
Red Coins. The Power Star will
appear nearby, so grab it to
clear the level.

===========================
Star 4-Red-Hot Log Rolling
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
The one thing about Lethal Lava
Land is how there is always an
easy way to reach every single
Star. It takes the difficulty
out of things, by quite a lot.
It annoys me. Oh well. From
where you start turn around and
face the island situated in lava
that we have been to before.
Long Jump over to it.

Once you are on the small
island, hit the ? Red Block from
below with Mario to have another
set of Wings to fall from the
box. I think by now you should
know the drill. Grab the damn
Wing Cap. Wow. What a surprise
that statement was. Triple Jump
as usual into the air and start
flying towards a giant and tall
black gate past near where you
started. It's impossible,
however, to fly directly at the
gate and hope to god you don't
fall into the lava, so we are
gonna have to make a brief
jumping stop firstly.

Keep flying striaght until you
see a small black arch, the same
one you passed under in the
previous Star. Land on the flat
surface on the top of it. Now,
face the giant gate infront of
you and make a big, tall Triple
Jump. Your jump should be high
enough even if it isn't that
tall. Start flying towards the
gate, and try most importantly
now to lose too much altitude.
You need to fly towards safe
ground, which is near the left
corner of the gated cage, where
the 2 walls of cage connect.
Once you have safely flown over
the tall gate, and are sure you
are above this spot in the cage,
do a Ground Pound to fall down.
If you were too high you may
lose some Health Bars, but that
isn't a big deal with what's
about to happen. Near where you
are standing now, head down a
thin pathway with arrows down to
where the next Power Star
resides, all in easy reach.

================================
Star 5-Hot-Foot-It Into the
Volcano Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
During this whole time in Lethal
Lava Land you may have noticed a
small volcano in the world's
center area. That is your next
destination. The island behind
you this time around is utterly
pointless, so continue to move
forward when you start and Long
Jump across the small gap when
you come to it. Just to make
getting to the Star much easier,
don't bother going under the
archway this time, but continue
heading straight. You will end
on a small platform with a brick
block and a ! Block. Hit the !
Block and the jump onto the
Koopa Shell that falls.

Hop on the Koopa Shell for Ode
to Invincibility, or at least
until you hit a solid object
like a wall, which there are
plenty of within Lethal Lava
Land. Anyways, the Koopa Shell
is a 1-Way ticket to your final
destination very quickly.
Enemies? Shred through them.
Walls? Avoid them as best as
possible. The shell breaks after
colliding with a solid object,
so watch out! Now, once you hop
onto the Shell, start riding
towards the giant gate that
blocked easy passage from the
previous Star. Right before you
reach the wall, take a left.
Jump over any platforms that may
be in your way because you don't
want to lose that shell. Now,
eventually to your left you will
see a large spinning platform,
with a volcano in the middle of
it. Isn't that lucky? Hop onto
the spinning platform, but avoid
getting disoriented, then try to
slide up the volcano. Jump, then
aim to fall into the middle of
it.

Now, you will fall right into
the bottom of the volcano. Don't
worry, even though there is a
huge waterfall of lava
(Lavafall?) doesn't mean you
have to quickly escape the
deadly volcano as the lava
levels never actually rise. Take
a good look of your
surroundings. You have two paths
to go-The one infront of you and
the path behind you. For this
Star, you need to take the path
that lies infront of us. Jump
over to the next platform. A few
Coins are on it, and some
fireballs are constantly jumping
over the platform. Cross it then
jump to the next smaller
platform. Careful of the lava,
then jump to the platform
sticking out of the wall.

Now you are on the outer edge of
the volcano, and will be here
for some time. Keep moving
forward on this relatively thin
ledge. You will see a small hole
in the wall, but don't go near
it. It's actually another fire
emitter, which may make you go
screaming off the edge if
touched. After it blows the
flames, run past it and jump up
to the next ledge. There is an
annoying Bully on this here
ledge, so its best to avoid him
so not to fall. Jump to the next
ledge.

Now, you may have noticed there
are plenty of booby traps inside
the volcano (Who the hell would
expect someone jumping into a
volcano?). The ledge you are
standing on now has another
booby trap waiting for you. Walk
forward and part of the wall
will crash to the floor. Stay
still, and wait for this section
of wall to slowly makes its way
up. After it is up, jump up to
the next ledge.

Keep running across this next
ledge until it ends. However,
and lucky for you, there a a
chain of several floating
islands serving as stairs
reaching up to the next level.
They are all very small, so that
poses a problem. Jump on the
first large one. Then, jump a
little higher to the next one
right near you, which is
smaller. Near you is another
smaller island, then once you
are on it you need to jump to
the smallest island. Once there
you can simply jump to the next
ledge.

Now on this next ledge, you will
find a cute cuddly Bully who
wants to push you over and make
you fall down half a mile head
first into boiling lava. What a
great thought, right? Stay near
the wall and kill the Bully so
he doesn't interfere with this
next section of the volcano.
After his fiery death which
can't be heard, head along the
thin path that branched away
from the outer wall. However,
take time to see the lavafall
right next to you. Pretty nice
sight to see.

Keep running across the thin
bridge until you come to the end
of it. This is the hardest part
of the Star because of the crap
they give you for camera angles.
Ugh. Jump onto the nearby pole.
Quickly now, climb up all the
way to the top of the pole. You
should see another pole nearby.
Make sure your back is facing
that pole, then jump off the
pole towards it. Hopefully you
grabbed onto it. Now, quickly
climb pretty close to the top of
it again. Another pole should be
floating on an island nearby.
The camera won't cooperate with
you on this, so try to position
your back as best as you can to
the pole. When you think its
perfect, jump. Now, climb to the
top of the final pole and do a
Handstand. Have your face aimed
towards the Star not too far
away from you. Once you are in
the right position, jump away,
land on the platform, and grab
the Star.

=============================
Star 6-Inside the Volcano
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Another Star inside the volcano?
It figures, main part of the
level you could assume. Well, no
matter. This Star isn't that
hard anyways. The island behind
you this time around is utterly
pointless, so continue to move
forward when you start and Long
Jump across the small gap when
you come to it. Just to make
getting to the Star much easier,
don't bother going under the
archway this time, but continue
heading straight. You will end
on a small platform with a brick
block and a ! Block. Hit the !
Block and the jump onto the
Koopa Shell that falls.

Once again, hop onto the shell.
You will be invincible once
more. Once you hop onto the
Shell, start riding towards the
giant gate that blocked easy
passage from the previous Star.
Right before you reach the wall,
take a left. Jump over any
platforms that may be in your
way because..don't wanna lose
that shell. Now, eventually to
your left you will see a large
spinning platform, with a
volcano in the middle of it.
Isn't that lucky? Hop onto the
spinning platform, but avoid
getting disoriented, then try to
slide up the volcano. Jump, then
aim to fall into the middle of
it.

Once again you fall down to the
very bottom of the volcano. No
worries about lava rising again.
Last Star we went forward from
where you start in the volcano,
however, this time you need to
turn around. You should see a
few small platforms leading
around behind you. Jump on each
platform taking the Coins if you
want to until you meet the
dreaded Automatic Elevator. Jump
on it to make it start.

Ride the boring Automatic
Elevator for about 20 or so
seconds, as it climbs higher
around the volcano's interior.
Eventually, another Automatic
Elevator will come into view.
The Elevator your standing on
will stop for a brief second
before falling when right next
to the next Elevator. Ride this
next Auto Elevator around the
volcano, but you won't be
gaining as much height as you
may think. You'll eventually
come to a pole in the distance,
and the Elevator travels around
it only once. In that time, you
need to jump onto the pole and
grab it. Miss, and you will drop
right into the lava and be
forced to start the elevator
sequence again.

Once you are on this pole placed
high above lava, quickly climb
to the very top of it. Manuver
yourself until your back is
facing another pole that is a
bit higher (most likely) than
you current position. When you
have your back aimed correctly,
jump to the next pole. Climb
quickly to the top of this pole
as well. At the top you should
see a medium sized floating
island. At the top of the pole,
jump to it. You, most likely,
will overshoot the pole, so when
you are sure (I don't see how
you couldn't be) you are over
the island, do a Ground Pound to
make sure you make a safe
landing on it. Now, nearby this
island are 2 more smaller
islands serving as footsteps to
the Power Star. Grab the Power
Star.

=============================
Star 7-Flaming Silver Stars
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
You have to love catching the
Silver Stars! This is probably
the most fun new types of
challenges put into this game.
Anyways, this mission is mainly
going to test your Koopa Surfin'
abilities, so I hope you've
polished up on them, because it
makes this Star grabbing task
really simple. Otherwise, the
task will get a whole lot
harder. Start off, again, by not
taking the path behind you, but
rather heading straight along
until you reach the small gap
where a simple jump will do for
getting across. Head forward
still, and ignore going under
the archway like before.

Just past the archway is the
common platform I'm sure that
you have been to before. Nothing
new here really. Just the !
Block which happens to contain a
freshly packed sealed Koopa
Shell. Hmm, why not hit that
block? Hit the block and of
course grab the Koopa Shell that
falls out of it. Hope your
surfing is good! Face the
direction you just came from,
and take the off to the right.

As soon as you are off the right
side of the platform, start
going back straight back the way
you came, heck, even farther
than where you started. But stay
clear to the right side, yet at
the same time avoiding the walls
that will destroy the shell in
an instant. Once the walls on
the right side finally end, head
over past them. An oddly shaped
moon- like shaped platform just
barely above the lava is sitting
there with the first Silver Star
bouncing happily on top of it.
Ram your shell right into the
Silver Star to collect it.

After collecting your first
Silver Star, you are pretty much
on a direct path for the edge of
the level which will break your
shell. Quickly make a nice and
smooth U-Turn and head back the
same way you just came. Take it
easy, and watch the walls now to
the left of you. Soon enough
you'll see a drawbridge. Go
under it.

As you are heading towards the
left, make sure the drawbridge
is up before attempting to rush
under it, otherwise you'll enter
a low overhang zone, and your a
bit too tall. Push L to have the
camera swing around to behind
you to make the rest of this
description easier. As soon as
you pass under the drawbridge,
you should see a large tall
half-circle shaped structure to
your left. Head up to the top of
this strucuture. You will need
to jump though so you need to do
so. Head down the other side of
the mountain, but jump to
maintain good speed. Nearby is
another crecent shaped platform,
with your second Silver Star.

Ram your shell, as usual into
the Silver Star. That's 2 down
and 3 to go. From where you are
on the crecent platform, head
straight to the right. If there
are any platforms in your way,
head more to the left because
you have probably aimed a bit
incorrectly. Eventually, you
will see four platforms shaped
like diamonds, all in the lava.
Every few seconds nearly the
entire platform is covered by
lava, then the lava recedes out.
Because the platforms are
connected to the lava, you can
easily surf right over them and
not lose your shell.

A little ways in the distance of
these four sinking and rising
platforms is a small island in
the lava. There is no receding
tide to it, but a lone Mr. I
resides there. A circle of Coins
entangles around the Mr. I as
well, however. Another prize
lies up on this island. The
third Silver Star. Go ram into
it.

Now, you should be on a crash
course for the edge of the
level. That's not a good thing.
Quickly steer to the left, and
you should see in the distance
another half-circle shaped
platforms that you saw like
before. Head over to it and keep
jumping until you reach the top
section of the half-circle
shaped platform. Along with a
few Coins up here, your fourth
Silver Star is here too.

Ram your shell into the fourth
Silver Star. Head down the steep
slope, and then quickly steer to
the left. Another tall platform
looms in the distance, so get
near the edge of the level for
safety. Keep your shell speed
steady as you make your way
across to the other side of the
world. Eventually you will
finally see another crecent
shaped platform. Your final
Silver Star is here.

The Power Star will appear on a
platform you have been to many
times before. From your current
location, start heading to the
left to avoid hitting some
invisible walls. Keep going
until you go past the old
crecent shaped island.
Eventually you will come to the
island with the Red ? Block and
the Star Sphere for your taking.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
===========================
You can easily get 100 Coins
before even setting one foot
inside the volcano, so I won't
bother covering the volcano
section. However, 50 free and
easy Coins can only be accessed
by Wario so starting out as him
is highly recommended (And
needed for the job).

As soon as you start, begin
running forward as usual. Your
gonna have to Long Jump across
the small gap between platforms
unless you want Wario's ass to
be extra crispy. Continue
heading forwards, going past the
small archway, onto the platform
with the old ! Block, and a
Brick Black Block.

Firstly, we want to break open
the Black Brick. 3 Coins will
pop out so grab them unless they
are in the lava. The Block
proved to be hiding something.
It's a Blue Coin Switch. Don't
be crazy and activate it now
though. First, Jump up and hit
the ! Block for the famous Koopa
Shell to fall down. Now, go
crazy and Ground Pound the Blue
Coin Switch. Hop on the Shell
quickly as there isn't much
time.

Ride the shell away from the
nearby sign, into the lava. You
should see a Blue Coin as soon
as you enter the lava. Hurry
along now at full speed. The
Blue Coins keep going and going
and going. They will take a
tight turn through the little
gap near where you started. The
Blue Coin trail keeps going
still! Time of course is running
out. The Blue Coins head under
the drawbridge, so take you
chances and rush it. Then, after
that the final Blue Coin is
midway up the large half-circle
nearby. That's already 50
freaking Coin in only a minute
practically! Head back to where
you got the Koopa Shell and
press R.

Now you are back quite roughly
where you started. Time for an
easy 50 Coin hunt, don't you
think? Head back near the
starting position from where you
are right now, then take a right
and go under the archway. There
are 3 Coins just lying on the
ground. Head up the stairs, and
a Bully will be waiting for you.
Head to the left from where he
used to be, and cross the
drawbridge quickly while its
down. After that a Mr. I will be
on the grating area. Run around
him a few times to make him die,
then grab the Blue Coin that
appears nearby.

Keep heading towards the left.
The platform gets a bit wider,
then you can see a tilting
platform in the lava, with a few
Coins in it. Grab the Coins once
you jump on it. Continue
forwards along the path until
you reach the 15-Piece Puzzle.
There are 8 Red Coins lying in
plain view on top of the puzzle.
Carefully grab them without
falling into the lava thanks to
the moving pieces. Also, many
more Coins are here too. You may
find that after collecting a Red
Coin or 2 many Yellow Coins will
appear on top of the puzzle top.
Quickly grab all of them before
they dissappear, which happens
in only a few seconds.

After you have collected all of
the 8 Red Coins on the puzzle,
the Star will appear for it, but
since you already have that Star
don't bother retrieving it. Keep
going forward along the path and
up the next ramp where you will
find 2 Bullies and a few Coins
on the ground. Kill the Bullies
before getting pushed into the
lava too much, then collect the
Coins they give. Then, grab all
of the Coins on the ground, then
walk forward and jump onto the
next platform.

On this next platform there are
a few Coins lying on it,
however, there are two flame
lines on both sides of the
spinning platform, and they move
pretty fast. Quickly run around
the platform and collect the 4
Coins. Then jump to the right
onto a few wooden blocks. Jump
onto the next platform that is
nearby.

There are a few Coins that are
lying on this platform. Grab
them all of them, of course.
Follow the tilting platform,
constantly dipping in lava until
you see another platform. Jump
up ontop of it. Big Bully is on
this platform from way before,
but you aren't here to kill him
or anything. A few Coins lie on
this platform, so quickly grab
all of them before it is too
late. Nearby this platform is a
small mesh platform in the lava.
Jump onto it, and it will take
you to another platform lying
not that far away. A circle of 8
Coins are on this platform as
well, so grab them. 3 Bullies
reside here too, kill them for
their Coins. Big Bully will
appear again, but don't bother
fighting.

Nearby this platform are a
series of 4 platforms in the
lava, all in sync with eachother
sinking and rising back out of
the lava. You can easily jump to
them from where you are. Only do
so though when they are nearly
fully out of the lava. That way
you have a better chance of
landing on them. At the peak of
each platform is another Coin.
Grab all 4 of them. Another
long, twisty platform should be
nearby also. There are a few
Coins on this path as well. Grab
them all. Nearby, is where the
Koopa Shell ! Block is. Head
over following the easy to see
path and grab the Shell. Head
along forward, going to the
right when the gate wall ends,
then reach the edge of the
level, then make a left. A Mr. I
on a small island should easily
be spotted. There are a few
Coins around him, grab them.
Then on your shell, spin around
him a few times until he spins
around in defeat as usual. Grab
the Blue Coin that follow Mr.
I's death.

By now, if you don't have over
120 Coins you must have missed
something major. Heck, I got 180
Coins from all of the above
descriptions, so if you haven't
even crossed the 100 Coin
barrier yet, exit the level and
try again, unless you skipped
the Blue Coin Switch part in
which case a lot of money can
easily be made there. Also, if
you are short a few Coins, head
into the volcano in the middle
of the level. There is around
20-25 Coins lying around the
Volcano so I suppose its up to
you to find them, of course they
are easily on a direct path from
the start of the volcano so you
can't possible miss them. This
was one of the easier Collect
100 Coins challenges, but there
are much harder ones.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Nothing else new has happened
unless you've already got 30
Stars in which case you can head
for the Large Star Door in the
basement. In any case, you
should head to World 8, Shifting
Sands Land. From the Lethal Lava
Land painting, take a left and
follow the path to a dead end.
Jump into the dead end to enter
the world.

--------------------------------
     ~V J.Course 8:Shifting Sand
--------------------------------
You take a break from all of the
hot lava to find a hot desert.
Great. Not just a desert, a
desert that wants to kill you,
and fast. Quicksand is
everywhere, death is everywhere,
sand tornadoes are everywhere,
and the pinnacle of your time
will involve the great pyramid
in the middle, or traversing the
maze of Tox Box's, which are
constantly smashing around their
territory.

================================
Star 1-In the Talons of the Big
Bird Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Oh boy. Klepto the Vulture has
stolen a Power Star. Whatever
will we do to the bastard? Let's
hit him. That'll work well.
Anyways, Klepto has stolen a
Star and you need to retrieve
it. You will start off on a
small raised platform, so just
walk off into the sand. Its not
quicksand, which is a different
color, so don't worry. Keep
running forward until you see
what appears to be a whirlpool
of sand. This is a sand pit. You
can enter it, but it sucks you
towards the middle so you need
to keep running out. If you get
too close to the center, your
pulled under the sand and you
die. How lucky. From the sand
pit, head left, and under the
little cabana. Soon up ahead you
will come to what appears to be
a large maze with large boxes on
it.

This here is the Tox Box Maze.
Tox Box's are big boxes you see
with different expressions on
them. They have a hollow
interior though. They move
around in the maze. Anyways, up
ahead should be the first Tox
Box. Wait on the second closest
square to the sand. The hollow
inside will protect you. After
the Tox Box moves back, keep
running forward until the path
splits. Take the left path, and
follow it around. Jump to
another portion of the maze if a
Tox Box is coming after you,
then jump back when safe. Keep
avoiding the only three Tox
Box's in the maze until you
reach the end of the maze.
However, you need to be careful
of something. There is a special
type of sand below the Tox Box
Maze. It is "Insta-Kill
Quicksand". If you go in it, you
instantly die. Heh, be careful!

Soon enough you will be out of
the Tox Box Maze, and in a small
oasis. Head to your left. There
should be a relatively tall red
pillar near you. Walk up the
side of it (Yes, you can do that
easily) to the very top and just
wait there until you see Klepto
the Vulture starting to fly
towards you. Klepto enjoys only
circling around the 4 pillars
that are around the pyramid, and
this is the easiest one to be
at. Wait there until Klepto
starts to fly around this
pillar. While he is flying
around you should notice a Power
Star in his clutches. When he is
over your head, or at the least
prettty close to you, jump up
and into him. He will be
shocked, and drops the Star
nearby. Grab the Star to clear
the level.

===============================
Star 2-Shining Atop the Pyramid
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===============================
There are 2 different paths for
completing this challenge. The
shortcut way with Mario, or the
normal way that's still not that
difficult. Your choice as to
which one you want to do. The
Star is, like the title says,
shining atop the giant Pyramid.
Time to grab the Star! Anyways,
start out as usual from start
and keep heading forward until
you reach the large sand pit.
Don't go into it you fool. Turn
to the left towards the little
roofed area. Stay barely to the
left of the roof and do a
running Triple Jump with Mario.
In the middle of your Triple
Jump, hold right so you land on
the roof. It may take a few
tries but you should be able to
do it. On top of this roof is
the Blue Star Marker, a ! Block
with a Koopa Shell inside, and a
Red ? Block. I think its obvious
now.

Walk over to the ? Red Block and
hit it to make the Wings fall
down. Grab them, then aim for
the Pyramid. Do a high flying
Triple Jump to start soaring
into the skies. Start flying for
the top og the pyramid, but not
the very top. Just above the
middle on the pyramid's left
side lies the Star at the very
top or it. It isn't hard to get
so fly right into it to win and
earn the Star.

However, some of you fancy a
challenge. Head forward normally
to the Tox Box Maze of Doom.
Anyways, up ahead should be the
first Tox Box. Wait on the
second closest square to the
sand. The hollow inside will
protect you. After the Tox Box
moves back, keep running forward
until the path splits. Take the
left path, and follow it around.
Jump to another portion of the
maze if a Tox Box is coming
after you, then jump back when
safe. Keep avoiding the only
three Tox Box's in the maze
until you're at the end of the
maze. Don't fall into the
quicksand as you navigate the
maze.

After getting out of the maze
like before, your in the oasis
area of the level. Head past the
2 pillars on the ground to the
left. You have no business with
them. Keep heading forward now
until you reach a sand pit. Get
close to it and a tornado will
form. Cool. Jump into the
tornado to lift off the ground
for a second, and start twirling
down. Land on the base of the
pyramid. Head past the entrance
of the pyramid and to the edge
where you should see a bit
higher ledge. Jump up to it.
Keep following the series of
ledges, going progressively
higher around the pyramid.
Eventually you will start to see
some Fly Guy's. Avoid them.
It'll get thinner towards the
top, but that's just a bit
closer to the Star. Once at the
top the Star awaits so grab it.

================================
Star 3-Inside the Ancient
Pyramid Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
It's about high time you entered
the forbidden pyramid, right?
Head straight until you reach
the long seen sand pit, and head
over to the left towards what
you have been to every single
Star-The Tox Box Maze of death.
Wait on the second closest
square to the sand. The hollow
inside will protect you. After
the Tox Box moves back, keep
running forward until the path
splits. Take the left path, and
follow it around. Jump to
another portion of the maze if a
Tox Box is coming after you,
then jump back when safe. Keep
avoiding the only 3 Tox Box's in
the maze until you reach the end
of the maze. Again, don't try
anything too stupid and end up
falling into the quicksand
below. That will kill you
instantly, remember? Don't try
it.

On the other side of the maze
now, the commonly found oasis.
Head left until you see another
sand pit. Get near it and a
tornado will form. Jump into it
and while spinning in the air,
move over to the base of the
pyramid. Once there, look for
the entrance that's easily
found, then slide down inside to
enter it.

Ah, take a good look at your new
surroundings. Pretty odd. Very
big and spacious pyramid
compared to being outside. Start
heading forwards, then when the
wall ends take a right. Keep
following the path until you
reach a group of 3 Goombas. They
pose no threat to you unless you
need some health, so otherwise
just ignore them. Head to the
left now and keep going. You'll
be hearing the sounds of a
pounding Thwomp. Stop once you
see an opening on the floor
above you. A Mummified Thwomp is
pounding up and down over and
over again. While he is pounding
the ground, jump up on top of
him, then ride him to the second
floor.

Before the Thwomp crashes you
into the wall, jump off to the
right. You will come upon
another group of three Goombas.
If you need the health, go ahead
and murder them. If not, go
ahead and quickly climb the pole
that rests near them.

Head to the right after jumping
off the pole on the third floor.
Keep heading towards the right
until you see a mesh net
attached to some nearby poles.
Below the mesh net is a slope
that dumps you out nearby onto a
trail of quicksand, or so it
appears to be. It's (what I
call) the sand river. Just a
long river of sand that'll pull
you down to waist level (You
won't go further than that) and
the sand move towards the
sandfall at the end. It dumps
out at the very bottom of the
pyramid. Don't enter the Sand
River unless you can quickly
jump out. Jump up to the mesh
overhand and climb to the other
side.

There are some stairs infront of
you now in a zigzag formation,
and with a few Coins on them
too. Climb them to the top onto
the fourth floor. Head to the
left (Your only possible
direction) and turn the camera
behind you. You will see a
Thwomp Roller. This special one
of a kind Thwomp (The mummified
ones though) will roll back and
forth on your pathway. Keep
running on the pathway until you
see a little hole in the wall.
Hide there until the Thwomp
Roller passes you, then run out
of the hole and continue on your
normal path past him.

As you pass the next corner,
heading to the right in the
pyramid, you will see a couple
of platforms that are rising up
and down in a continuous motion.
Jump onto the first one, then at
the peak of the raise jump onto
the middle platform (There's no
holes, but there are two
platforms, and if you didn't
make it your just wasting some
time). Then when the next
platform is low enough, jump on
it and ride it to the top of the
peak. At the top, jump off to
the fifth floor.

Now you are on the fifth floor.
Very close now. Head along the
pathway to the right until you
see two Amps come out of
nowhere. They will start to spin
around as usual, so dodge or
jump over their paths to avoid
being shocked. Keep going
forward to the next corner,
where the pathway then becomes
very narrow. If you don't wanna
fall a long way, sidestep while
hugging the wall. If your
feeling confident and are a
steady walker, walk there. Climb
up the nearby pole after that.

Now you are on the sixth and
final floor. Just one more enemy
keeps you from getting the Star.
Keep heading along until the
pathway ends, then look to the
right to find another walkway
continuing. There are no walls
on this walkway because a
Mummified Thwomp is jumping up
and down over it. If the Thwomp
is traveling towards you, wait
for it and when he stops, jump
ontop of his head and ride him
to the other side. If he is
going away from you, head
towards the middle of the
walkway and wait for the Thwomp
to turn around, and then run
under him while he is jumping.
Jump up the small ledge on the
other side. Head up the nearby
hill, collecting the Coins to
replenish your unnecessary
health at this point. Double
Jump to the next ledge and grab
the Star on it.

================================
Star 4-Standing Tall on the Four
Pillars Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
================================
Mario is going have a fun job in
this level, and the Wing Cap is
going to be his main method of
transportation. He's the best
and makes this Star the easiest.
This Star is impossible with
Yoshi so don't bother trying.
Anyways, as Mario, head forward
as usual until you reach the
sand pit. Take the left like
before, and Triple Jump onto the
top of the pavillion.

Now that you are ontop of the
pavillion, head over to the Red
? Block. Break it to reveal the
Wings. Grab them, of course.
Face a tall Red Pillar in the
distance all surrounded by
quicksand (The one closest to
you). Triple Jump and start
flying towards it. Nearby is a
sand pit that will spring a
tornado when you get near it.
Ignore that. Ground Pound when
your shadow from flying is on
the Pillar. Turn to the right,
and face another nearby pillar.
Do a Triple Jump and start
flying torwards it. Be careful
with this one. You need to
Ground Pound it exactly. Insta-
Kill Quicksand is all around the
pillar so don't miss the pillar.
Pound it, then face towards the
left. Another Pillar is quite a
distance away. Do a high Triple
Jump and start flying towards
it. Be careful of Klepto the
Vulture after landing on this
pillar. He will lunge for you
and try to steal your hat, which
is bad. From this Pillar, face
to the left and Triple Jump to
start flying towards the last
Pillar. Once you land on it, you
should hear the familar sound
signaling something is
happening. Face the top of the
pyramid. As you can see, the top
part is rising off the ground,
spinning, then explodes. Fly to
the top of the pyramid, then
fall into the revealed hole.

You will be at the top of the
pyramid, but inside the pyramid
that is. You should see the old
previous Star there (A shortcut
eh? You could have used this
method before, but the other is
more fun). You will be in a
large, caged elevator that will
slowly make its way down. Once
it reaches the bottom of its
path is will stop, and a hole in
the wall is seen. This is
extremly hard, nearly impossible
to reach without the elevator. I
think Luigi can backflip off an
above platform and land here,
but I've never tested it myself.
Anyways, a brick block is
blocking your way so easily
punch it to bits. A thin
passageway (Wall are on both
sides, don't worry) is revealed.
Walk down it and reach the
bottom of it.

You will fall into a small, but
rather large room. The problem
is that most of the room is just
emptiness. Bottomless pit. Your
on a small platform connected to
the wall. Exciting. Infront of
you appears to be some vases,
some Egyption couch, and a
coffin. This is probably some
weird tomb I suppose. Jump ontop
of what appears to be "The
Couch" and it will spring up
(Even though I was expecting
this I was still startled) and
will form two hands that were
evidently fists before. The
hands are named Eyerok. They are
two hands with eyes in the palms
of them, ancient spirits they
are. They are angered at you for
disturbing them, and they are
gonna crush you! Prepare to
fight!

At the start of the battle both
hands will be rised fists form
and starts to pound the ground.
Really hard and shaking it.
Focus on the left hand first.
After its fist shakes, the left
hand will open for a brief
moment, revealing its eye.
Quickly run to it and Punch it.
The Hand will fall down, but
quickly get back up. The right
Hand now will have opened its
eye up to you, so quickly run
over to him and Punch him in the
eye. After this he will repeat
the process of falling down then
getting right back up. Not close
to being over yet.

After that Punch, the left hand,
again, will have its eye
revealed once more. Quickly run
over again and Punch it to have
him fall down then get back
up...see where this is going?
The right hand again by now has
opened up once more so run over
and punch it. Now that you have
two Punches on each of them,
both hands start to go crazy.
They will wildly Pound the
ground with their fists and go
into fist mode and slide across
the platform randomly. Its gets
pretty crazy. Eventually one of
the hands will open up, so Punch
it one more time and he will
explode. Then simply wait for
the other hand to open up, then
Punch it to make him die too.
They will give up the Star,
which will lie on top of the
coffin.

================================
Star 5-Tox Box Switch Star
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed, then
Mario/Luigi/Yoshi
================================
To have access to this Switch
Star, Wario will be needed first
off. Mario/Luigi/Yoshi are
recommended for their speed and
Jumping powers to reach the
actual Star quickly. If you
don't enter as Wario, or Yoshi
in a Wario Cap, then a Wario Cap
is in the level somewhere (Tox
Box Switch Star is available no
matter which Star you choose)
and varies from Star to Star
selection. From where you start
head forward, passing the Fly
Guy and the Bob-omb until you
reach the Sand Pit. As usual,
head left. Keep going until you
reach the Tox Box Maze.

Wait for the first Tox Box to
make its way right near where
you are standing (Next to the
first tile of the Tox Box Maze).
When it comes, follow the Tox
Box until you reach the split in
the road. The Tox Box will go
right, then stop. That's the way
you need to go as well. Wait for
the Tox Box to head to the left,
then as Wario head to the right.
You will soon reach a dead end.
From here you only go 2 options.
Them are 1:Either Jump and
hopefully grab onto the platform
in the middle of the quicksand
or 2:Long Jump to the platform
in the quicksand, but risk
getting undershot or
overshooting and dying. Either
way you choose death as an easy
to take option, so do whichever
you are most comfortable with.
Once you have grabbed onto/Long
Jumped to the platform in the
quicksand, make a Long Jump to
the nearby, larger platform, and
don't miss it!

Once on the large platform, head
to the left. Don't worry, this
is a subcluded island in the
quicksand, and no Tox Boxes
invade it. You will soon come up
to a Black Brick Block in the
middle of the pathway. As Wario,
you easily have enough power in
your guns to blast away the
block. The now not there anymore
Black Brick has revealed a Star
Switch right there! If you want
to beat this Star as Wario, you
can, if not follow this step in
the next paragraph.

Simply head back the way you
came from the Tox Box maze, and
make your way back to the
pavillion. Here, two Goombas
have a Mario and Luigi Caps. You
can lose your to turn back into
Yoshi if you were Yoshi to begin
with. Grab/lose whatever Cap you
want, then head back to the
Switch on the island in the Tox
Box Maze.

Back on the Switch Island, with
your character you want to be
as, activate the Star Switch!
You'll find out the Star Sphere
in near the little pond in the
oasis, far on the other side of
the Tox Box Maze. This is
trouble. There is some time,
only a portion can be used for
sitting around, so get moving!
Long Jump to the platform
infront of you as long as no Tox
Boxes are near that spot. The
spot ahead is way to long for a
simple Long Jump to reach, so
you need to take the normal
path. When it splits, keep
heading forwards and not to the
left. Tox Boxes are nearby, so
stop for safety if you need to.
Keep going until you reach a
series of mini gaps. Depending
on if you are Wario or not, Long
Jump across each one, otherwise
a simple Jump will do. Get
across the final platform and
your outta the Tox Box Maze.
Head forward and swing around
the pond in the oasis. The Star
Sphere is behind the pond, so
break the dome for it.

BranBranMB@aol.com writes:Its
easy to grab the Star with
plenty of time. Simply walk to
the opposite end of the platform
the Switch Star is on, and you
will get warped to the oasis
with the Star Sphere.

=============================
Star 6-Pyramid Puzzle
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
You need to head inside the
pyramid once again for another
Star! Dandy right? Heh. I ain't
not gonna repeat the very long
explaination on how to reach the
pyramid, and I sure won't repeat
how to actually get to the top.
The actual way to get the Star
is 10 paragraphs below this one.
The following 9 are just how to
get to the top of the pyramid.

Head straight until you reach
the long seen sand pit, and head
over to the left towards what
you have been to every single
Star-The Tox Box Maze. Wait on
the second closest square to the
sand. The hollow inside will
protect you. After the Tox Box
moves back, keep running forward
until the path splits. Take the
left path, and follow it around.
Jump to another portion of the
maze if a Tox Box is coming
after you, then jump back when
safe. Keep avoiding the only
three Tox Box's in the maze
until you reach the end of the
maze. As per usual, you most
certainly want to avoid the
quicksand that is churning below
the maze pathway. If you fall
into it, you will die and will
have to restart this Star.

On the other side of the maze
now, the commonly found oasis.
Head left until you see another
sand pit. Get near it and a
tornado will form. Jump into it
and while spinning in the air,
move over to the base of the
pyramid. Once there, look for
the entrance that's easily
found, then slide down inside to
enter it.

Start heading forwards, then
when the wall ends take a right.
Keep following the path until
you reach a group of 3 Goombas.
They pose no threat to you
unless you need health, so just
ignore them. Head to the left
now and keep going. You'll be
hearing the sounds of a pounding
Thwomp. Stop once you see an
opening on the floor above you.
A Mummified Thwomp is pounding
up and down over and over again.
While he is pounding the ground,
jump up on top of him, then ride
him to the second floor.

Before the Thwomp crashes you
into the wall, jump off to the
right. You will come upon
another group of three Goombas.
If you need the health, go ahead
and murder them. If not, go
ahead and quickly climb the pole
that rests near them.

Head to the right after jumping
off the pole on the third floor.
Keep heading towards the right
until you see a mesh net
attached to some nearby poles.
Below the mesh net is a slope
that dumps you out nearby onto a
trail of quicksand. Don't fall
into the river of sand. If you
happen to fall into it, quickly
jump out of it. If you don't do
so in time, then you will likely
fall off the edge back to the
bottom of the pyramid. Jump up
to the mesh overhand and climb
to the other side.

There are some stairs infront of
you now in a zigzag formation,
and with a few Coins on them
too. Climb them to the top onto
the fourth floor. Head to the
left (Your only possible
direction) and turn the camera
behind you. You will see a
Thwomp Roller. This special one
of a kind Thwomp (The mummified
ones though) will roll back and
forth on your pathway. Keep
running on the pathway until you
see a little hole in the wall.
Hide there until the Thwomp
Roller passes you, then run out
of the hole and continue on your
normal path past him.

As you pass the next corner,
heading to the right in the
pyramid, you will see a couple
of platforms that are rising up
and down in a continuous motion.
Jump onto the first one, then at
the peak of the raise jump onto
the middle platform (There's no
holes, but there are two
platforms, and if you didn't
make it your just wasting some
time). Then when the next
platform is low enough, jump on
it and ride it to the top of the
peak. At the top, jump off to
the fifth floor.

Now we are on the fifth floor.
Very close now. Head along the
pathway to the right until you
see 2 Amps come out of nowhere.
They will start to spin around
as usual, so dodge of jump over
their paths to avoid being
shocked. Keep going forward to
the next corner, where the
pathway then becomes very
narrow. If you don't wanna fall
a long way, sidestep while
hugging the wall. If your
feeling confident and are a
steady walker, walk there. Climb
up the nearby pole after that.

Now you are on the sixth and
final floor. Another obstacle
blocks the way up ahead. Keep
heading along until the pathway
ends, then look to the right to
find another walkway continuing.
There are no walls on this
walkway because a Mummified
Thwomp is jumping up and down
over it. If the Thwomp is
traveling towards you, wait for
it and when he stops, jump ontop
of his head and ride him to the
other side. If he is going away
from you, head towards the
middle of the walkway and wait
for the Thwomp to turn around,
and then run under him while he
is jumping. Jump up the small
ledge on the other side. Head up
the nearby hill, collecting the
Coins to replenish your health
if you need to at this point.

Right near the very top is your
first bouncing Silver Star. Grab
it, of course! The rest of the
Silver Stars aren't too hard to
reach from here. Keep walking
forward until you see a slight
hole in the wall. Face the
camera as far away from it. Near
the beginning sandfall. The
Silver Star was here, not
anymore, fall down the gap.

You want to actually stay
against the wall though. Once
you fall you should have fallen
onto a platform with another
Silver Star. If you are having
trouble actually reaching this
Star, stand above the gap
aforementioned, and slowly walk
towards it, then grab the ledge.
Lightly tilt away from it, and
you'll fall to this platform.

The third Silver Star is just as
close as the second one was. Go
into shoulder camera view and
look left of the sandfall. There
is another platform across it
with a hopping merrily Silver
Star. Turn the camera as far
away as possible from the
Sandfall and jump across it.
When your character is across
the sandfall, do a Ground Pound
to hopefully land on the
platform, to claim the third
Silver Star. If you missed, I'll
just say its a long way back up
to the top of the pyramid.

Now you are on a platform near
the Sandfall, after getting your
third Silver Star. Fall down
behind the Sandfall to be on the
large red platform, that was the
hole to the home of Eyerok.
Nearby is where the sandfall is
dumping into-the sand river.
This river ends at another
sandfall to fall to the bottom
of the level. Get onto the ledge
of the sand river, then jump
into it.

Now your on the sand river. Just
sit back and enjoy the ride. You
will start to sink into the
quicksand, but you'll stop at
waist level because the river
isn't that deep. Eventually the
river will cut a corner, and you
will plow into your fourth
Silver Star. The River has
widened at this point, so just
wait as it keeps on going. You
will eventually come into
contact with your fifth and
final Silver Star. Awesome. The
Star is at the end of the sand
river? Right behind the
sandfall! Now as you cut this
final turn the sand starts to
pick up speed. Your going to
plow over the sandfall, if only
the Star Sphere wasn't in the
way of that. No worries at all.
You can easily grab the Star.

================================
Star 7-Free Flying for Red Coins
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Mario needed
================================
The Star title should tip off
you will be needing Mario for
this challenge. Several red
coins are looming high in the
skies, and only the Wing Cap
enables you to reach them. There
is no need to enter the pyramid,
fortunately, as no red coins
were put in there. Don't bother
entering. From where you start,
head backwards along the path.
The left of you is insta-kill
quicksand on the edge of the
level so don't go near it. Keep
going as the path becomes
narrower. You will eventually
come to the first Red Coin at
the very edge of the level,
thinly. Grab the Coin, head back
to where you started.

Keep going, past the enemies
until you reach the common sand
pit. No worries, head left, and
do a Triple Jump to get ontop of
the pavillion. Before you do
however, go under the pavillion
roof and punch open a brick for
the second Red Coin. From the
roof, Triple Jump to get into
the skies, and aim for the
closest red pillar.

As you are flying, you may be
able to see some Red Coins in
the disatance. There are a total
of 4 Red Coin that are
positioned around the great
pyramid. Ground Pound to land on
the red pillar once you reach
it. Aim to the left a little and
do a very high Triple Jump. You
will start flying pretty darn
highly. The Red Coin should be
right near where you took off,
but if you are a little too
high, start aiming lower to grab
the Red Coin. After you fly into
the third Red Coin, aim for
another pillar that's a bit of a
ways away from where you are
now, but your on a direct route
to it. Right near this next red
pillar is another Red Coin. If
you are too low, Ground Pound to
land ontop of the nearby red
pillar, face the Red Coin, then
do a high Triple Jump to reach
it. You should be able to do it
perfectly. After earning that
Red Coin, head right (Or left if
you had to stop on the pillar)
to start flying towards another
nearby pillar. When close, land
on it, then face the Red Coin
lying nearby above it. Do a high
and tall Triple Jump to get
enough height to earn the fifth
Red Coin. Head towards the final
pillar. Hurry up as the Wing Cap
power probably is running out,
and you don't want to die now.
Grab the Red Coin if you are
high enough, or land on the
pillar to get enough height.
Turn back and head for the oasis
(The area with the small pond).
If you are running out of Wing
Cap power (Wings are flashing),
you have two seconds or so to
get to land safely, so quickly
dive towards the Tox Box Maze
and land anywhere. From there,
make your way past the Tox Boxes
towards the oasis.

Now you have 6 Red Coins, and
should be in the oasis in the
desert. Hop inside the small
pond. Not for a relaxing dip,
though-the seventh Red Coin
resides in that pool of water.
Now, head back to the Tox Box
Maze. Search around until you
come to the entrance area again.
Don't head down the path to
where the maze starts, but
continue forwards, and jump the
nearby gaps like you did when
doing the Switch Star in the
Maze. Nearby the Black Brick
Block is your final Red Coin. If
you have any trouble getting to
this point, there is a ? Red
Block at the pyramids base, so
use it to find the Red Coin from
high above, then swoop down and
Ground Pound to earn the final
Coin safely.

Now that you have gathered up
all 8 Red Coins, all that is
left to do is to rightfully
claim your Star. The Star
appears way back on the
pavillion rooftop. Nice. Head
back through the entrance way of
the Tox Box Maze to go back to
near where you started. Triple
Jump onto the rooftop (Or fly
there) to claim the Star.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
Great. You have the annoying and
daunting task of once again
collecting all 100 Coins, any we
can find to retrieve this Power
Star. Sadly, Shifting Sand Land
doesn't contain a ton of Coins
like some levels do. Around
140-150 is about how many Coins
this place has, assuming you
grab everything. It isn't too
hard, but if you don't milk the
main area out first by the time
you enter the pyramid, you are
screwed. You can't leave the
pyramid when you enter, so make
sure you are certain you have
nowhere left to check!

Start off by running behind you,
and keep going as the path gets
much thinner and you will soon
and eventually come to a Red
Coin. 98 Coins down! Head back
to the start.

Infront of you should be the
bouncning "Crazy" Box. Grab it,
and hold the opposite direction
your bouncing in. This will
prevent you from bouncing
straight into quicksand, death,
sand pit, or something else that
is bad. Collect the 5 Coins that
pop out after the third bounce.
Nearby (Hopefully if you are
still alive) are two Bob-ombs,
and a Fly Guy. Kill everything
for a total of 5 more Coins.
Head to the pavillion, but you
have no business on the roof so
don't bother. Nearby is a Pokey.
Eat his body (Or his head to
make things easier, Punching is
fine too) until his head is
dead/swallowed. You will recieve
a Blue Coin after doing so. Head
to the pavillion and kill the 2
Goombas that are acting stupid
in it. 2 more Coins. Nearby are
some bricks and boxes. Destroy
bricks with Punches for a few
Coins from each one, and throw
the boxes at a wall to break
them for some more Coins. Head
forward, out of the pavillion.

Another Pokey will slowly be
making his way around in the hot
sand. Gobble up/Punch his head
off to recieve another Blue
Coin. By now you should have at
least 20 Coins. Head into the
Tox Box Maze. Avoid the giant
Tox Boxes and look everywhere in
the Maze. There is a Red Coin
near where the entrance is, you
can break the Black Brick if you
want to for a few Coins. Some
Coins are also just placed on
the path in the Tox Box Maze.
After draining out all of the
cash flow inside the Maze
(Wonder if they are happy about
that...), exit the maze to the
oasis.

Jump into the small pool to the
right of the exit from the Tox
Box Maze. Get the Red Coin
there. Head to the left now and
go past the pillar to find 5
Coin lying on the ground. Nearby
is a Pokey, so kill off his head
to make him give up another Blue
Coin. Nearby is another Crazy
Box, but be careful of where it
goes! Head to the base of the
pyramid. As Mario, you can grab
the Wing Cap from the ? Red
Block, and collect the floating
Red Coins around the pyramid.
That isn't neccessary, but makes
the job easier. Or, you can go
right into the pyramid now.

Before heading to the pyramid,
have at least 35 Coins, so its
easily possible to reach 100
Coins. Head along the pathway
until the left wall ends, then
follow the left wall around the
corner to find a Blue Coin
Switch. Head up ontop of the
Blue Coin Switch and Ground
Pound it to have it activated. 4
Blue Coins will appear, but they
aren't easily found. They are
behind you leading down into the
quicksand. They stack ontop of
each other, so you collect all 4
in about a second.

Now that you got all the
possible Blue Coins, head to the
route to the right. You will
eventually come to a trio of
Goombas. Kill them all to hoard
their Coins. Continue along the
path to the left. Don't take the
shortcut up the Mummified
Thwomp, instead pass under him
and continue along the path
killing any Goombas you find.

You will eventually come around
a corner. Turn to the left and
their are some gaps with
quicksand between them in the
pathway. On each of the non-pit
segments is 1 Yellow Coin. Jump
across them because jumping out
of the quicksand is annoying.
Continue to the other side where
you will find some stairs. Go up
them.

Once you are safely on the
second floor, make your way to
the right until you find an Amp
circling around under wire mesh
area. On the net (Or should I
say, below it) are a circle of 8
Coins. Grab them all. Once you
have them all climb back onto
solid land. Continue along the
pathway to the right, jump over
the gap when the Thwomp is down,
and kill the Goombas for Coins.
Head up the pole.

Now you are on the third floor.
Nearby the pole is another wire
net you have to cross to the
other side. There are 5 Coins
you can easily collect when
climbing the net, so do get
them. There are a few stairs
after the net, 4 to be exact. On
each one is another Yellow Coin.
Grab them all, and jump to the
fourth floor.

Now that you are on the fourth
floor, jump over, or hide in the
wall until the Mummified Rolling
Thwomp has passes you. Continue
along, passing the corner until
you reach a series of small
platforms rising up and down.
There are a few Coins above each
platform. Collect them all, then
jump to the sixth floor.

Now that you are on the sixth
and final floor, make your way
forward until the pathway ends,
but a small bridge lies to the
left. Another Mummified Thwomp
is jumping up and down back and
forth on this bridge. When you
get the chance run under him and
jump up the small ledge. To the
right is a small hill with about
10 Coins on it, then another 5
Coins in the air nearby. That's
it. No more Coins can be found
in the pyramid. If you haven't
gotten the 100 Coin Star yet,
start the level over and try to
get some more Coins from outside
first.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
We have enough Stars to enter
the Big Star Door in the
basement now, so we can enter
Bowser in the Fire Sea. To
actually get to that, we must
complete the first Star in World
9. Head to the big star door
(Can't miss it really) and enter
it. A blue bubbly wall with
ripples in it will be there.
Jump in for Dire Dire Docks.

--------------------------------
 ~V K.Course 9:Dire Dire Docks~
--------------------------------
Ah, Dire Dire Docks, a great but
annoying course indeed. Why so?
It's a complete water level.
It's much like Jolly Rodge Bay,
but there are far more lethal
things lurking in the water in
this course. Because your
spending so much time underwater
it is critical you keep getting
Coins to replenish your air
meter. Fortunately, there are
tons of coins underwater so even
long excursions won't be to much
trouble.

=============================
Star 1-Board Bowser's Sub
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
I need help on this one. How did
Bowser fit a large submarine in
a tiny world? Man that's weird.
This is an easy Power Star if
you know how to swim fast and
avoid underwater hazards. Once
you start you will be dropped
into the water. Start swimming
downwards quickly. Eventually
you will see some enemies
swimming around and a whirlpool
at the bottom center of this
area. Don't go anywhere near the
suction. It continues to pull
you closer no matter where you
are, so keep swimming away from
it. Insta-death if you get too
close because you'll be sucked
under. Look around on the ocean
floor for a hole in the wall
(Look at the Touch Screen map if
you need to). Start swimming
inside it. Resurface at a little
hole area for air.

Once your air is back head back
underwater and keep following
the arrows on the walls.
Eventually the hole ends and you
will be in the second area of
Dire Dire Docks. Here is where
Bowser's Submarine lies. Keep
swimming forward until you reach
land then jump out of the water.
Depending on where you are, look
around for a ! Switch. Activate
it when you do. Nearby will be a
block staircase leading up
towards the submarine. Go up
them, board the submarine and
claim the nearby Star.

=============================
Star 2-Chests in the Current
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
At the bottom floor from the
previous Star you may have
noticed some chests just sitting
there, unaffected by the
current. In this Star you will
reveal the secret of those
chests. As you start off as
usual, start swimming downwards
until you reach the whirlpool.
Head either direction from it
and keep swimming downwards to
the sea floor. There are 3
chests in this local area. 1
infront of the whirlpool with
another tangled around some
seaweed, with the last near a
clam. On the ocean floor, swim
around the base of the raised
area near the whirlpool until
you find a clam. Near it is a
chest. Get close to if so it
opens. An air bubble will pop
out.

Once the first chest has been
opened, get the air bubble to
completely replenish your air
supply. Keep swimming around the
edge of the whirlpool's base
area until you reach a small
section with some seaweed. It is
here a second chest lies. Get
close to it for it to open, then
grab the air bubble that comes
out.

After getting your health back
you may notice that without
swimming your getting sucked
from the whirlpool. The suction
is bad. Swim to the left now
letting the suction do the work
so you don't risk getting sucked
into the whirlpool and dying.
Try to avoid that. Nearby the
whirlpool is the final chest.
You may have to search around
the whirlpool to actually find
the chest, but it isn't hard to
find. Get close to it and open
it, then time will freeze and
the Power Star will come out.
Quickly swim away from the
whirlpool and claim the Star.

================================
Star 3-Pole-Jumping for Red
Coins Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
================================
You may have noticed some red
coins when collecting the first
Star, all impossibly out of
reach. However, by beating the
first Star you activate poles in
that area, allowing you to reach
all of the coins. Start off as
usual in the water, then start
swimming down towards the hole
in the wall. Collect the Coins
inside to keep replenishing your
health. No need to surface
really unless you are awful at
swimming. Keep heading along the
arrowed path until you come out
of the tunnel in the larger
area. Swim up towards land then
jump up on it.

Once on land search around for
the ! Switch. Can't miss it.
Activate it then run away from
the switch, past the stairs that
once led to the submarine. You
will see a second set of brick
blocks. Climb up them to the top
to another platform not very
high above the surface of the
water. The first Red Coin is
found here.

From the Red Coin, turn left and
to the edge of the platform. In
the distance a pole is moving
back and forth towards you then
to the distance. Once the pole
is close to you Jump to it. When
it takes you back there are 3
Red Coins you will get only from
this pole. You need to be high
on the pole for the first Red
Coin, pretty low for the second,
then in the middle for the
third. Once you have acquired
the fourth Red Coin, jump off to
the starting platform once you
reach it.

Once you are back on the
starting platform again, turn
towards the left again and walk
towards the edge of the
platform. Another pole is
heading back and forth in this
area. When it comes near you
jump on it. Wait for a few
seconds until it starts moving
again, then when you are over
the next platform slide off it.

Head towards the left edge on
this platform. Wait for the
nearby pole to reach where you
are then jump onto it. Once you
reach the next platform, slide
off of the pole onto the next
platform. You have no use for
the Blue Coin Switch so ignore
it. Head to the right and wait
for the next pole to come. Jump
on it when that happens then
ride it over to a seemingly
caged area. Jump off of the pole
and grab the nearby Red Coin.
Quickly jump back on the pole.

Ride this pole again back over
to the platform the Blue Coin
Switch is on. Slide off the pole
once you are there, then head to
the left and jump onto the pole
there when it comes back to you.
Jump onto it when its above the
platform.

Ride it back to the central
platform, then head left and
wait for the next pole there.
This part is pretty hard from
crap camera angles so be
careful. Jump onto this pole
then ride it over to the corner.
Another pole will meet up with
you to the left at this corner.
Move around so your character's
back is facing this next pole
then quickly jump to it. If you
can never make it, as Mario,
jump down into the water and
swim to a platform with a ? Red
Block and grab the Power Flower
inside, then float up to the
required pole I previously
mentioned.

Now, as you are riding this pole
you will encounter a platform,
and a Red Coin in the air. Stay
on the pole and collect the Red
Coin once you reach it. Then,
once you head back to the large
platform, slide down onto it.
Head behind the caged area to
find another pole heading back
and forth between a long
distance. Hop on it, and grab
the last 2 Red Coins suspended
in the air here.

Now that you have reunited all 8
Red Coins the Power Star will
appear on one of the platforms.
Jump off the pole into the water
then head onto dry land and
activate the ! Switch. Head up
the stairs again to the
beginning platform and here, is
the Star.

================================
Star 4-Through the Jet Stream
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed
================================
Hmmm, another Star with the
exact same name, eh? Yes, same
name as in the Star from Jolly
Rodger Bay. Same kinda concept,
but as usual, from where you
start keep swimming down down
down. Avoid the suction of the
whirlpool and make your way to
the tunnel in the wall. Swim
along the path of arrows until
you reach the raised section, so
take a breather there. Continue
swimming along the marked path
until you reach the large
submarine port, which is
currently unused.

If you aren't Wario right now,
his Cap will be on the ocean
floor of the submarine port.
Easily found. Swim up to the
surface of the water and take a
left (While still underwater).
Nearby will be the Jet Stream
you are looking for. But, no
Star? You may notice, however, a
trail of rings continuously
being created from the current
of the Jet Stream. Head over to
the rings it is producing.

Get as close to the Jet Stream
as you can (Which probably isn't
too close). Just stay in the
position. Not much left to do at
this point but wait for 5 rings
in a row to pass through you.
After the 5th one goes through
you, the Star will appear in the
middle of the Jet Stream. Head
to the surface now and head
towards solid land. Get on it
and walk over to where the ? Red
Block is. Grab the Metal Flower,
and run into the ocean into the
Jet Stream. Claim the Star
there.

================================
Star 5-Koopa-Surfin' Switch Star
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Wario needed
================================
This Switch Star is moderately
easy. Wario is required to
access the Switch, then you can
use anyone else but it makes no
difference. Swimming isn't one
of the things on your list. As
you start as usual you'll be
dropped out of nowhere into the
ocean. Stay on the surface this
time around and search around
for a sand bar with some black
bricks and an ! Block on it.
Swim over to the sand bar and
break some bricks until you find
the one that reveals the actual
Star Switch. (The other blocks
hold a few Coins inside). Don't
activate the switch yet.

Nearby the Star Switch is a !
Block. Break and a Koopa Shell
will fall down to the ground.
Hop on the Koopa Shell and ride
over the Star Switch. The Star
Sphere appears on another island
some distance away. Quickly ride
the Koopa Shell across the water
aiming in the direction of the
Star (Look at the Touch Screen
map to find the correct
direction). Quickly Koopa surf
over there and ram into the Star
Sphere to claim the prize. If
you fail, you must ride over and
try again. If you lose the shell
then you need to restart the
level. I don't think this is
possible without the shell.

================================
Star 6-Inside the Cage
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi needed
================================
Another Star that requires and
involves a cage. Stop reusing
ideas people. Start off as usual
by being dumped into the water,
then start diving downwards
until you reach the hole in the
wall. Follow the arrows in the
tunnel until you reach the air
resting point to surface and
refresh your Power Meter.
Afterwards, keep diving down
until you reach the submarine
port. Nearby on the ocean floor
is a Luigi Cap, grab it if you
need it. Swim to the surface and
jump to solid ground.

Now that you are on solid land
once again, head over to the
left and follow the wooden path
until you reach a mesh wall.
Double Jump over this wall then
Double Jump once more over the
next wall. Grab the Power Flower
inside the Red ? Block.

Now that you are invisible, head
into the ocean and quickly dive
down to the bottom. Straight
ahead, or maybe a little left or
right depending on where you
jumped, is a mesh cage. Inside
is the Star you want. While
invisible, swim through the cage
for the Star.

=============================
Star 7-The Manta Ray's Reward
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
I'm sure by now that while
swimming underwater in Dire Dire
Docks, you must have noticed a
large manta ray swimming around.
He's the main target of this
Star. No, not killing him or
anything. That's wrong. Start
off as usual by dropping into
the water then swimming
downwards a little until you see
the manta ray. Behind the manta
ray, its tail is creating rings
similar to the how the jet
stream created rings in a
previous Star. Get behind him
and start tailing him, going
though 5 consectuive rings
without missing one (Otherwise
you must start at ring 1 again).
After going through 5 rings the
Star will appear. It is none
other than placed right above
the whirlpool. This is a bit
tricky as the manata ray likes
to move up and down
sporatically, and the hit
detection on the rings is really
crappy. Keep a decent distance
from him. Passing through the
rings just as they form
generally doesn't work.
Carefully swim to it and collect
your prize.

================================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:*****/*****
Recommended Character:Start as
Wario, Switch to Mario later
================================
Dire Dire Docks has an extremely
low shortage of Coins. That
poses a problem. There's about
115 Coins in all. However, 15
Coins need to be gotten quickly
or they dissappear, and 30 of
your Coinage comes from a kind
Blue Coin Switch. Like I said,
start off as Wario. If not, you
can always return to this step
later. As Wario (If not skip the
next few sentences), head to the
right and head until you go upon
shore, with the Black Brick
Blocks you used a few Stars ago.
Break all of the Black Bricks
for 3 Coins out of each one. Go
onto the Star Switch if a Coin
or 2 is on it, because the Star
Switch is of no value right now.
After collecting the few Coins
there, head onto the surface of
the water, but no need for
swimming down yet. You should
see some Skeeters (Blue spiders
incase you don't understand)
skating on the water surface
every few seconds, stopping and
skating and so on. Get next to
one then jump out of the water
onto it. It will die, and 3 Coin
will pop out, but will start
sinking underwater. They will
disappear very quickly, however.
Swim down quickly and get as
many as you can get. Do this for
every Skeeter. Don't worry-If
you have at least 20 Coins after
killing all of the Skeeters you
are in good shape for the
Collect 100 Coin Star.

Now, pretty much the next 35 or
so Coins are located underwater,
so don't worry. Swim towards the
right or left, and start simming
downwards until you reach a
string of 5 Coins coming up from
the ground. As anyone would say,
collect them, then follow the
trail of Coins on the ground
around the base of the
whirlpool. The suction is
strong, so you want to be
swimming as fast as you can at
all times. Once there are no
more Coins at the base of the
whirlpool, start heading for the
opening in the wall the leads to
the Submarine Port. Before
heading in there exactly, you
should easily notice the circle
of Coins leading inside the hole
in the wall. There are 2 strings
very close to the whirlpool, and
3 more inside the hole. Without
getting sucked into the
whirlpool (That'd suck, no pun
intended) head in a circle while
swimming to collect those circle
of Coins. You may not get them
all in 1 go, so keep trying
until you get them all. Then
head inside the hole in the wall
and simply repeat the process.
Once you have hoarded all 40
Coins, your Coin totals should
represent at least 60. If you
haven't broken 60 yet, there's
still plenty of Coins left to
make up for that. Head through
the tunnel, making sure to
surface for more air when you
need it. Keep going until you
are close to the Submarine Port.
Before getting out of the hole
in the wall, get another 2 Coin
Rings for 16 more Coins. Easy
stuff really. Get the Mario Cap
nearby.

The Mario Cap, if you can't find
it, its at the bottom of the
area in the Submarine Port.
Nearby is a circle of 8 Coins,
on the bottom and not floating
vertically. Grab them easily, no
problem there. Surface on top of
the water from where you are and
head left. Another 5 Coins are
just lying on the ground so
collect them. Head to the left
some more now, and go past the !
Switch. Go straight, then jump
over the mesh walls with Mario.
Jump past both mesh walls to be
on a platform near walls with a
? Red Block on the platform.

You need Mario for this part.
Can't stress this enough. Grab
the Power Flower after hitting
the block. Start floating
quickly as Mario, there isn't
much time. During the Red Coin
Challenge you must have seen a
platform with a Blue Coin Switch
on it. Head for it. Its dead
behind you from the ? Red Block
(If you were facing the wall
that is). Head for it, quickly
tapping B to gain height, then
using it to float quickly
forwards. Ground Pound to land
on the small platform. Pound the
Blue Coin Switch once you are in
position. 6 Blue Coins will
appear, but you need to jump to
reach all of them. They are all
on the edges of the platform.
You have about 8 seconds. If you
fall off the platform, but have
more than 84 Coins at that point
don't worry. If you don't have
84 Coins if you fell off, reset
the level. Heck, after
collecting all of the Blue Coins
you should easily have gotten
100 Coins by now. If you
haven't, don't worry. There are
still the matter of the 8 Red
Coins in this room still.
Float/Pole your way to all of
them, then claim your Star.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Now we have covered all of the
Stars we can get to at this
point of the game. After beating
Board Bowser's Sub, the painting
will shift back revealing the
entrance to Bowser in the Fire
Sea.

--------------------------------
  ~V L.Bowser in the Fire Sea~
--------------------------------
In order to actually access
Bowser in the Fire Sea, you may
notice the little hump in the
ground behind the Dire Dire
Docks painting. You need to
collect the Star "Board Bowser's
Sub" in order to make the
painting move back. Jump into
the revealed hole.

This place looks familar. Bowser
has relocated himself to a sea
of fire. At least you can't fall
to your death, although the lava
will still kill you pretty
quickly. Start off by heading
right and hop onto the nearby
blue mesh platform. It will
start moving so be ready.
Eventually the platform will go
underneath a long platform, so
hop on the platform then onto
the blue mesh elevator when it
rises from the lava again. You
can easily see the blue railway
under the lava right? You may
notice it dip down in a few
seconds. Jump to the left
towards some tilting diamond
shaped platforms in the lava.
When the mesh elevator comes
from the lava, jump back to it
and jump at the final platform
it stops at. Continue along this
path until you reach several
blue platforms sinking and
rising in the lava. When they
aren't submerged quickly run
across them to the adjacent
platform.

Here will be several Goombas, a
Bully, and a spinning heart. Run
through the heart while still
running right until you reach a
sinking and rising pole in the
lava, with an Amp circling it
continuously. Jump onto the pole
and position your back to the
raised platform behind you.
Climb to the top of the pole and
wait for the pole to reach the
top of its movement, then jump
to the raised platform. This
platform is tilting, so quickly
jump to the next tilting
platform and then climb the pole
there. At the top you will be in
an enclosed mesh cage. There is
a nearby elevator that will take
you to the second floor of the
Fire Sea.

Here, head to the left, then
jump across the small gap. Next,
jump over the triangle shaped
platform then hold onto the wire
mesh net on the other side.
Collect the Coins there then
fall off on the other side. 2
square shaped platforms are
moving back and forth across the
lava. Walk across them quickly
to reach the next platform with
a few Bullies on it. Walk past
them quickly then walk up the
wire yellow pathway to a higher
platform. Then, follow the
pathway to another yellow
walkway, then avoid a hole to
another yellow walkway. At the
top seems to be a dead end. You
may not notice, but these
platforms are rising and
sinking. Wait for another
pathway to come into view then
jump onto it. Follow the winding
pathway around to a Bob-omb, and
you are on the third floor.

Now infront of you are 5 blue
platforms rising and sinking in
the lava, an Amp circling around
one of them, and a fire breather
on the third one. Ouch. Once
they are all un-submerged
quickly run across all of them
to the other side. Avoid
everything they throw. Jump over
the fire breather, avoid the Amp
and don't touch the lava. On the
next platform is a spinning
Heart. Use it to recover if you
need to. Jump onto the nearby
pole, then face your back
towards the next platform, with
a now pole sinking and rising
into the lava. Swing down the
pole then jump to the lower
platform. Climb one more pole
and you willl appear infront of
a falling bridgeway. Quickly run
across the yellow collapsing
bridge. On the other side jump
into the blue tube to be
transported to Bowser.

Bowser will greet you once
again. He will then roar at you
after you finish the
conversation then jump high into
the air, and slam onto the
battlefield. It will tilt
majorly towards him and to the
lava. Quickly run in the
opposing direction, but its
never enough. When the platform
straightens out focus on Bowser.
If your close to him for a few
seconds he will teleport himself
somewhere else on the field,
generally nearby. Once you have
him grabbed by the tail, swing
him around towards one of the
now 6 Bombs edging the
battlefield and throw him away.
Hopefully you hit him into one,
otherwise keep trying. If you
entered the battle as Yoshi,
don't worry. Wait for Bowser to
breathe fire and one of the
flames will leave behind a
random Cap. No big deal. Good
luck!

--------------------------------
 ~V M.Course 10:Snowman's Land~
--------------------------------
After defeating Bowser in the
Fire Sea, he will leave behind
another key. Take it and head
all the way back to the lobby,
then use the key to enter the
door on the 2nd Floor of the
lobby. Head around the spiral
staircase and enter the door at
the top to be on the 2nd Floor
of the actual Castle. Take a
right from the big spider
painting and enter a door inside
a little enclosed space on the
wall. This is the mirror room.
Head to the left and when you
get to the wall, jump inside for
your next world, the ever so fun
Snowman's Land!

=============================
Star 1-Snowman's Big Head
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Welcome to Snowman's Land, one
of my favorite levels. The
second and last of the snow
related levels, sadly, but still
the Stars are fun. They aren't
very difficult however, so don't
expect much of a challenge. The
main attraction of Snowman's
Land is the giant Snowman in the
middle of the course. It isn't
hard to miss. You will see it
right away. Start off by heading
to the right, and past a Mr.
Blizzard when it pops from the
ground. Keep going and when the
path splits head towards the
right. You will pass a campsite
of Goombas with Caps. Ignore
them, and keep going. Don't head
up the ramp nearby. Keep going
into an open area, then head
left. You will soon come to the
Freezing Pond. This pond is
pretty bad. The water is so cold
it does the same effect as
jumping onto lava. You will lose
a lot of health quickly if you
touch the water, so avoid it.

Jump across the pond's waters to
a nearby island sorta thing. The
water here is very bad as well,
but not quite as lethal. It will
slowly kill you because it is so
cold, so avoid dipping into it.
You will not gain health by
staying at the water's surface,
so don't even try to do that. If
you accidentally fall in,
quickly Jump out. Head along the
island path to the left where a
hole in the wall is making large
ice sheets. Jump over the ice
sheets, then once you reach the
wall, Double Jump, then climb up
the ledge.

Now on this ledge, carefully
make your way across a small
wooden plank hanging onto the
large snowman's side area. At
the end of this small and thin
pathway is a little ramp and a
tree. Pass the tree and go ahead
along the following path until
you come up to a large ice
bridge. Step onto it and the
giant Snowman will talk and
think you are nothing but a flea
and start to breathe along the
bridge. Go any further and you
will be blown off and have to
climb back from the start. Not
only that, but your cap will be
blown off and you will need to
recover it, unless you are Yoshi
who isn't wearing a cap in which
case you will just be blown off.
How to get across? Simple. You
see the large penguin constantly
waddling across the bridge? Wait
for him to reach your side of
the bridge then Double Jump over
onto his head and climb to it.
Ride him across to the other
side, and you won't get blown
off. When he finally reaches the
other side Jump off of him.

Once across the ice bridge
follow the wooden path until you
reach a small wall. Double Jump
or Backflip up to the higher
ledge above you. The Star is
here so grab it.

An alternative way to reaching
the Star is activating the
cannon at the start of the
level. The Bob-omb is found in
the igloo (instructions to get
there are in a later Star). Hop
in the cannon and try to land on
the tree at the top of the
snowman's head. If you grab onto
it, slide down then jump down a
ledge to the Star.

=============================
Star 2-Chill With the Bully
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
This level isn't very hard. Head
along to the right from where
you start. If you are Wario or
Yoshi when starting this level,
head to the left up the hill.
Even if you aren't, it is still
a shorter path. At the top of
this small hill is a Red ?
Block. Hit it to become Fire
Yoshi/ Metal which will make
this Star a tad easier.

Once you have the Power Flower,
look around and aim yourself
towards a large sheet of blue
ice raised above some ice water.
If you miss, no big deal. Head
to the right and follow the lake
around until you reach a hill,
leading to the ice sheet
platform. Here is where the Ice
Bully resides. He is just like
the Big Bully from Lethal Lava
Land. If you are Wario, simply
walk into him while metal for
him to be knocked back. If
Yoshi, breathing fire makes him
knocked back really far. If your
Mario or Luigi, you will need to
Punch him or Jump into him to
knock him back. Once he hits the
Freezing Water, you will win.
However, that water is exactly
like lava, so don't touch it!
Grab the Star that appears when
you win.

================================
Star 3-Yoshi's Ice Sculpture
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Yoshi needed
================================
This Star kinda got my hopes up.
I was hoping for a large block
of ice carved like a Yoshi.
Sadly, all we get are a few ice
blocks with a Star in one of
them. Disappointing. Oh well, as
the name implies, only Yoshi can
tackle this Star. Head right
from where you start then head
left up the large hill. Once you
get to the top hit the ? Red
Block and take the Power Flower
to have the ability to breathe
fire for a limited time. Quickly
run back, past where you
started.

Evevntually you will see a
wooden platform with many ice
blocks ontop of it. Double Jump
to the one with only 2 blocks
(Bottom right corner). Get
towards the left edge on this
block and breathe fire at the
stack of 3 blocks. The top one
will melt. Jump to where it was,
then face forwards and melt that
block once your at the edge. The
jump to where it was and face
towards the right, where the
Star is. Melt the block, and the
Star will be revealed. Grab it.
This may take a few times
because you just might run out
of time with the Power Flower
though. Also, freezing the wrong
blocks can make it impossible to
complete the Star, so you may
need to restart anyways if that
happens.

================================
Star 4-Whirl From the Freezing
Pond Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Hmmm? There appears to be a
mystery with the freezing pond,
eh? Whirl? You will find out
soon. When you start head
towards the right, past the Mr.
Blizzard. Head up the leftern
hill, then continue Jumping to
the left. Walk along the
snowland, past a large field of
enemies until you finally reach
the freezing pond once again.
Head onto the middle island of
the pond, and go past where the
ice sheets dump out.

Right now, take the time to look
at a large and high ledge not
too far from where you are.
That's your destination. Stay
near the edge of the freezing
pond and wait for one of the
Flowergirl's swimming in the
lake to make their slow selves
come near you. When they are
pretty close, jump onto their
heads to get a large height and
start spinning slowly back to
the ground. Quickly start making
your way towards the high ledge.
If you don't think you will make
it, try to bounce on another
Flowergirl in the water for some
more height. Once you reach the
other side of the ledge, break
the ! Block to the left to
reveal your Star.

=============================
Star 5-Snowman's Silver Stars
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
5 Silver Stars are bouncing in
place in many sections of
Snowman's Land. However, you
need the use of the lone Koopa
Shell in this level to get the
Stars. When you start head
towards the right, past the Mr.
Blizzard. Head up the leftern
hill, then continue Jumping to
the left. Walk along the
snowland, past a large field of
enemies until you finally reach
the freezing pond once again.
Head onto the middle island of
the pond, and go past where the
ice sheets dump out.

Right now, take the time to look
at a large and high ledge not to
far from where you are. That's
your destination. Stay near the
edge of the freezing pond and
wait for one of the Flowergirl's
swimming in the lake to make
their asses come near you. When
they are pretty close, jump onto
their heads to get a large
height and start spinning slowly
back to the ground. Quickly
start making your way towards
the high ledge. If you don't
think you will make it, try to
bounce on another Flowergirl in
the water for some more height.
Once you reach the other side of
the ledge, you will notice 2 !
Block's. One contains the Star
from the previous earned one,
and the other has a Koopa Shell.
Get on the Koopa Shell.

Start Koopa Surfin' to the right
now, and up the small hill. Your
first Silver Star resides here.
You need to be careful though.
You will need to Jump on the
shell a few times to actually
start gaining any speed. Keep
going until you are close to the
wall, then make a right and keep
following the path. However,
there are 2 Mr. Blizzards along
this path so beware of them! At
the end of this pathway is your
first Silver Star. Now, head off
to the right.

Continue along this wall,
avoiding everything else,
enemies, other walls, and other
Silver Stars (You will get
later) and keep going until you
reach the infamous campsite of 3
poor Goombas. Nearby is another
Silver Star in the air. Turn
around from where you got the
second Silver Star and start
heading towards the Ice Bully.
Near the little pathway that
leads to him is another Silver
Star in the air. Grab it.

Now, if you don't have your
Shell you need to go get another
one because you risk an easy
death if you don't have one.
Head to the left from the Silver
Star and go under the ice sheet
covered platform the Ice Bully
is always on. Underneath here on
the freezing lake is another
Silver Star. Grab it with ease.

Now that you have reunited all 5
Silver Stars once more, the
actual Power Star will appear in
the Star Sphere back near the
beginning of the level. After
geting the previous Silver Star,
make a sharp U-turn to the
right, then continue following
the path that way. You may
encounter the campsite of
Goombas or an Amp depending on
your path. They both end right
near the Star Sphere so break it
for the Star.

================================
Star 6-Into the Igloo
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi needed
================================
You need to be the man in green
to complete the level.
Otherwise, head for the Goomba
campsite. Start off by heading
to the right, and past a Mr.
Blizzard when it pops from the
ground. Keep going and when the
path splits head towards the
right. You will pass a campsite
of Goombas with Caps. Ignore
them, and keep going. Don't head
up the ramp nearby. Keep going
into an open area, then head
left. You will soon come to the
Freezing Pond. As always, avoid
falling into the water.

Jump across the pond's waters to
a nearby island sorta thing. The
water is very bad. It will
slowly kill you because it is so
cold, so avoid dipping into it.
If you accidentally fall in,
quickly jump out. Head along the
island path to the left where a
hole in the wall is making large
ice sheets. Right here you
should notice 2 Flowergirl's in
the water. Jump on the one that
is closest to you to get
propelled into the air, and
start spinning downwards slowly.
Quickly start spinning towards
the high walled ledge, where the
Whirl from the Freezing Pond
Star resides. Don't actually get
that Star on the other side
though.

Break the ! Block on the right
to have a Koopa Shell come out.
Jump onto it, and head back the
way you came. Surf over the wall
back onto the Freezing Pond.
Look around on the water for a
trail of Coins leading up a
sharp hill. Follow the Coins,
then jump up the hill with the
Shell. Its very steep, and you
will lose speed very quickly.
Quickly keep jumping up to the
top of the hill, then crash your
Shell into the fence. Crawl into
the nearby Igloo that's by the
fence.

Wow, what the hell? The Igloo
from inside is far bigger inside
than it is outside. Creepy
stuff. You may notice that when
you start off you will be over a
wire mesh grating. Look down,
there is your prize. The Star
rests there. Head along the left
side of the igloo, and Jump
across from platform to platform
avoiding the freezing cold
water. Eventually you will reach
the platform with a ? Red Block
on it. Nearby this block is a
Bob-omb Buddy. Talk to her to
open up the cannon resting near
the start of the level. This
will let you easily access the
igloo in the future. Back to the
Red ! Block, hit it and grab the
Power Flower as Luigi. Quickly
go back the way you came,
Jumping over platforms, then
fall though the mesh gate and
grab the nearby Star.

=============================
Star 7-Red Coins in the House
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Back to the Igloo I guess! Use
the cannon if you unlocked it,
otherwise start off by heading
to the right, and past a Mr.
Blizzard when it pops from the
ground. Keep going and when the
path splits head towards the
right. You will pass a campsite
of Goombas with Caps. Ignore
them, and keep going. Don't head
up the ramp nearby. Keep going
into an open area, then head
left. You will soon come to the
Freezing Pond. Don't fall into
the pond.

Jump across the pond's waters to
a nearby island sorta thing. The
water is bad. It will slowly
kill you because it is so cold,
so avoid dipping into it. If you
accidentally fall in, quickly
jump out. Head along the island
path to the left where a hole in
the wall is making large ice
sheets. Right here you should
notice 2 Flowergirl's in the
water. jump on the one that is
closest to you to get propelled
into the air, and start spinning
downwards slowly. Quickly start
spinning towards the high walled
ledge, where the Whirl from the
Freezing Pond Star resides. Like
before, don't get it.

Break the ! Block on the right
to have a Koopa Shell come out.
Jump onto it, and head back the
way you came. Surf over the wall
back onto the Freezing Pond.
Look around on the water for a
trail of Coins leading up a
sharp hill. Follow the Coins,
then jump up the hill with the
Shell. Its very steep, and you
will lose speed very quickly.
Quickly keep jumping up to the
top of the hill, the crash your
Shell into the fence. Crawl into
the nearby Igloo that's by the
fence.

You will appear inside the igloo
again. There are only 8 Red
Coins that lie inside this
Igloo, like the title implies.
There are a few Coins under the
freezing water, so quickly grab
those. There are a few Coins in
the air so use the Backflip to
reach them. A few Coins are just
lying on the ground. Their
descriptions for locations are
hard to describe but this should
take no more than 2 minutes. It
is a fairly easy Star. Talk to
the Bob-omb Buddy near the
entrance/exit of the igloo to
point out the locations of the
remaining red coins if you are
having some trouble finding
them.

=============================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Another 100 Coins challenge it
appears, why must it always be
this way. Good for you though,
Snowman's Land is chuck full of
Coins, so you shouldn't have any
trouble reaching 100 in a few
minutes. Better yet, like Cool,
Cool Mountain, there is a glitch
you can do to get infinite
coins. Seriously. This really
will take just a few minutes, or
a little more if you need to use
the glitch. From where you start
head right until a Mr. Blizzard
comes from the ground. Run
around him a few times until he
dies where he will then spit out
3 Coins. Head back to the left
now, towards the ice sculpture.
Head right of the sculpture, and
you will see 3 Coins on the
ground. The first 2 are normal
but when you get near the third
it will transform into a Money
Bag. It will hop around a little
bit, so Jump on it for him to
die, and spit out 5 more Coins.
Turn around and head for the
wall. A few Flowergirl's are
lined up against the wall, so
Ground Pound them all for
another three Yellow Coins each.

Now, head back to where you
started, but keep on heading
forward. Keep heading up the
hill until you reach another
Flowergirl. Kill her for 3 more
Coins. Jump off the small cliff
you are on now onto the windy
valley below. When you have the
chance, kill the nearby Fly Guy
for more Coins. Head to the left
after the wind sweeps you out of
the valley. Eventually you will
come up upon a campsite. 3
Goombas are wondering around in
there, all with Caps on then.
Kill all 3 for 3 more Coins,
then kill the nearby Flowergirl
for another 3 Coins.

After you have hoarded all 6
Coins in this small section,
head left, but stay to the right
of the rampway that leads to Ice
Bully. Once you pass the Ice
Bully and the Freezing Pond, you
will be in another small section
of Snowman's Land. Here, walk to
the left and Mr. Blizzard will
pop out of the ground. Run
around him several times to kill
him and make him squirt out
several Coins. Nearby is a Coin
on the ground, which will morph
into a Money Bag when you come
near it. Jump on it for a few
Coins. Near where the Money Bag
was, is another Flowergirl. Kill
the Flowergirl to recieve 3 more
Coins to your totals.

Now, head to the Freezing Lake
to the left now. There will be
another Flowergirl on the way
there, so kill her and collect
her 3 Coins left behind. When
you reach the Freezing Lake,
jump over the small area to the
island platform. Another
Flowergirl will slowly be
approaching you, so kill here
once she comes near. Head out
into the Freezing Lake and kill
the Flowergirl closest to the
wall and collect here 3 Coins
that sink to the bottom of the
lake.

After you do that, head back to
the middle island. A Flowergirl
nearby in the water will just be
floating there. Jump ontop of
her to get a high whirl, and
start to spin slowly towards the
ground. Keep heading towards the
area with the Whirl from the
Freezing Pond Star. Once you
reach over there, break the !
Box for a Koopa Shell.

Once you have the Koopa Shell
and are riding it, head back
over the cliff into the Freezing
Lake. Head towards the tall
slope near the ice maker
machine. There is a trail of
Coins leading up the hill, so
grab them as your Shell makes
its way up there (You may need
to jump once or twice). Once at
the top, break the shell then
crawl into the Igloo. If you
haven't gotten 100 Coins yet
(You may have by now) then the
remaining 40 or so Coins rest
inside the Igloo. Whether in the
air or under the water, the
Coins, not to mention Red Coins
worth 2 Coins each, are in here.
There are around a dozen or so
Flowergirl's, so another 36
Coins will be added to your
totals there. If you still don't
have 100 Coins, then you may
want to perform the simple
glitch. When you leave the
igloo, return to the campsite
with the three Goomba's. They
will give you coins again. Use
the cannon to reach the igloo
again, enter and exit, then kill
the Goombas for more coins. You
can repeat this glitch infintely
for as many coins as you want.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
We won't be heading to the next
course just yet. You are back in
the mirror room of course. Enter
the mirror room as Luigi, and on
some of the pedistals in the
room will be a Power Flower.
Grab one as Luigi, then run
through the mirror. On the other
side you can enter the opposite
door for a Star, or enter the
nearby Wario Painting. Do so.

=================
~Unlocking Wario~
=================
Unlocking Wario can be a bit
tough, to be honest. Getting to
him is pretty damn annoying.
Firstly, the only requirement is
to have beaten the 2nd Bowser to
have access to the 2nd Floor of
the Castle. Next, you need to be
Luigi. Sadly, nobody else is
able to pull off this stunt.
Head up the stairs in the Lobby
and through the door. Climb
around the spiral staircase then
go through the nearby door. Head
to the right inside this next
large room and go through the
next visible door. Finally, you
will be in the mirror room. As
Luigi, some of the pedistals in
the room will have a Power
Flower ontop of them. Sweet.
Grab one of them and quickly run
through the mirror. Cool. On the
other side, walk towards the
right. The Wario Painting will
be in view. Jump into the
painting.

You will be dropped onto the new
course, and what do you know?
Its a snow level. Well, more
like an ice level. Everything is
more like ice. You'll be
slipping and sliding everywhere.
Start off by sliding down the
slide that lies infront of you.
Eventually, the slide will end
into a bottomless pit. However,
fortunately for you, there is a
gust of wind though once you
fall off. Manuver yourself
forwards still, until you drop
onto land.

There will be a few Bullies on
this platform. Ignore them, and
head towards the left. There
will be four diamond shaped
tilting platforms all near each
other. Once you are on the
fourth one, jump back onto solid
land. There is another lone
Bully here, but ignore him. Head
towards the right and a mesh
pathway will be moving back and
forth across a gap. Jump on it,
then Jump onto solid land once
there.

Once you are on this large
platform, the pathway spilts.
Take the path to the right, and
eventually it will end. Don't
worry, but Jump off and another
gust of wind will push you high
and will eventually stop once
you clear the gap. You will land
in another freezing pond. Swim
across, then Jump out and across
the fence.

Once you are out of the lake and
across the fence you will be on
another rather large section of
ice. There are 5 Bullies here,
and will all charge at you when
your close to them. Jump over
them to pass them, then Jump
over the next fence.

You will be on a small piece of
land, with a lot of large and
small ice blocks infront of you.
Some are moving back and forth,
left and right, or even some are
moving up and down. It is very
hard to describe what to do
exactly. Jump carefully from one
to the next until you are back
on solid ground again.

Now that you are back on solid
land once and for all, continue
forwards along the fenced path.
Head past the gated bars once
you come to them. Soon enough
you will soon see some platforms
rising and sinking and poping
out and in of the nearby walls.
Once again, they move in weird
patterns, so simply keep jumping
up them until you reach the next
level. On this next level you
will once again see some more
walls of the walls moving back
and forth, up and down and the
like. When you have the chance
keep Jumping up them to the next
level. Here, keep heading
forwards, past a Mr. Blizzard
that is in the ground. Pass him,
and the last set of platforms
that are coming in and out of
the walls will be infront of
you. Simply wait for them to be
in the right position then
continue to Jump up them to the
top. Jump into the hole here.

You will be dropped down onto a
small battlefield, infront of
another Ice Bully. He will
introduce himself as Chief
Chilly, and comment that your
moustache sucks and his is the
best around. He also comments
that he locked up another yellow
fellow with a good moustache.
So, let's kill him to rescue
Wario. Outside of the
battlefield is icy cold water.
Don't touch it at any cost. When
you get the chance, Jump into
him or keep Punching him until
he finally falls off the edge.
He will then proceed to bounce
around the outside of the stage,
making some of it fall into the
water. On a smaller arena now
just repeat that same process.
After he is in the water again
he will bounce around the arena
breaking off and even larger
portion of the field. On a
rather small field push Chief
Chilly to the edge, and while he
is bouncing hit him again. He
will then forfeit the Wario Key.

--------------------------------
 ~V N.Course 11:Wet-Dry World~
--------------------------------
Welcome to Wet-Dry World! Odd
name, wouldn't you say? After
beating Bowser in the Fire Sea,
head up to the second floor of
the Castle, and enter the
painting of a Skeeter. Wet-Dry
World's painting though has a
catch. Depending on how high you
entered the painting, this will
determine the water level when
you enter the world. The higher
your jump the higher the water
level and vise versa. Also
within the world are
multicolored Diamond Water
Raisers (As I call them). These,
when touched, will raise or
lower the current water level to
where the diamond is in the
level. There are sevral diamonds
placed throughout the world.
Easy to find. Also, the world
contains 2 sections. The normal
area and Downtown. Near start
you should see a very, very tall
cage. If the water level is very
high or you use the cannon and
swim along the path, you'll
enter Downtown. From Downtown,
you are able to do several
things you can't do in the
regular area. You can swim
between the areas at any time.
Have fun.

=============================
Star 1-Shocking Arrow Lifts!
Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Special moving elevators with
arrows signifying their
directions + Amps that circle
them, and you get Shocking Arrow
Lifts. Pretty simple Star. Wet-
Dry World usually wants you to
take the normal route to the
Star, but sadly there are always
shortcuts in life, and this
world is no exception. I'll
always list the shortest routes
to the Star.

Before you Jump into the
painting for this Star, make
sure you Jump into the bottom to
make the water the lowest. When
you start off, head left. Keep
going until you see a medium
ranged high platform, with what
looks like stairs on it from
above. This sorta makes a
backwards L shape. Stand in the
corner of the "|" and the "_".
By standing in this corner, you
will activate the warp.

When you reappear, you will soon
find out you are near a cannon
cover, on a high platform pretty
high off the ground. Turn to the
right, then grab the edge and
fall down. You will land on a
small platform, with a fire
emitter and a ! Yellow Block.
Hit the ! Block, which will
reveal this Power Star. Go grab
it.

=============================
Star 2-Top O' the Town
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
When you enter the painting for
Wet-Dry World, Jump into the
painting as high as you can go
to flood the world to the
highest point (That's not all of
it, but up like 90% to the top).
Now, when you start, swim
forwards. When you reach the
edge of the level, turn to the
left and face a brick slope.
Jump up ontop of it.

Once you climb up onto the
tilted surface, run forwards
past a Goomba and a Bob-omb
Buddy. Some brick stairs will be
infront, leading to a small gap.
Jump over the gap.

Once you are on the main flat
section, if you aren't Mario,
ignore the ? Red Block. If you
are, grab the Power Flower and
turn around and keep floating
towards a small platform. The
Star is on the platform so grab
it. If you aren't Mario,
continue along and before you
reach the Chuck-Ya, turn left. A
long wooden plank will be there.
Jump ontop of it and walk over
the precariously perched
platform. Soon you will reach a
spinning platform right near the
Star. Grab it.

================================
Star 3-5 Secrets in the Shallows
& Sky Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
There are 5 hidden secrets
hidden secretly about this
secret world. Seriously now,
like I said you are on another
hunt to find 5 secrets, but they
aren't exactly "Coins" secrets.
You will find out soon. Start
the level with the water as low
as possible.

From where you start when
dropped to the bottom, head to
the left and onto another
platform. Go past the fire
breather, Skeeter and Blue Coin
Switch until you see a metal
block in the wall. You can push
this block. Push it in until you
get the first Secret.

Head to the left some more and
drop down into the shallow
water. There is another metal
block here near the wall. Push
it to the left until the block
is under a ! Yellow Block. Get
ontop of the brick and break the
block for the second Secret.
While you are pushing you will
earn the third secret as well
(How odd).

Head back onto the platform we
just dropped ourselves off of
and wait for the Heave-Ho to be
approaching you and facing away
from the wall. Walk into his
heaving device thing to be flung
up to the next level. Repeat
this same process with another
nearby Heave-Ho to be flung to
the next level. Ignore this
Heave-Ho and the Amp and go left
until your near a round small
tower. Get ontop of this tower
(Don't fall down though) and
break the ! Block for your
fourth secret.

Head to the left on the same
high area, and walk towards a !
Red Switch. Activate it to have
some stairs lead to the top of
the wire cage leading towards
another ! Yellow Block ontop of
it. Break it open for the fifth
and final secret. The Star will
appear on a platform quite a
distance away from your
location.

From the top of the cage, Long
Jump over to the nearby platform
jutting out of the wall, with a
Goomba and a Bob-omb Buddy
there. Head to the right on that
platform to find a Diamond Water
Raiser. Rise the water to the
top, then get in it and swim
down under the water to where
the Power Star is. Grab it to
clear the level.

================================
Star 4-Express Elevator-Hurry
Up!! Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Luigi
================================
You all love and know shortcuts.
Heh, this Star is a rather large
one at that! Not to mention, you
save a lot of time and its
literally a backflip away. So of
course, you want to start off as
Luigi (The Luigi Cap is
downtown, and you can swim back
to uptown once downtown). Also,
it is highly reccommended that
you start off this Star whilst
the water is at its highest
level to make this quick and
simple. Once you start off, head
forwards from where you start
into the water. Keep swimming
and make a left once you reach
the big mesh wall. Take a left
from the mesh tower. Keep
swimming then head onto land,
and ignore the Goombas.

Jump up the large stairs and
ignore the Bob-omb Buddy who
exclaims that there is a
wildfire of Wario Caps in the
world. Who cares? Walk under the
nearby ? Red Block over the gap.

Jump and break the ? Red Block
to reveal none other than a
Power Flower! Run forwards now,
hurry, hurry! Go past Chuck-Ya
and to the left, then jump ontop
of the big and long wooden
plank. Walk on it, ignoring the
Amps that can't hurt you. When
you reach the spinning platform,
head 1 platform to the left of
it and face away from the large
cage with the Power Star.
Backflip and twirl down to the
Star, and you go right through
the Cage. Amazing! If your
Flower Power runs out, its easy
to retry. This Star is possible
with the Backflip from many
different positions so do
whichever suits you best (The
above I personally like). Simply
grab the Star (Don't fall onto
the actual elevator!) to clear
the level.

If you want to do it the normal
way, then that too is pretty
simple. At the top of the town,
get on top of the large metal
cage with the water at its
lowest level. You'll need to use
the Heave-Ho's to reach the top
again. On the side of the cage
are two brown platforms. One has
a Star inside the cage. The one
to the left doesn't. Fall onto
the left platform to make it
move downwards. Fall off the
platform to the bottom of the
world and break the brick there
and get inside the cage. When
the elevator falls, jump onto
it. When it reaches the top
again you will be right next to
the Star.

===============================
Star 5-Go to Town for Red Coins
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
===============================
Before entering Wet-Dry World,
enter the painting as high as
you can go so the enitre world
is flooded and the Star will be
easily accessed from there. Once
you start, head forwards and
into the water. Keep swimming
towards the very tall mesh wire
structure. Once you are close to
it jump out into the structure.

Start diving downwards once you
are inside the mesh grating. At
the bottom the path continues to
form a tunnel. Its pretty long,
so I advise you to swim as
quickly as you can before you
completely run out of air. Keep
heading inside the tunnel,
following the arrows until you
reach 2 mesh walls in the
tunnel. There are holes under
and above them so you can easily
squeeze through there. Once out
of the tunnel you will be in the
Downtown area of Wet-Dry World.
Head to the left and keep
swimming downwards. You will see
a Diamond Water Raiser. Hit it
to lower the water to the very
bottom, revealing all of
Downtown.

Now that you are downtown, you
need to find all 8 Red Coins
that reside here. Almost all of
them are hidden in crates, but
the crates are too easy to find,
but harder to actually reach.
Start off from the Diamond Water
Raiser by backflipping onto a
thin brown wall. There are 2
crates up here, and each of them
contains your first and second
Red Coin.

From the blasted bricks, head to
the right and up a few large
steps and you will be near what
appears to be a church. A Red
Coin rests inside the little
alcove in it so grab it.
Backflip to the pole ontop of
the church (Also, a brick block
near the church contains a Red
Coin if you didn't figure it out
already) and climb to the top,
and head across the bridge to a
small platform with a Diamond
Water Raiser. Don't activate it.
Face to the left towards the
rooftops of some houses. Long
Jump over there. Break a brick
there for another Red Coin, then
Jump to another nearby roof for
the 6th Red Coin. From there,
head all the way back to the top
via the pole ontop of the
church. This time around face to
the right and Long Jump over
thatta way. You should land on
another rooftop with a brick
containing the 7th Red Coin.
Jump to another nearby rooftop
and break the final brick for
the last and final, 8th Red
Coin.

The Star will now appear in the
little alcove in the church. Go
over there and grab the Star.

================================
Star 6-Quick Race Through
Downtown! Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Luigi
needed
================================
Before entering Wet-Dry World,
enter the painting as high as
you can go so the enitre world
is flooded and the Star will be
easily accessed from there. Once
you start, head forwards and
into the water. Keep swimming
towards the very tall mesh wire
structure. Once you are close to
it jump out into the structure.

Start diving downwards once you
are inside the mesh grating. At
the bottom the path continues to
form a tunnel. Its pretty long,
so I advise you to swim as
quickly as you can before you
completly run out of air. Keep
heading inside the tunnel,
following the arrows until you
reach 2 mesh walls in the
tunnel. There are holes under
and above them so you can easily
squeeze through there. Once out
of the tunnel you will be in the
Downtown area of Wet-Dry World.
Head to the left and keep
swimming downwards. You will see
a Diamond Water Raiser. Hit it
to lower the water to the very
bottom, revealing all of
Downtown.

One the water has been completly
drained, turn around and head
towards the ? Red Block in the
distance. Grab the Luigi Cap
along the way if you need it.
Break the ? Red Block and grab
the Power Flower that lies
inside to become invisible. Now
that Luigi is invisible for a
limited time, we can finally
access the cage in the corner of
Downtown. Run back the way you
came, slipping through the walls
that you come to. Once you reach
the mesh cage quickly run
through it. Once inside the
cage, Backflip to a higher
level. From there you can easily
Jump up a few stairs, and this
all leads directly to the Power
Star.

================================
Star 7-Soaked Silver Stars
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Mario needed
================================
All right, then. Its time to
collect another batch of 5
Silver Stars hidden throughout
the level! You are going need
the water level to be at the
very top to make this pretty
simple, so do so and this Star
will be a breeze. Start off by
swimming forwards towards the
giant mesh gate, then taking a
left onto land with a Goomba and
a Bob-omb Buddy. Head forwards
until you reach a ? Red Block.
Grab the Power Flower as Mario,
and float high until a Silver
Star is visible in the distance
in the air. Float all the way
over to it and grab it.

You will fall down and do you
Star dance. Yay, yay. Fall from
there into the water, and start
swimming right and diving
downwards. There is a bridge
leading to the upper level
submerged underwater. Under that
bridge is another Silver Star.
Collect it, and start heading
back the way you came towards
the starting point.

From where you started, keep
swimming backwards, then heading
underwater towards a small
section of raised land with a
Diamond Water Raiser. Near it is
another Silver Star. Swim to the
right of the Diamond and there
is another platform made of
bricks. This platform contains
your fourth Silver Star. From
this point, head back to start.

From start, keep swimming
downwards until you see a
Diamond Water Raiser all the way
on the bottom on the ground.
Activate it to lower the water
level to its lowest point. Now,
head back past start towards an
area with some bricks. Breakk
all of the bircks and one of
them will reveal the fifth
Silver Star.

Now, the Power Star will appear
in the Star Sphere high above
the world on a platform. Head
back some more towards an L
shaped platform. Stay between
the | and the _ to be warped to
the Cannon in the level. Hop
inside the cannon and shoot
towards the far left corner of
the highest level of the world.
From this point, head right over
some gaps to reach a Diamond
Water Raiser. This will raise
the water to its highest point.
Now, you should see a long line
of wooden platforms floating on
the surface of the water. From
where you are, head along those
platforms until you reach the
end, where you are a Backflip
away from the Star.

================================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Luigi, Wario
================================
Once again, the task of reaching
a shiny prize at 100 Coins
becomes annoying once again. It
isn't too bad, though. Wet-Dry
World is full of Coins like
Snowman's Land, and if you
collect everything in the uptown
area, there is no need to
actually head to downtown.
Unless you run out of Coins. No
big deal really. Enter the world
with the water level at its
lowest. Start off by killing the
Skeeter that always is near you
at the start of the level.
Collect his 3 Coins, then head
right to an area with a few
brick blocks. Smash them all
with Punches to reveal 3 Coins
that comes out of all of them.
Head back the way you came, and
onto the raised platform. Kill
the nearby Skeeter and collect
his 3 Coins. Nearby where you
killed him is a Blue Coin
Switch. Activate it, and collect
the 6 Blue Coins along the edge
of the platform.

Head over to the corner of the
level, where you found a secret
a few Stars while back. Move the
giant block until the shadow of
the ! Block can be seen, then
jump ontop of the box and break
the ! Block. 10 Coins will pop
out so quickly retrieve all of
them. Head over to the Diamond
Water Raiser closest to the
bottom of the level, and
activate it. Then climb up the
platform with the Amp circling
around it, and activate the
Diamond Water Raiser. Head onto
a nearby wooden long platform.
On it is another ! Block with 3
Coins in it. Hit the ! Switch to
make another path leading
upwards to another Diamond Water
Raiser. Hit it.

By now, you should have the
water level raised high enough
to reach the highest area of the
level. Swim over to the rised
black bridge like structure and
run up it to the top of the
level. Head over to a platform
an Amp is circling around
constantly. There are a circle
of 8 Coins around this platform
so grab them all. Jump up onto
the raised structre and break
the ! Block for an additional 10
Coins.

Head over to the cage that
contains the Star for Express
Elevator-Hurry Up!! and activate
the ! Switch to make a stairway
of blocks. Jump up on the blocks
to reach the top of that cage.
There is a ! Block here that
contains 10 Yellow Coins (Not to
mention a secret. You may have
all 5 now but don't bother with
that Star).

From the top of the cage, Long
Jump over to the little section
of platform sticking out of the
wall with a Goomba wearing a
Wario Cap. Get over there and
head to the right and activate
the Diamond Water Raiser. Kill
the Goomba for another Coin.
Head up to the left and jump up
the nearby platforms to reach a
platform with a Chuck-Ya on it.
When you have the chance to, run
behind him/her/it and pick it
up, then chuck it anywhere (Not
at the water because that ruins
the point of this) to make him
break, and to reveal 5 more
Coins.

From here, head onto the long
wooden platform to the Top O'
the Town Star and collect the
Coins along that platform, and
the spinning platform up ahead.
If you don't have 100 Coins yet,
head towards the cage the leads
all the way to downtown. Once in
Downtown, drain the water level,
then collect the Coin Circles in
front of the "Church" and get
all the Red Coins. There are
also many Coins on rooftops too.
This place holds an easy 100
Coins Star. Not too hard at all.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Head to the right of the Skeeter
painting and eventually you will
reach a tiny painting with some
Mushrooms on it. Tall Tall
Mountain is this next course.

--------------------------------
     ~V O.Course 12:Tall Tall Mo
--------------------------------
Welcome to Tall Tall Mountain!
This incredibly high peaking
mountain has an ton of secrets,
and a few pesky things to get in
your way. Falling from the
mountain doesn't rarely results
in your death. Rather, you will
land on a lower area of the
mountain usually and will have
to spend more time climbing back
to your previous location. Your
going to need to be fast and
have good jumping power, so
avoid using Wario unless you
need him for a specific Star.
Luigi shines brightly on this
course, so you probably want to
be him for most of these Stars.

=============================
Star 1-Scale the Mountain
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
In case you missed the intro,
Tall Tall Mountain is quite
literal to its name. It indeed
is a very tall mountain. You
will be traversing many gaps and
needing to go across very narrow
ledges, so let's get started.
Your first objective is to reach
the Star at the top of the
mountain. Not too hard, until
you see for yourself. Start off
by heading forwards towards a
trio of Goombas. Head along the
path past them then Jump over
the gap, and Long Jump over the
following gap.

Once you are past those gaps,
you will be near a group of
Mushrooms just floating
mysteriously in air. Wow. Some
Red Coins are on them, but for
now simply ignore them as you
don't have business with them
until much later. After you have
followed the curving path past
those mushrooms, you will be in
a small field with many holes in
the ground. Monty Moles
occasionally appear.

The Monty Moles will be annoying
and throw rocks at you, but they
are pretty easy to avoid. Head
past all the Monty Mole Holes
and past the nearby rock wall
with platforms. Some consider
using it a shortcut, but the
normal route is proven to be
just as fast. Continue along the
side of the mountain, and along
the path you will find a trio of
Bob-ombs all in sync with
eachother. Quickly run past them
all. Even if they spot you, a
little damage makes no
difference at all.

Now in this slightly larger
area, a Chuck-Ya is constantly
bubbling around like any jerk
would. Run past him continuing
to the left and forwards. A very
thin wooden bridge should be
visible. Walk across it to a
small platform on the other
side. Jump over to another
nearby platform, then a little
distance upwards towards a
higher ledge. The path has now
widened out for the better.

A waterfall is booming near you
in this section, along with a
Ukiki following you and an Fly
Guy spinning around. Pass them
all and hop onto the nearby log.
Start walking on it slowly
towards the right, but enough so
you don't fall off. This will
move the log over to another
position where more path is
available. Jump over to it.

There is a nearby pole. Fun.
Pound it into the ground and a
Mushroom will appear. Grab it to
become gigantic size. Start
running upwards on the path as
usual. Many bowling balls are
constanly rolling down this
black pathed section. Ram into
them all, you easily destroy
them. By the time you reach the
source of the falling bowling
balls, your Mushroom power will
probably have ended.

Continue by sliding down the
hill and to the left, where you
will be near a group of Goombas.
You can easily kill them all,
but it makes no difference in
your travels. Soon past them you
will come to a large gap. Long
Jump across it to the other
side. If you fall, hopefully you
didn't miss the waterfalls'
river, or your stuck right back
at start and will have to
traverse the mountain all over
again to reach this point. Be
careful to avoid missing. Once
here you should see a small
white cloud. Quickly run past
him, because if you are too
close to him for too long, he
will blow at you and you'll be
knocked back to the bottom of
the level and your hat will be
blown off if you weren't Yoshi.
Once you're past the cloud, hop
into some green vined area with
a few Goombas.

The green vines hinder your
Jumping power, so at the other
side, Double Jump a few times to
grab onto the ledge. Once you've
climbed up, continue along the
path. There is hardly anything
left to hinder you from reaching
the summit of the mountain. Just
1 more thin path and your done.
You will soon come up to a small
bridge near the waterfall, and
its beautiful source. Carefully
walk across this bridge, don't
fall off as that isn't a very
smart thing to do. Continue
along the path, and you will
finally be all the way at the
top of the mountain. The Power
Star is nearby, so grab it.

================================
Star 2-Mystery of the Monkey
Cage Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Start off by heading forwards
towards a trio of them thar
Goombas. Kill the Goombas. Head
along the path past them then
Jump over the gap, and Long Jump
over the following gap.

Once you are past those gaps,
you will be near a group of
Mushrooms just floating
mysteriously in air. Some Red
Coins are on them, but for now
simply ignore them as you don't
have business with them until a
later Star. After you have
followed the curving path past
those mushrooms, you will be in
a small field with many holes in
the ground. Monty Moles
occasionally appear.

The Monty Moles will be annoying
and throw rocks at you, but they
are pretty easy to avoid. Head
past all the Monty Mole Holes
and past the nearby rock wall
with platforms. Some consider
using it a shortcut, but stick
with the normal route. Continue
along the side of the mountain,
and along the path you will find
a trio of Bob-ombs all in sync
with eachother. Quickly run past
them all. Even if they spot you,
just keep running to avoid them.
Now in this slightly larger
area, a Chuck-Ya is constantly
bubbling around once again. Run
past him continuing to the left
and forwards. A very thin wooden
bridge should be visible. Walk
across it to a small platform on
the other side. Jump over to
another nearby platform, then a
little distance upwards towards
a higher ledge. The path has now
widened out for the better.

A waterfall is booming near you
in this section, along with a
Ukiki following you and an Fly
Guy spinning around. Pass them
all and hop onto the nearby log.
Don't grab the Ukiki or it will
steal your hat, and you will
have to catch it again to
retrieve your hat back. Start
walking on the log slowly
towards the right, but enough so
you don't fall off. This will
move the log over to another
position where more path is
available. Jump over to it.

There is a nearby pole. Like
before, pound it into the ground
and a mushroom will appear. Grab
it to become huge. Start running
upwards on the path as usual.
Many bowling balls are constanly
rolling down this black pathed
section. Ram into them all, you
easily destroy them. By the time
you reach the source of the
falling bowling balls, your
Mushroom power will probably
have ended.

Continue by sliding down the
hill and to the left, where you
will be near a group of Goombas.
You can easily kill them all,
but it makes no difference in
your travels. Soon past them you
will come to a large gap. Long
Jump across it to the other
side. If you fall, hopefully you
didn't miss the waterfalls'
river, or your stuck right back
at start. Be careful to avoid
missing the jump.

Once here you should see a small
white cloud. Quickly run past
him, because if you are too
close to him for too long, he
will blow at you and you'll be
knocked back to the bottom of
the level and your hat will be
blown off if you weren't Yoshi.
Once your past the cloud, hop
into some green vined area with
a few Goombas.

The green vines hinder your
Jumping power, so at the other
side, Double Jump a few times to
grab onto the ledge. Once you've
climbed up, continue along the
path. There is hardly anything
left to hinder you from reaching
the summit of the mountain. Just
1 more thin path and your done.
You will soon come up to a small
bridge near the waterfall, and
its beautiful source. Carefully
walk across this bridge, don't
fall off as that isn't a very
smart thing to do. Continue
along the path, and you will
finally be all the way at the
top of the mountain. Once at the
top, you will find another
Ukiki. He will try to avoid you,
so run around and soon enough
you will catch him. It's best to
use running dives when you make
him run into a corner, as it
usually results in an easy
catch.

You will be asked if you want to
let him go. Even though he is a
pesky monkey, let him go
anyways. He said he would give
you a nice prize, so, what is
there to lose? Follow him down
the mountain trail until he
stops. He will Jump onto the
nearby Monkey Cage you probably
saw earlier, and make it fall
and break. The Star will be
revealed, and will appear on a
platform to the right of the
waterfall below. Jump and grab
it.

================================
Star 3-Scary 'Shrooms, Red Coins
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Fortuantely, this is one of the
easier Red Coin challenges. Not
too much trouble actually. A bit
time consuming if you are
constantly falling down in the
second phase, but otherwise
pretty easy. Continue forwards
from where you start and head
past the trio of Goombas. Long
Jump over both gaps that are
infront of you.

You will now be infront of a
field of Mushrooms I told you
earilier these Mushrooms would
be of an importance eventually,
and here they are. Several of
these mushrooms contain red
coins on them. Jump onto the big
mushroom right near your point
right now, to earn Red Coin
number one. Jump to another
medium sized mushroom to gain
the second Red Coin. From there,
Jump to a really small Mushroom,
then to another tiny mushroom
right near it to pick up the
third Red Coin. Jump back to a
mushroom that's a bit bigger
then to a pretty large mushroom
after that one. That last
Mushroom has the fourth Red
Coin. From here, simply jump
back to the main path again.

Now that you have half of the
Red Coins in your possesion,
let's go get the other half.
Once you are back on the path,
continue along until you reach
the field of Monty Mole holes.
Head to the left, and get up
close to a ledge out of the
mountain wall.

Turn around from the ledge so
your back is facing away from
it. Do a Backward Somersult onto
the ledge platform. Turn around
once you land on it, and easily
hop up to a nearby ledge, The
fifth Red Coin is perched just
above this platform.

Hop down 1 ledge, and face the
small ledge where you just
earned the previous Red Coin. Do
another Backwards Somersult to a
higher platform, and it too has
a Red Coin.

Once you earn the sixth Red
Coin, pull off yet another
Backwards Somersult. Walk
forwards on this next ledge
until another higher ledge
becomes visible. Do another
Backwards Somersult onto it.
Now, you should land on a higher
ledge on the side of the
mountain. Do a Double Jump once
you are there, which is high
enough to grab onto the next
ledge nearby. Before doing so
you should have gotten the
seventh Red Coin, which couldn't
be missed. Double Jump to the
next higher ledge.

This is the final ledge you need
to visit. The side you are
trying to get up on is a bit
slanted, which isn't very good.
Quickly Backflip onto the
platform or Double Jump onto it
and grab the 8th and final Red
Coin. The Power Star will appear
on another large Mushroom far
below. Jump right off this ledge
to the Monty Mole field. Turn
the camera around to make it
face the Mushroom, then Long
Jump to it and claim the Star.

==============================
Star 4-Mysterious Mountainside
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
==============================
Well, I must go ahead and simply
state this is one of my favorite
Stars in the game, because the
main section is so much fun. I
really don't know why, but I'm
sure you will love it too. You
simply need to reach the area
with the big bad blowing cloud,
so if you are intrested in
simply finding out only how to
accomplish beating the Star,
skip down several paragraphs for
the slide section.

Start off by heading forwards
towards a trio of them thar
Goombas. Kill the Goombas. Head
along the path past them then
Jump over the gap, and Long Jump
over the following gap.

Once you are past those gaps,
you will be near a group of
Mushrooms just floating
mysteriously in air. Wow. Some
Red Coins are on them, but for
now simply ignore them as we
don't have business with them
until much later. After you have
followed the curving path past
those mushrooms, you will be in
a small field with many holes in
the ground. Monty Moles
occasionally appear.

The Monty Moles will be annoying
and throw rocks at you, but they
are pretty easy to avoid. Head
past all the Monty Mole Holes
and past the nearby rock wall
with platforms. Some consider
using it a shortcut, but the
normal route is proven to be
just as fast. Continue along the
side of the mountain, and along
the path you will find a trio of
Bob-ombs all in sync with
eachother. Quickly run past them
all. Ignore them if they start
following you.

Now in this slightly larger
area, a Chuck-Ya is constantly
bubbling around as usual. Run
past him continuing to the left
and forwards. A very thin wooden
bridge should be visible. Walk
across it to a small platform on
the other side. Jump over to
another nearby platform, then a
little distance upwards towards
a higher ledge. The path has now
widened out for the better.

A waterfall is booming near you
in this section, along with a
Ukiki following you and an Fly
Guy spinning around. Pass them
all and hop onto the nearby log.
Start walking on it slowly
towards the right, but enough so
you don't fall off. This will
move the log over to another
position where more path is
available. Jump over to it.

There is a nearby pole. You can
Ground Pound the pole into the
ground the recieve a Mushroom.
You become huge if you grab it,
so get it and run into the
falling bowling balls to collect
some extra lives after a short
time. By the time you reach the
source of the falling bowling
balls, your Mushroom power will
probably have ended.

Continue by sliding down the
hill and to the left, where you
will be near a group of Goombas.
You can easily kill them all,
but it makes no difference in
your travels. Soon past them you
will come to a large gap. Long
Jump across it to the other
side. If you fall, hopefully you
didn't miss the waterfalls'
river, or your stuck right back
at start if you fall. Don't miss
the jump.

Once here you should see a small
white cloud. Quickly run past
him, because if you are too
close to him for too long, he
will blow at you and you'll be
knocked back to the bottom of
the level and your hat will be
blown off if you weren't Yoshi.
Now, several feet infront of the
cloud is a string of Coins
leading into the wall. Look
familar? As with the shortcut in
Cool, Cool Mountain's Frosty
Slide, jump into the wall here
and you will be teleported to a
whole new area.

Welcome to Tall Tall Mountain's
Secret Slide! This slide is a
complete monster, and there are
plenty of oppertunities to
easily fall off the edge and out
of the world. Don't worry
though. If you jump right back
into the Tall Tall Mountain
picture after dying, you will
reappear back in the Secret
Slide. From where you start,
head into the beginning of the
slide and turn around to find a
1-Up. At least now if you fall
off you can keep recollecting
this 1-Up so you have infinite
chances.

Start off into the slide and
keep heading down. You will
quickly be picking up speed.
Eventually the track will make a
hard left turn then another hard
right turn. Think of it like a
bobsled track. After quickly
sliding down some more you will
see a trail of signs pointing
you to a wooden section of
track. Follow the signs. If you
continue along the normal white
slide path you will fall into a
skull head and die. How
thoughtful. You need to be going
fast as the wood is at a slant,
so you need speed to bounce onto
it.

The track will revert back to
its normal white color again.
Continue sliding along the
wonderous path, and soon enough
if your looking at the Touch
Screen Map you will notice 2
gaps pretty close to eachother.
Hold on to the Up button to
ensure you make it through.
Then, the slide will become
circular, but the path to the
left quickly ends. Hold right to
avoid being pulled to the left
then wait for the path to
straighten out again. Then its a
matter of getting through a few
turns to win. Slide into the
hole, or Jump when on solid
ground to be brought to the
Star. How lucky you are. Grab
the Power Star and finish the
level.

================================
Star 5-Blast to the Lonely
Mushroom Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Luigi
================================
Well, Luigi really makes this
too easy. Have you noticed a
mushroom placed really far away
from land? Did you also notice
that a Power Star was placed on
it? No cannons are needed to
reach it with Luigi! Abusing his
Backflip abilities couldn't make
this Star any easier.

Start off by heading forwards
towards a trio of them thar
Goombas. Kill the Goombas. Head
along the path past them then
Jump over the gap, and Long Jump
over the following gap.

Once you are past those gaps,
you will be near a group of
mushrooms just floating
mysteriously in air. Wow. Some
Red Coins are on them, but for
now simply ignore them as we
don't have business with them
until much later. After you have
followed the curving path past
those mushrooms, you will be in
a small field with many holes in
the ground. Monty Moles
occasionally appear here.

The Monty Moles will be annoying
and throw rocks at you, but they
are pretty easy to avoid. Head
past all the Monty Mole Holes
and past the nearby rock wall
with platforms. Some consider
using it a shortcut, but the
normal route is proven to be
just as fast. Continue along the
side of the mountain, and along
the path you will find a trio of
Bob-ombs all in sync with
eachother. Quickly run past them
all. Ignore their silly antics
if they follow you. Now in this
slightly larger area, a Chuck-Ya
is constantly bubbling around
like normal. Run past him
continuing to the left and
forwards. A very thin wooden
bridge should be visible. Walk
across it to a small platform on
the other side. Jump over to
another nearby platform, then a
little distance upwards towards
a higher ledge. The path has now
widened out for the better.

Now, look towards the Lonely
Mushroom far in the distance.
See it? Can't really miss it.
Face away from it and make a
Backflip. Steer Luigi onto the
Mushroom, then grab the Star.
With any other character, get a
running start on the rolling log
(but don't make it move from its
original spot), then make a long
jump at the end. You will fly
down to the mushroom. There's
also a Wing Cap on the level you
can use with Mario to reach this
Star, or hell, use the cannon.
The Bob-omb Buddy is on a
floating island near the Ukiki
and Fly Guy within jumping
reach, and the cannon is near
the bottom of the world, hidden
to find. I think a warp is
needed to reach it, or you can
fall off a ledge to reach it as
well.

================================
Star 6-5 Secrets of the Mountain
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Mario needed
================================
As if a Red Coin hunt just isn't
enough for us, you have the
daunting task of reaching your
necks out to reach another five
secrets. Unfortunately for you
in this course, some looking
around is gonna end up with a
load of nothing. All five
secrets are inside a Coin circle
in the middle of nothing. They
are simply floating off course
above the pit of death. So,
since Long Jumping wouldn't get
you anywhere, I think its right
Mario had his time to shine
again. His Wing Cap is needed,
of course.

If you don't start off as Mario,
that isn't a big deal. There is
a Mario Cap pretty close to the
summit of the mountain. Start
off by turning around and facing
a tree that lies behind you.
Jump to the top of it to disturb
another owl. Grab onto him and
ride him up to the very top of
Tall Tall Mountain and drop off.
If you aren't Mario, follow the
path down to a Goomba with the
Cap, then return to the summit.

Anyways, if you are flying high
above the summit when holding
onto the owl, its best to circle
around the summit to lower the
owl, until your sure you won't
overpass it when falling off.
Now, as Mario, hit the ? Red
Block and grab the Wings for the
Wing Cap.

Now, if you skipped the intro,
there are 5 clusters of floating
Coin circles out in the open
circling the summit of the
mountain. The Coin in the middle
of each one is a Secret Coin.
So, with the Wing Cap aim for a
Coin clusters and Triple Jump.

Trust me on this fact, this
isn't a very fun Star at all.
All 5 Coin circles are placed at
the same height, so that means
its impossible to collect all
five on one run around the
mountain, so don't even bother
trying it. After your first
takeoff, head right for any Coin
cluster, aiming and changing
your height accordingly so you
reach the Coin. After collecting
the first Secret, turn around
and land back at the summit of
the mountain. Grab another Wing
Cap and Triple Jump into the air
and fly towards another Coin
cluster with a Secret you
haven't earned yet. The rest of
this level pretty much plays in
this exact same fashion. Get a
Secret, return to the summit of
the mountain, grab another Wing
Cap, get another Secret. Once
you have earned all 5 Secrets
around the mountain, the Power
Star will appear near the ? Red
Block, so simply fly from your
current position and easily
reach it.

================================
Star 7-Breathtaking View From
the Bridge Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
needed
================================
You may have noticed among trips
to the summit of the tall
mountain the very top of the
waterfall, and the fact there is
a ledge leading to a small
alcove inside it. Indeed, as
your final Star of this world,
the Star involves that hidden
factor, and the Black Brick
behind it. You know what that
means. Wario is needed for this
mission. Don't worry though
about not being him at the
beginning. You will be able to
pick up one of his Caps near the
top summit of the mountain,
which is where you are going
anyways. Turn around from where
you start and climb up to the
top of the nearby tree that is
there to make the kind owl
appear once again. Grab onto his
legs as you ride him up to the
top of the mountain. Once you
reach the top, let go of him as
you hopefully didn't miss the
summit (You will probably die as
a result if you do miss). The
Power Star, as I already
mentioned, isn't at the summit.
Start climbing down it.

There is a Wario Cap nearby the
summit, so grab it if you aren't
Wario. Now, continue following
the path down the mountain
slightly until you reach a small
bridge that extends a little
distance from the waterfall,
with 5 Coins on it. Turn the
camera around so it faces the
waterfall, and look for a pretty
thin bridge jutting out near the
waterfall. Walk onto it, but be
careful to not fall off.

The bridge simply lasts a few
steps when your Wario. It leads
you into a small alcove inside
the waterfall. There is a Black
Brick in this room. Incase this
is not obvious to you already,
break the block. Another Power
Star will appear for your
taking.

===========================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===========================
Another 100 Coins collecting
task. I know I know, you are all
sick and tired of doing this
lame type of Star. Tall Tall
Mountain has 105-ish Coins
without the neccesity of heading
into the Mysterious
Mountainside. Good thing too. If
you get your 100th Coin on that
slide, no friggin way your gonna
be able to reach the Star,
unless the Star appears on one
of the few flat areas of the
slide. Simple geomerty and speed
really. Worst of all, there is a
metal gate near the Mysterious
Mountainside Star. If you finish
the course you will be trapped
in the cage so you are stuck
there, forcing you to restart
the 100 Coin Star attempt.
Anyways, you are going to have
to venture over death many times
during this Star, and if you
die, feel free to throw your DS
at the closest wall and curse in
anger. I do that too. Mario is
able to collect nearly
everything, so it is best to
start out as him. His Cap is
near the top of the mountain. If
you forgot how to get there,
just jump onto the top of the
tree in the beginning and climb
to the top. Use the owl to reach
the summit with ease.

As you start off your mountain
trek, head to the right and down
the slope instead of up the
slope with the trio of Goombas.
Eventually you will come to the
bottom of the slope and reach
the wall of a gap. There is a
circle of Coins nearby, so
collect all 8 of them. Also, a
Crazy Box is here, but it is
highly likely to bounce you
right off the level, so I advise
you not to take the box. Risk it
if you want for 5 more coins.
Head back up the mountain slope
you just came from, back to
where you started.

Once you are back on the main
path of the world, continue
heading forwards until you get
close to the gap. The trio of
Goombas you saw before are just
waddling around here, so kill
them all and take the 3 Coins
that they give out kindly. Head
forward and Long Jump over the
gap. Then Long Jump over the
next gap that shortly follows.
The Scary 'Shrooms are infront
of you now. Jump ontop of the
first one and collect the Red
Coin on it. Nearby this mushroom
is another mushroom with another
Red Coin so collect that as
well. Head over the next few
small and tiny mushrooms
carefully and collect the Red
Coin on the smallest one, then
jump over a few more to get the
fourth Red Coin on a medium
sized mushroom. By now, you
should have over 20 Coins. Jump
back to solid land.

Head along on the path
continuing to the left.
Eventually you will come upon
the area with a ton of Monty
Mole Holes. Avoid those damned
rock throwing moles and head to
the left. You should see a ledge
shortly to the left. Jump up
ontop of it. You will see
another Red Coin here. Double
Jump or Backflip onto the next
ledge, and take the Red Coin
there. Jump across the
precarious platforms using
Backflips mostly to get to the
top section. Head to the left
for another Red Coin. Head onto
the green mesh grating for the
last Red Coin. The Red Coin Star
will appear, but we don't need
it. Head back carefully to the
bottom area with the Monty
Mole's. Head forwards and to the
left once you are back down
there.

Once you are past all of the
Monty Mole's, you will pass
another corner, and 3 Bob-ombs
will be walking around on the
ground. Pick them up and throw
them all at the wall for them
all to explode. Take the single
Coin they each spit out after
their death. Continue along the
path around the next corner
until a Chuck-Ya is in view,
circling around the platform as
the little jerk always does.
Stand a little ways away from
him, then when he comes to try
and grab you, Backflip over him,
then grab him from behind and
chuck him to the side, then
collect the 5 Yellow Coins that
pop out once he goes explodes on
the ground.

After collecting his Coins, head
continually to the left and over
the very narrow bridge. There
are 5 Coins on this bridge so
grab them all. Jump over to the
next ledge, then jump up the
small hill to the middle portion
of the mountain. A Ukiki and a
Fly Guy are in this section.
Kill the Fly Guy with a Ground
Pound and collect the 2 Coins
that come out of him. After
that, jump onto the giant log
and run to the right (Not too
much, however) to make the log
start rolling to the left. Once
you are close enough, jump over
to the next ledge.

Run around the log several times
to make five coins appear.
Ground Pound the log into the
ground. A Mushroom will soon
appear. Grab the Mushroom to
grow super sized! Bulldoze your
way through this next section,
easily killing any bowling balls
along the way. Pass the next
corner, head up the bowling
alley, slide down the hill and
you will see another trio of
Goombas. When you are
supersized, and plow over
Goombas, they each give 2 Coins
instead of one. Easily kill them
all for another 6 Coins. By this
time you should have shrunken
back again. Keep heading forward
until you reach the large gap by
the waterfall. Long Jump your
way across it, then continue
along the path and past the
blowing Lakitu cloud. Nearby are
a trail of Coins leading inside
the Mysterious Mountainside.
Collect the Coins, but don't
enter the mountainside slide.
Head along the path some more
until you pass over a green
grass section with 4 Goombas.
Because your jumping is hindered
in this section, Punch all 4
Goombas for their Coins. Get out
of the thick underbrush and
continue along the path. There
will soon be a thin bridge
leading across the waterfall,
with 5 Coins on it. DON'T GET
THE COINS! You want to save them
for last to make the ending of
the Star simple. Jump over the 5
Coins and jump to the next
ledge. Back flip up for the next
5 Coins, then continue to the
top of the mountain.

As Mario, a ? Red Block will be
waiting here. Grab it for the
Wings to fall. Incase you don't
remember, 5 Coins circles, each
with 9 Coins in them are around
the top of the mountain. Triple
Jump into flight and circle the
top of the mountain for about 15
seconds and collect as many
Coins as you can (After about 15
seconds you will be too low to
get anymore Coins). Fly back to
the summit of the mountain and
get another Wings. Repeat this
process. Whatever you do, don't
get the 100th Coin while flying.
Just don't. Stop collecting the
Coins in the circles when you
have 95-99 Coins, and guess what
now. Head back down the mountain
and to the bridge overlooking
the beautiful waterfall. There
are the last 5 Coins, so collect
them. That's every Coin in the
world I covered for the most
part. You can always risk
heading to the mountainside
slide for the remaining few
Coins if you can't find anymore.
Hard time getting the Star,
though. Good luck! Also, if the
Star appears in the air because
you got the last coin from a
coin ring, then you can fly into
the Star and still collect it.
You will die before the game
says you got it, however. Just
remember to save when you get
thrown out of the level. If you
get a game over, though, from
doing this, you won't get to
keep the Star. Make sure you
have a life to spare if you need
to get the Star and suicide.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
After the completion of Tall
Tall Mountain, you have probably
earned at least 50 Stars by now,
giving you access to the Third
Floor of the Castle. However,
there is still one more course
left on the Second Floor, so
let's explore it. Look for a
door that isn't indented into
the wall (Ala the Snowman's Land
door). That door leads to a room
with 3 paintings, all of a small
and large Goomba. This is the
Tiny-Huge Island entrance. The
middle picture is a fake, it
contains nothing. If you enter
the left painting, the world
will be very tiny as you go
through it. Entering the
gigantic right painting makes
the world seem like your an ant,
as even Goombas tower over you.
Some fancy footwork on your part
is gonna be neccessary for World
13!

--------------------------------
~V P.Course 13:Tiny-Huge Island~
--------------------------------
Ah, now this is an awesome
world. One of the most annoying,
but a cool world with an awesome
concept. As stated earlier,
enter the left painting makes
the world seem tiny under your
footsteps while entering the
larger right painting makes you
seem like an ant. However, there
are Warp Pipes scattered
throughout Tiny-Huge Island.
Entering one while tiny makes
you huge, and vice versa. Fancy
footwork and constant pipe
hopping make this a puzzle
solving world.

================================
Star 1-Pluck the Pirhana Flower
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Mario, Wario, Luigi
================================
As you enter Tiny-Huge Island,
make sure to enter through the
left painting into Tiny Island.
This is the easiest path to the
Star unless you wanna spend an
extra 10 minutes or so go
through into Tiny Island. When
you start, ignore the Goombas.
They can't even harm you
(Technically they can, but no
damage dealt). Anyways, look
towards the left and you should
see a few islands sticking out
of the water. Jump onto the
nearby one with a tree on it.
Climb to the top of the tree and
do a handstand on it. Then, aim
yourself at the next island,
higher out of the water with a
Warp Pipe on it. Land on the
island, then jump inside the
Pipe.

After Jumping into the Warp
Pipe, you will be spit back out
in like, another world, or
something to that extent. Your
on Huge Island now, and damn are
those there Pirhana Plants out
to get you now! How funny. For a
Pirhana Plant that is so damn
tall, a single Punch will knock
them out for good. The Star is
located here, but in order to
recive it we need to kill all
five Pirhana Plants that infest
this large Island. From where
you exit out of the Pipe, a
Pirhana Plant should suddenly
spring up towards the left. Kill
it with a Punch. If you were
close enough, to the right on
the edge of the island is
another large Pirhana Plant.
Knock him out with a Punch too.
Now, head right towards the
other corner of the island. A
third Pirhana Plant will appear,
so another Punch will do the
trick. Head a little bit more to
the right, and directly across
from the place the first Pirhana
Plant you killed was to find
another Pirhana Plant. Another
Punch for him and he's down. The
fifth and final Pirhana Plant
lies behind the Warp Pipe. Get
near him and Punch him, and now
that everyone, except for you,
is dead, the Power Star will
appear near the Warp Pipe. Go
grab it. As a little note, if
you fall off the island by
accident you should simply drown
in the water. It takes too long
to get back to the spot so don't
even bother wasting your time
doing so.

================================
Star 2-To the Tip Top of Huge
Island Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
================================
Wonderful. Normally, this should
be the first Star of the world
if you follow the basic concept
of most other worlds. But that
aside, your going to need to be
tiny to claim the Star, but
actually getting to the top is
faster while in Tiny Island. So,
start off by going through the
left painting to be huge. Once
you are dropped onto the small
island with several Goombas,
head over to the middle island
with the tree. Do the same as
before with the previous Star.
Handstand over to the island
with the Warp Pipe. Don't go
into the Pipe though. Nearby on
a lower ledge near the Pipe is a
red ! Switch. Activate it for
some wooden platforms to appear.
Walk across them until some
ledges a bit higher on the
mountain appear. Double Jump up
to them, and avoid the bowling
balls and keep making your way
to the right on these ledges.
Soon enough a Warp Pipe will be
in view. Jump in it.

You will now be back on Huge
Island. As your tiny character,
the Goombas tower over you.
Besides the fact they hurt you a
lot, you are pretty close to the
Star the way it is. Nearby you
should see some ledges hanging
out of the wall and the ground.
They are a bit hard to see, but
can be found by looking upwards,
though. Double Jump or Backflip
up to them. On another platform
higher than the one you are
currently on, a happy Chuck-Ya
is moving back and forth looking
for another victim for its evil
hands. When Chuck-Ya's back is
facing away from you, that is
the best time to Backflip up to
the last and higher ledge and
make a quick dash for the nearby
wooden bridge just barely
jutting out of the wall. Run
across it and follow the
mountain path towards the left,
until you reach a steep slope
going upwards. At the top is a !
Box, with your next Power Star
inside.

================================
Star 3-Rematch with Koopa the
Quick Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
needed
================================
Ah, what a fun day at the races.
Of course you will be
participating, however. Koopa
the Quick is furious at his
previous loss, and is ready to
try and take you on, with his
special Koopa Mach 2 shoes. On
another note, this is Koopa the
Quick's homeland, so you'd think
he would be pretty tough right?
He has been toned down a bit
from the original Super Mario
64, so he isn't that hard to
beat. Anyways, start off by
entring the small painting to be
on Tiny Island. From where you
start off, Jump onto the nearby
island, then jump again to the
higher island right near it.
Avoid the Pirhana Plant's fire
(Falling off into death here is
easy) and activate the ! Red
Switch nearby. Walk across the
platforms until you can Double
Jump to reach a nearby ledge
with passing bowling balls.
Climb up it, and walk right.
When you reach a Warp Pipe, hop
in it.

After you have Jumped into the
Warp Pipe, you will be
transported to Huge Island, so
don't freak out again at them
there Goombas. Head right from
the Warp Pipe and down a small
hill, near the bowling ball
creator. Follow the path
opposite where the bowling balls
are falling. Stay in this path,
as it gradually dips down. There
are some Coins along this path,
so collect them to replenish any
lost health. At the end you will
be in a bigger open field like
area. A large Goomba is trapped
by a fence, so don't worry about
him. Nearby that Goomba, though,
is Koopa the Quick. As Mario,
talk to him to start the race.

The race has offcially begun!
You have roughly 23 seconds to
make it to a desolate location
you haven't been to yet unless
you took the normal route to get
here, but that isn't of any
concern. It is the matter of not
dying along the way there.
Anyways, start off by running
through the fenced Goomba's
area, as this is a shortcut
Koopa the Quick doesn't think
about. The mountain path will
turn to the right, and start
climbing upwards. Keep running
as fast as you can until you
reach the bowling ball creator.
Now, here comes the harder part
of the race course. There are
now many ledges, going downwards
that is! However, many, many
bowling balls are pounding down
this path at the same time. Long
Jump from the top of these
ledges to gain a ton of
distance. Keep running downwards
making sure to avoid the evil
bowling balls. Soon enough you
will reach a windy bridge. The
wind will try to push you off as
you cross it. The wind flows
from left to right (If the
camera is behind you, that's the
direction). Quickly cross the
bridge and in this smaller
field, the Flagpole rests. Reach
it to stop the timer. Then,
simply wait a few seconds for
Koopa the Quick to come and hand
over the Star.

=============================
Star 4-Klepto the Vulture
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
I'm sure you all remember this
pest from Shifting Sands Land.
Unfortunately, he has escaped
somehow (Or is that a cousin
with the same name?) and once
again holds a Power Star firmly
in his tallons. In order to
locate Klepto, you need to be on
Tiny Island, so start off by
using the left painting to make
you huge. Start off like you do
everytime you are big. Jump to
the nearby island to the left of
the starting point. From there,
another Island is clearly
visible. Jump to that one next,
then activate the nearby !
Switch. Several platforms form
nearby, so run across them until
your able to jump up and grab
the above ledge on the side of
the mountain. Pull yourself up
and start heading towards the
right. Get to the Warp Pipe area
and simply stay there.

Boring, yes, but simple, I must
agree. You just gotta sit here
patiently. Why? It's how you
claim this Star. There are
roughly four different locations
Klepto circles around. This
location happens to be one of
them. When he comes near you, he
will circle around you a few
times then fly off again.
Quickly jump up and bump him in
mid-air. Like you did in
Shifting Sands Land, this will
have him release the Star.

The Star will proceed to land in
the middle of absolutely
nowhere, on a floating island
above an empty abyss. Smashing.
From where you are, head back
towards the ledge with falling
Bowling Balls. This is a bit
tricky, and may result in death,
but its not a hard feat doing
the above again. Zoom out the
camera until you can see land
below you. Position yourself
correctly and jump down there,
near the small island with a
Warp Pipe. Simply activate the
nearby ! Switch on the island.
Run across the platforms to the
island, and claim the Star.

=============================
Star 5-Wiggler's Red Coins
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Well, I'm sure most of you
playing this game are familar
with the kind Wiggler. You
aren't going to be fighting him
(That's for the next Star!) but
his house contains another set
of 8 Red Coins. Shall we get
started on this hunt?

For this Star, you will actually
need to start off small, so take
the right and big painting in
the Castle to wind up on Huge
Island. From where you start,
walk through the nearby hole in
the wall. On the other side get
into the water and begin
swimming.

Keep on swimming quickly, as it
naturally saves time. Eventually
on your left you will see a
large beach on a hill. Swim over
to the beach and land on it.
Kill the annoying Lakitu and Fly
Guy if you want to if the annoy
the piss out of you. Also nearby
those enemies is a Koopa Troopa,
the last one you'll ever find in
the game (One was in Bob-omb
Battlefield, but they are alive
again once you exit the world).
Knock him out of his shell and
get on it to start riding it.
From where you are, don't go
into the water. Jump the Shell
up the right side of the
mountain's sandy hill. Once you
reach the top wall, turn right.

Continue going up this hill, and
if you are ever slowed down for
whatever reason, keep Jumping on
the shell to gain speed and
moving upwards. Keep making your
way to the right slightly, and
you will eventually come to a
flat small grassy area with a
large Goomba and a signpost on
it. Note:If all you see is a
Goomba, you in the wrong area.
Continue to head up the
mountain. Anyways, hop off your
shell by pushing R.

Once you are in the right place,
you should see a nearby long
wooden bridge extending from
where you are on the grassy
field to a small and tiny hole
inside the mountain's wall. Run
across the pathway, or walk of
you feel like it, and run inside
the hole. If you want to you can
also simply ride the Shell
across the wooden bridge, and
then inside the hole. However,
this is much more difficult, and
with a thin walkway your likely
to fall off. Just walk into the
hole.

Once your inside the hole you
will be in a dank cave now. Look
above you-that indeed is
Wiggler, running around. He
can't do anything right now but
make an annoying walking noise,
so simply ignore him. Jump over
to the first platform (Did I
mention? There is a bottomless
pit below you) and grab the
first Red Coin.

And from here on out to the 6th
Red Coin, there are just several
platforms all within a very
short distance of eachother. I
simply don't need to tell you
how to jump well at this point
of the game, so I am going leave
that job up to you. All the
platforms are in a simple order,
and you can't really skip any.
The camera angles are a bit
crappy in here, but that isn't a
big deal.

Once Red Coin number six has
been found, 2 large platforms
will be near you. One infront
and one to the right. Jump to
the right one first, as it
contains another Red Coin for
you. Then Jump back to the
previous platform, and simply
take the platform that lies
infront of you. The Red Coin
here lies in plain view so you
can't miss it. After you have
all 8 Red Coins, the Star will
appear on a platform a little
distance away, but pretty high.
In order to reach it, do a
Backflip so you are holding onto
the wire mesh grating (If you
can't Backflip that high, then
get onto the nearby ! Red Block
then Backflip to the mesh wire).
Simply make your way over to the
Power Star and drop onto it.

=============================
Star 6-Make Wiggler Squirm
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
We saw kind Wiggler in the
previous Star, but this time
around you actually get to fight
the stupid worm! Start off by
heading into the left painting
to be on Tiny Island. Start off
as usual, using the only path
possible by jumping to the
nearby island with a tree on it.
Climb up the tree to the top of
it, and do a Handstand. Then,
turn around so your facing the
mountain, then jump all the way
over to it. If your not in the
right spot, head over a little
bit near the top of the mountain
with a Warp Pipe nearby. Stand
close to the edge of the
mountain, behind the Warp Pipe,
and do a Backwards Somesault
onto the top of the mountain.
Its nothing but a tiny pool of
water, but besides from that
fact, simply do a Ground Pound.
This will puncture a hole in the
floor and flood out the water,
revealing a hole. You, naturaly,
can't fit inside it. But, I'm-a
thinking you just might know how
to easily get inside. Jump off
from the peak of the mountain
towards the small area where the
bowling balls are created. From
there, jump right inside the
Warp Pipe.

Once you hop out of the Warp
Pipe in the second dimension,
you will be on Huge Island like
you've been to in the past. Your
objective now is to reach the
very tip top of the mountain.
Shouldn't be too hard of a task
to accomplish. From where you
are, head forwards towards the
tall ledges. Jump up the two
ledges that are here. Be careful
of the Chuck-Ya that astrides
atop the upper ledge, as he can
easily chuck you right off of
the mountain, and that is pretty
damned bad. Nearby Chuck-Ya's
area is a large Wooden Bridge.
Yep, same one you used in the
second Star. Run across it, then
up the steep hill to the very
top of the mountain. A pool once
was here, but now there is just
a hole. Jump into it.

You will now fall right into
Wiggler's home. Unfortuantely,
you soaked the poor critters'
home (Oddly enough...its 1 tiny
grass platform and wire mesh.
How is everything all "soaking
wet"?). He is a tad pissed off
and will engage you in combat!
He will slowly make his way
around the room. All you have to
do is jump onto his head. May
not be that hard, but touching
Wiggler results in you losing 3
bars of health, and that quickly
adds up to death. There are 3
strings of 5 Coins around the
room. Get them only when
neccessary, unless you are going
for the 100 Coin Star. After you
hit him once, he will charge
around the room a tad faster
now. Jump on his head again, and
he will turn all red (Easter egg
anyone?) and will very angrily
charge around the room (Ala
Super Mario Sunshine style).
It's a bit tough, but land
another foot on his head, and he
will give up this Power Star.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star of the Island
Difficulty:*/***** Recommended
Character:Mario or Yoshi
================================
It is highly reccomended that
Wario is not used for this Star.
Although it is possible to beat
it with any character, Wario is
going have the hardest time, so
spare yourself a little agony
and don't bother with him. Now,
you haven't seen a Switch Star
for some time have you, eh?
Plenty of time for this one
though, but you don't really
need it.

For this Star, you will actually
need to start off small, so take
the right and very big painting
in the Castle to wind up on Huge
Island. From where you start,
walk through the nearby hole in
the wall. On the other side get
into the water and begin
swimming.

Keep on swimming quickly, as it
naturally saves time. Eventually
on your left you will see a
large beach on a hill. Swim over
to the beach and land on it.
Kill the annoying Lakitu and Fly
Guy if you want to if the annoy
the piss out of you. Also nearby
those enemies is a Koopa Troopa.
Knock him out of his shell and
get on it to start riding it.
From where you are, don't go
into the water. Jump the Shell
up the right side of the
mountain's sandy hill. Once you
reach the top wall, turn right.

Continue going up this hill, and
if you are ever slowed down for
whatever reason, keep Jumping on
the shell to gain speed and
moving upwards. Keep making your
way to the right slightly, and
you will eventually come to a
flat small grassy area with a
large Goomba and a signpost on
it. Note:If all you see is a
Goomba, you in the wrong area.
Continue to head up the
mountain. Anyways, hop off your
shell by pushing R.

Once you are in the right place,
you should see a nearby long
wooden bridge extending from
where you are on the grassy
field to a small and tiny hole
inside the mountain's wall. Run
across the pathway, or walk of
you feel like it, and run inside
the hole. If you want to you can
also simply ride the Shell
across the wooden bridge, and
then inside the hole. However,
this is much more difficult, and
with a thin walkway your likely
to fall off. Just walk into the
hole.

Once your inside the hole you
will be in a dank cave now.
Wiggler is above you, but he
can't do anything so ignore him.
Head over to the platform
infront of you, and continue
Jumping around the series of
well thought out platforms until
you reach a much larger platform
that contains a Blue Coin
Switch. Also, them there Red
Coins can be ignored, so stay
away from them as they may cause
death. The Star Switch is also
on this platform.

As if it weren't obvious enough,
activate the Star Switch. The
Star will appear on top of a
pillar not too far away. It's
not over a bottomless pit,
fortuantely, so don't worry
about falling. When you activate
the Switch, turn around and face
the general direction the Power
Star is in. Start running
towards it, then make a Double
Jump so you land on top of
another pillar that lies a few
feet away from the Power Star.
Once there, simply jump right
over to the other nearby pillar
and grab the Star from the Star
Sphere. If you happen to fall,
you'll be on another large
platform. Manuver the camera
around a little so you can see
the platform with the Star
Switch, to try again.

=============================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Once again, you are on the chase
for 100 more Coins hidden around
the level. Tiny-Huge Island has
its secrets for Coins, and we
are going need to exploit them
all to reach 100. Start off by
entering the large painting,
making you tiny. The large
Goombas? Couldn't be happier
that they are huge. When you
Ground Pound a huge Goomba, it
doesn't spit out 1 or 2 Coins.
But rather a Blue Coin. This
happens for every large Goomba.
Sweet right? Start off by Ground
Pounding all 3 Goombas that are
near you from the start for 15
quick Coins. Head near the hole
in the wall and pound the pole
into the ground. Collect the
Coins that pop onto land
quickly, then jump into the
water if any fall in there and
collect them. After that, head
through the hole in the wall and
swim to the sandy beach.

Once you have made it to the
sandy beach, head to the top of
it and collect the 2 Coins up
there. Kill the nearby Fly Guy
for 2 more Coins, then kill the
pesty Lakitu for another 5
Coins. With Yoshi, you can
constantly eat and kill Spinies
(The things Lakitu throws at
you) for a Coin. Wanna wait for
a while? You can collect
infinite coins this way if you
have the patience. Heh, anyways,
nearby where Lakitu was on the
beach should be a Koopa Troopa.
Kill him after knocking him out
of his shell and take his Blue
Coin. Get on the Shell, and surf
over to the nearby shoreline
with the cannon, or cannon cover
if you haven't unlocked it yet.
Kill the Fly Guy as he is a big
pain for 2 Coins, then kill the
nearby large Goomba for another
Blue Coin.

Now that you have recieved the
large Goomba's Blue Coin, you
are ready to climb higher in the
mountain. Head forwards and you
should see the gap infront of
you right? Get back a little
ways, then start running towards
it. Once you are close to it do
a Long Jump to the floating
platform a little distance
aways. If you are Wario, get a
different Cap. Wario's Long Jump
isn't enough to clear the gap.
You don't want die right now,
that's annoying and frustrating.
Once you are on the floating
platform head forwards and fall
off the platform. The wind gusts
will start flowing you upwards
so aim yourself for the ledge
that is sticking out of the
wall. Its hard to miss,
honestly.

Connected to the platform you
are on, and slightly lodged in
the wall is a very narrow wooden
plank for a platform, with 5
Yellow Coins on it connected to
more land. Carefully cross it,
mainly by hugging the wall for
safety. Once you reach the other
side a large Goomba will be near
you. Ground Pound him for a Blue
Coin.

Head to the left now and make
your way across another wooden
bridge. Its slightly wider this
time around, but it has no walls
near it, not to mention a strong
wind gust is blowing on the
bridge so you have to avoid
plowing off the left side of it.
After you cross the windy valley
you will see a series of ledges
getting progressively higher and
higher. Bowling balls are
plowing down these ledges, so
stick to the wall and you will
avoid everything. Keep heading
to the top most ledge and keep
following the path. You will see
a green Warp Pipe, but you have
no business with it yet. Head
past the bowling ball creator
and follow the path southern.
You will see 4 Coins lying on
the ground. Collect them and
keep going. Soon you will come
to a small field with 3 more
large Goombas. Do a Ground Pound
on each of the Goombas to
recieve a Blue Coin. After that
head back towards the green Warp
Pipe and jump inside it.

Once you exit the Warp Pipe, you
will rule as a giant on Tiny
Island. You need to head back to
where you were before so head
down the small now slope near
the bowling ball creator and
head towards the small fence you
saw before. In the semi-large
open field, a Koopa will be
there, but he's pathetically
tiny. Heh. Kill him with a
simple jump and take away the
Blue Coin he leaves behind.

Head back the way you came
towards the green Warp Pipe
again, up the slope and past the
bowling ball creator. Jump up
the tiny ledges avoiding the
green Warp Pipe for now. A
Goomba is at the top, stomp on
him for a Coin. Head along the
edge of the mountain carefully.
There are 5 Coins placed on this
ledge.

Now, skip this step if you
already unlocked the cannon.
Head back to the spot where the
cannon is when you are tiny.
Along the lake's shoreline. The
cannon is too tiny for you to
squeeze into, but a normal sized
Bob-omb Buddy will be there
waiting. Talk to it to activate
the cannon. You won't see the
animation because it's too tiny.

As your large character still,
head for the sandy beach. You
are so big you can easily jump
up to the land nearby. Do so
(The land on the left that is)
and you will be in that small
open field we were in a while
ago. Head up the slope and past
the bowling ball creator. Jump
inside the green Warp Pipe.

Head up the now large ledges
that are close to you. At the
top is an annoying Chuck-Ya. If
you are Yoshi, don't bother with
this. If your not, run behind
him and pick him up, then throw
him towards the wall of the
mountain to have him break into
5 Coins. Collect them all. Head
onto the small wooden bridge
close to you for another 5
Coins.

Now from your current position
on the high point of the tall
mountain, look towards the sandy
beach a long ways down. Pretty
far isn't it? Jump. That's
right. Jump off of the mountain
and start falling towards the
sandy beach. Don't worry about a
Ground Pound because you'll just
fall into the sand, which won't
hurt at all. Aiming for the
water isn't a great idea because
you may land too close to Bubba
and risk dying. Not good at all.
Start to swim towards the
shoreline with the cannon, then
once you are on it hop inside
the cannon. Once inside the
cannon aim towards the right for
a tree, then aim north 1 full
crosshair. Shoot and you will
hopefully crash into the
mountain wall or land on a tree.
Once there, Ground Pound a
nearby large Goomba for a Blue
Coin.

(If you happened to defeat the
Goomba while being shot out of
the cannon he would have given
up the Blue Coin that way as
well. Cool and funny isn't it?).
Near where you killed the Goomba
and the tree is a small wooden
path. Walk along this path
collecting the Coins along the
way as well until you enter a
hole. In Wiggler's cavern, jump
from precarious platform to
precarious platform, collecting
the Red Coins as you go along.
They will continue to add to
your total, and by now you might
have 100 Coins. Near a flame
creator and another Red Coin is
a Blue Coin Switch. Activate it
for 2 Blue Coins. If you don't
have 100 Coins, head back along
the path and exit the cavern.

If you still don't have 100
coins yet, there is yet one more
way to get some more coins and
the Star if your total is over
85. After exiting the cavern
make your way around the
mountain by swimming towards the
cannon shoreline, jumping across
the gap then using the updraft
of wind to reach the higher
area, then run across the windy
bridge and up the large cliffs
and avoid bowling balls until
you finally reach a green Warp
Pipe. Jump inside to turn giant
and the course tiny again. Head
along the ledges and do a
Backflip to reach the top of the
mountain. Do a Ground Pound to
drain the pool of water, then
jump back down into the green
Warp Pipe to turn the course
huge and you tiny once more.
Head up the now large ledges and
past Chuck-Ya (Unless he is
already dead) and head along the
wooden bridge. Head up the steep
hill to the very top of the
mountain, then fall into the
hole there to be in Wiggler's
Home. There are some sccattered
Coins in here. You must have
gotten the Star by now. If not,
then head back to the Lakitu on
Tiny Island as Yoshi, if you
didn't kill him. Eat the Spines,
turn them into Eggs, throw them
into a wall for one coin each.
Repeat as much as you want.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
By this point in time you should
have at least 50 Power Stars
recovered. It's time to head to
the final 2 worlds, and overall
the last Bowser fight. Head up
the stairway in the hallway and
through the big Star door. In
here are 4 different areas on
the North, South, East, and West
walls of the room. North of the
Big Star Door is a giant
grandfather clock. Jump into the
face of the clock to be
transported to Tick Tock Clock
(The 14th World, covered up
next). To the right is a hole in
the wall leading to Rainbow Ride
(the 15th final world). The left
hole contains a Secret World,
with two Castle Secret Stars,
and the stairs behind you lead
to the final Bowser. Are you
ready for these tough
challenges?

--------------------------------
~V Q.Course 14:Tick Tock Clock~
--------------------------------
The words "damned great world"
comes to mind when you think of
Tick Tock Clock. Just incase the
name of the world doesn't strike
you what the course is, Tick
Tock Clock takes place in a huge
clock with many moving parts and
gears. Getting to Tick Tock
Clock is pretty simple. Firstly,
collect 50 Power Stars, then
enter the Big Star Door that
rests on the 2nd floor of the
Castle. From there, your on the
third floor with the final 2
worlds, one being Tick Tock
Clock. As well as having a cool
atmosphere, you get to control
the speed of the moving parts.
It is all determined by when you
enter the clock face (Which is
the entrance to the world).
There are 4 numbers on the clock
face, them being 3, 6, 9, and
12. The Minute Hand revolving
around the face is everything.
When you enter the painting,
where ever the Minute hand was
determines the speed of the
clock. If it was on 3, the clock
parts will be pretty slow. If it
was near 6, the clock parts will
be moving at random speeds and
random directions with quick and
sudden changes. Stopping it near
9 makes the parts go really
fast. Stopping the clock near
the 12 does just that-all the
parts are not moving. Not much
timing is required before
entering the painting.

================================
Star 1-Luigi in the Cage
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Luigi needed
================================
The name of the Star says it all
right then and there. Your going
to want to be Luigi for this
Star. Along with that, enter the
clock with the minute hand on 12
for everything to be stopped.

Alright! Your first Star inside
the giant Tick Tock Clock!
Excited? Everything in the
middle of the world is a
bottomless pit, so avoid falling
off the stage. Everything is
mostly attached to the walls
around the clock, so no biggie
right? You'll soon see. Anyways,
from where you start, look
around for a swinging pendulam
between a gap. Well, it won't be
swinging with the clock stopped.
Jump across the small gap, and
to the rising path upwards to
the left. Keep going until you
see a yellow box. Double Jump
ontop of it, then you should be
close to another gap nearby.
Jump across it to the platform
on the other side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path (Its only
going one direction, not too
hard) and keep going until you
reach the large yellow boxes,
all right near each other. They
kinda form a staircase to the
higher areas of the large clock.
Climb up the boxes to the very
top. Once you are at the top,
simply jump to the nearby
pathway.

Now, you are once again on a
path that is indented out of the
walling. Lovely. Head to the
right to continue circling
around the clock. Eventually you
will reach a big wire box. This
happens to have your Star
inside, but it is inaccessable
right now. So, jump over it and
continue along the path until
you reach several spinning
gears. Jump up one after another
to reach a higher platform.

Once on the last gear, you will
see another platform jutting out
of the wall. Obviously, jump to
it. Once you are on this path,
simply continue along until you
reach a pretty big wire cage.
Nothing much of intrest right
now, so jump over the cage.

Once you are over the large
cage, keep going, by staying to
the wall on top of the cage
until you reach the normal brown
path again. Eventually you will
come to a yellow platform about
the same level as you. Normally,
this would be moving up and
down, but on 12 it just isn't.
Do a Backflip to reach the next
higher section. This smaller
section has a pole on it. Climb
onto the pole and climb to the
top of it. On the top, you will
recieve a 1-Up for jumping off
of it. Turn around to find
another yellow non-moving
platform. Get ontop of it, and
as close to the front edge
wthout falling off. Do a
Backflip upwards.

Hopefully, if you did it
correctly and didn't fall
downwards very far, you will
have landed on/grabbed a higher
platform. Climb onto it. Turn
around and face another platform
that is too high for normal
jumping. Backflip onto it as
well. Once you are on this
platform, run across it to the
end of it. Here you will find a
platform right above it. Simply
Double Jump up there to grab and
pull yourself up. Head forwards,
and soon enough you should see a
wire platform to the right of
your location. Simply jump onto
the wire platform not too far
away.

Head along the platform (as
Luigi of course) until you see a
Red ? Block. I think what you
know what to do. Hit the block
genius, and simply wait right
there. Don't move at all. When
the Power Flower hits Luigi, he
will be invisible and will
simply fall right through the
platform. In the air, again,
dont' move. If you didn't touch
the D-Pad whatsoever, you will
land square inbetween 2 non-
active pendulams. Quickly start
running to the right, Jumping
over any gaps that try to hinder
you. Keep going, down the pole
that comes up, and further to
the right. Down the platform and
slightly up the hill is the
cage, and if invisible still,
walk through for the Star.

===============================
Star 2-The Pendulam Switch Star
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
===============================
Now for this Star, you have to
cross a tiny chasm of pendulams.
What fun right? If you've played
Super Mario 64, this was the
Star "The Pit and the
Pendulams", but now its been
slightly changed to a Switch
Star. However, your destination
is yet the same. Stop the clock
on the number 12 to make this
pretty easy.

Most of this is Copy/Pasted. No
biggie. From where you start,
look around for a swinging
pendulam between a gap. It won't
be swinging with the clock
stopped. Jump across the small
gap, and to the rising path
upwards to the left. Keep going
until you see a yellow box.
Double Jump ontop of it, then
you should be close to another
gap nearby. Jump across it to
the platform on the other side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path (Its only
going one direction, nothing has
changed) and keep going until
you reach the large yellow
boxes, all right near each
other. They kinda form a
staircase to the higher areas of
the large clock. Climb up the
boxes to the very top. Once you
are at the top, simply jump to
the nearby pathway.

Now you are once again on a path
that is indented out of the
walling. Head to the right to
continue circling around the
clock. Eventually you will reach
a big wire box. The previous
Star is inside here. Jump over
it and continue along the path
until you reach several spinning
gears. Jump up one after another
to reach a higher platform.

Once on the last gear, you will
see another platform jutting out
of the wall. Obviously, jump to
it. Once you are on this path,
simply continue along until you
reach a pretty big wire cage.
Nothing much of intrest right
now, so jump over the cage.

From where you are on the large
platforms, take a left. The
platform widens out, and shows
up that a Heave-Ho is quite
nearby. Avoid him unless your
willing to get flung off the
world and have made this a
complete waste of time. Pass him
and soon enough you will reach
several triangle platforms.

These platforms continuously
spinning unless the clock is
frozen. In their (hopefully)
frozen places, jumping over them
is quite an easy task. Don't
fall now, because you are almost
done with this Power Star. On
the other side of these
platforms, you will finally see
the Star Switch. Activate it
with haste!

The Star Sphere is located in an
old familar area-The Pit and the
Pendulams. If you don't know
where that is, its behind the
Star Switch, over a little path,
and then when you see a few gaps
and a path, follow them. You
will end up near the Star
Sphere, so break it and claim
the Power Star! I advise not
falling now. Pretty simple
location.

=============================
Star 3-Get a Hand
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
This is by far the shortest Star
name in the game. Meh, that
doesn't mean that Star takes
several seconds. You will want
the clock to be moving for this
Star, so stop to clock on the 3
this time around. If you have
some skill and want this to go
faster, stop it on the 9.
Anyways, on with the Star.

From where you start, look
around for a swinging pendulam
between a gap. If you mistime
your jump, the pendulam will hit
you and you will likely be
pushed down into the abyss. Time
your jump accordingly. Jump
across the small gap, and to the
rising path upwards to the left.
Keep going until you see a
yellow box. Double Jump on top
of it, then you should be close
to another gap nearby. Jump
across it to the platform on the
other side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path, like
before as always, and keep going
until you reach the large yellow
boxes, all right near each
other. They kinda form a
staircase to the higher areas of
the large clock. Climb up the
boxes to the very top. Once you
are at the top, simply jump to
the nearby pathway.

Now, you will be on a large open
section with some weird black
ball constantly blowing fire at
you. Don't touch it because one,
it hurts bad and, two, you might
run off the edge when you are on
fire. Wait around this area
until you see a large hand (the
clock hand in question) come
your way. Jump ontop of it. Just
stand on the clock hand
(Preferably the red arrow) until
you circle around, and right
near where you started you will
find a small indent in the wall.
There is your Star, so go grab
it. As a note, there are several
other means of getting this
Star, including Backflipping
Luigi from above. Get the Star
whatever way you want to.

================================
Star 4-Stomp on the Thwomp
Difficulty:****/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody,
Wario not recommended
================================
Well, this time around you have
to journey all the way to the
very tippy top of Tick Tock
Clock. Although this Star can be
obtained with out any movement,
it is considerably easier if
there is some movement. So place
the minute hand on the 3 and
enter the painting. You have
already been pretty close to the
top of the clock already, but
you may not know the exact steps
to get past the final section.

Its a pretty long journey. From
where you start, look around for
a swinging pendulam between a
gap. It won't be swinging with
the clock stopped, or it may be
if it is moving. Avoid it if it
is moving. Jump across the small
gap, and to the rising path
upwards to the left. Keep going
until you see a yellow box.
Double Jump ontop of it, then
you should be close to another
gap nearby. Jump across it to
the platform on the other side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path since it
is the only way you can go, and
keep going until you reach the
large yellow boxes, all right
near each other. They kinda form
a staircase to the higher areas
of the large clock. Climb up the
boxes to the very top. Once you
are at the top, simply jump to
the nearby pathway.

Now you are once again on a path
that is indented out of the
walling. Lovely. Head to the
right to continue circling
around the clock. Eventually you
will reach a big wire box. You
have already gotten the Star
inside to ignore the cage. Jump
over it and continue along the
path until you reach several
spinning gears. Jump up one
after another to reach a higher
platform.

Once on the last gear, you will
see another platform jutting out
of the wall. Obviously, Jump to
it. Once you are on this path,
simply continue along until you
reach a pretty big wire cage.
Nothing much of interest right
now, so jump over the cage.

Once you are over the large
cage, keep going, by staying to
the wall on top of the cage
until you reach the normal brown
path again. Eventually you will
come to a yellow platform about
the same level as you. The
platform here won't be moving if
the clock is on 12. Do a
Backflip to reach the next
higher section. This smaller
section has a pole on it. Climb
onto the pole and climb to the
top of it. On the top, you will
recieve a 1-Up for jumping off
of it. Turn around to find
another yellow non-moving
platform. Get ontop of it, and
as close to the front edge
without falling off. Do a
Backflip upwards.

Hopefully, if you did it
correctly and didn't fall
downwards very far, you will
have landed on/grabbed a higher
platform. Climb onto it. Turn
around and face another platform
that is too high for normal
Jumping. Backflip onto it as
well. Once you are on this
platform, run across it to the
end of it. Here you will find a
platform right above it. Simply
Double Jump up there to grab and
pull yourself up. Head forwards,
and soon enough you should see a
wire platform to the right of
your location. Simply Jump onto
the wire platform not too far
away.

Now comes the fun part of the
Star. Near the previous moving
platform is another higher
platform. You can easily grab it
from a Backflip. Walk carefully
along this pretty thin walkway
until you come to another
rotating yellow block. Quickly
Jump onto it and Jump to the
higher platforms above you
quickly before it rotates again.
On this higher area of ther
clock, start making your way
left.

You are almost at the top of the
clock. Just a few more obstacles
lie in your way. Continue moving
until you are forced to jump
onto a conveyor belt. Quickly
run to the left and jump onto
the nearby platform to avoid
being swept off by the conveyor
belt. On the next platform you
will have, naturally, another
conveyor belt! This moves in the
opposite direction the previous
one did and also moves a bit
faster. Quickly, very quickly,
jump over to the next platform.
Now you are really close to your
goal. Keep along the path.
Unless you jump its pretty
impossible to fall off, that is
until you reach two triangle
rotating platforms. Before it is
too late, quickly jump over them
both to the next upper section
platforms, and follow the path
around. Eventually you will
reach the very top of the clock,
and it will seem you can't go
any further. Just sit they for a
few seconds until the rotating
clock hand makes its way to you.
Get on the clock hand and wait
for it to rotate to the other
side, where another conveyor
belt lies with a Thwomp on the
end. Get on the moving belt and
when the Thwomp stomps down,
quickly jump on top of him with
a backflip. At the top of his
movement you will see your Star,
so jump to it and finish this
area.

================================
Star 5-Timed Jumps on Moving
Bars Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Wario
needed
================================
Another classic Star, just
changed a little bit. There is a
Black Brick Block standing
between you and the Star, so
your going to need to be Wario
for this road trip. He is
absolutely horrid on this
course, but you will have to
make due with it. You've been
near this location for a
previous Star. Stop the clock on
12 before entering. The Star is
easy to get when the clock is
frozen. From where you start,
look around for a swinging
pendulam between a gap. Well, it
won't be swinging with the clock
stopped. Jump across the small
gap, and to the rising path
upwards to the left. Keep going
until you see a yellow box.
Double Jump on top of it, then
you should be close to another
gap nearby. Jump across it to
the platform on the other side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path as it's
the only way to go, and keep
going until you reach the large
yellow boxes, all right near
each other. They kinda form a
staircase to the higher areas of
the large clock. Climb up the
boxes to the very top. Once you
are at the top, simply jump to
the nearby pathway.

Now you are once again on a path
that is indented out of the
walling. Lovely. Head to the
right to continue circling
around the clock. Eventually you
will reach a big wire box.
Ignore the Star inside, jump
over it, and continue along the
path until you reach several
spinning gears. Jump up one
after another to reach a higher
platform.

Once on the last gear, you will
see another platform jutting out
of the wall. Obviously, Jump to
it. Once you are on this path,
simply continue along until you
reach a pretty big wire cage.
Nothing much of intrest right
now, so jump over the cage.

Once you are over the large
cage, keep going, by staying to
the wall ontop of the cage until
you reach the normal brown path
again. Eventually you will come
to a yellow platform about the
same level as you. Normally,
this would be moving up and
down, but on 12 it just isn't.
Do a Backflip to reach the next
higher section. This smaller
section has a pole on it. Climb
onto the pole and climb to the
top of it. On the top, you will
recieve a 1-Up for Jumping off
of it. Turn around to find
another yellow non-moving
platform. Get ontop of it, and
as close to the front edge
wthout falling off. Do a
Backflip upwards.

Hopefully, if you did it
correctly and didn't fall
downwards very far, you will
have landed on/grabbed a higher
platform. Climb onto it. Turn
around and face another platform
that is too high for normal
jumping. Backflip onto it as
well. Once you are on this
platform, run across it to the
end of it. Here you will find a
platform right above it. Simply
Double Jump up there and grab it
to pull yourself up. Head
forwards, and soon enough you
should see a wire platform to
the right of your location.
Simply jump onto the wire
platform not too far away.

Walk along this pretty wire
platform. Ignore everything on
here, and be sure to avoid that
Goomba. Falling now as Wario
isn't a fun thing. Its happened
to me before, and I was pissed.
On the other side of these
platforms the wire mesh will dip
down to a lower section. Here on
the left wall you will see
several platforms constantly
swinging in and out of the wall,
or simply in place if the clock
was stopped on the 12. As Wario,
you may need to backflip to
reach these platforms. However,
at the top there is the talked
about before Black Brick Block.
As Wario you are able to break
it, so why don't you do so? You
will unlock the entrance to the
cage, where the Power Star is
being held. Grab it.

==============================
Star 6-Stop Time for Red Coins
Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
==============================
Well, it is about time you earn
our Red Coin challenge right?
Unless you want this to be
maximized impossible, stop the
clock on the 12, otherwise make
suicide and try again. This is
hardly possible when the clock
is moving. The reason is because
all 8 of our Red Coins are
supended over rotating platforms
that will move if the clock is
in motion. Kinda hard to grab
the Coins on spinning platforms.

Let's start our small hunt by
turning around from where you
start off. Look towards an
indented area in the ground with
a ! Yellow Block and a Spinning
Heart. Nearby those things are
several rotaing platforms. (That
shouldn't be rotating). Jump
onto the first platform to claim
your first Red Coin. Nearby that
platform you will find another
platform that is on a bit of a
higher level. Jump over to it
and claim the Red Coin that it
holds. Then jump onto another
nearby higher platform for
another Red Coin bringing the
count to 3.

Your fourth Red Coin is simply
near you as usual. Just jump to
the next, higher platform a few
pixels away from you to claim
it. Instead of going up to the
higher platforms, look over to
your left to find a string of a
few platforms. On these
platforms you will find your
fifth Red Coin and your sixth
Red Coin. Carefully jump over to
these platforms and claim them
for yourself.

From here, jump back to the
previous platform. Now you want
to jump up to the next highest
platform. Here you will find
your seventh Red Coin. Jump up
to the highest platform to find
and claim the eighth and final
Red Coin. The Power Star will
appear right next to where you
earned Red Coin number six. Jump
downwards and across the small
gap to the platforms forming a
bridge and claim the Star.

=============================
Star 7-Tick Tock Silver Stars
Difficulty:*/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Well, it all has wound down to
the final challenge inside Tick
Tock Clock. And what kind of
challenge do you think is going
to get thrown at you? I doubt
you guessed that there was gonna
be a Silver Stars challenge.
Meh. Being in a huge gargantuan
clock you think it would be
difficult to find everything,
right? Well, its easier than it
is said to be. You'll find out
when you start the level. Begin
at any time speed, it's
irrelevent what you start with.
When you start just stay at the
very bottom of the world. You
may think your accomplishing
nothing, but you are actually
making this Star much easier.
See the 5 Silver Stars bouncing
on the screen? Wait, bouncing
around the screen...? It may not
seem right, but those Silver
Stars are actually moving. And
where do you think their final
destination will be? Yep. You
guessed correctly. Right at the
very bottom of the world. Just
wait there for about 20-40
seconds. You will see and hear
all of the Silver Stars. Maybe
not all of them though. You'll
probably find them one at a time
at the bottom of the world. But
that's ok. Take your time
getting the Stars. The Silver
Stars fortunately cannot fall
off the edge into the abyss, so
there's no rush. Sometimes, a
Star will simply stop in place
and never come down to the
bottom, regardless if the clock
is in motion or not. I advise
suiciding and restarting the
level as it takes forever to
track the offical location of
that Silver Star.

After collecting all 5 Silver
Stars you will see the Star
appear very, very far away in
the Star Sphere. What joy. You
have been near that location
before. From where you start,
look around for a swinging
pendulam between a gap. Do your
best to avoid this if the clock
is in motion. Jump across the
small gap, and to the rising
path upwards to the left. Keep
going until you see a yellow
box. Double Jump on top of it,
then you should be close to
another gap nearby. Jump across
it to the platform on the other
side.

Now that your on the platform
sticking out of the wall, make
sure to watch your step. One
wrong move and you'll be flying
out of this level. Keep heading
upwards along the path, and keep
going until you reach the large
yellow boxes, all right near
each other. They kinda form a
staircase to the higher areas of
the large clock. Climb up the
boxes to the very top. Once you
are at the top, simply jump to
the nearby pathway.

Now you are once again on a path
that is indented out of the
walling. Lovely. Head to the
right to continue circling
around the clock. Eventually you
will reach a big wire box.
Ignore what's inside, jump over
it and continue along the path
until you reach several spinning
gears. Jump up one after another
to reach a higher platform.

Once on the last gear, you will
see another platform jutting out
of the wall. Obviously, Jump to
it. Once you are on this path,
simply continue along until you
reach a pretty big wire cage.
Nothing much of intrest here, so
jump over the cage.

Once you are over the large
cage, keep going, by staying to
the wall ontop of the cage until
you reach the normal brown path
again. Eventually you will come
to a yellow platform about the
same level as you. Normally,
this would be moving up and
down, but on 12 it just isn't.
Do a Backflip to reach the next
higher section. This smaller
section has a pole on it. Climb
onto the pole and climb to the
top of it. On the top, you will
recieve a 1-Up for jumping off
of it. Turn around to find
another yellow non-moving
platform. Get ontop of it, and
as close to the front edge
wthout falling off. Do a
Backflip upwards.

Hopefully, if you did it
correctly and didn't fall
downwards very far, you will
have landed on/grabbed a higher
platform. Climb onto it. Turn
around and face another platform
that is too high for normal
jumping. Backflip onto it as
well. Once you are on this
platform, run across it to the
end of it. Here you will find a
platform right above it. Simply
Double Jump up there and grab
and pull yourself up. Head
forwards, and soon enough you
should see a wire platform to
the right of your location.
Simply jump onto the wire
platform not too far away.

From here walk over to the right
and Jump down into the area
where the Timed Jumps on Moving
Bars Star was located. Climb up
the moving not moving bars and
jump ontop of the Black Brick.
Jump to the top of the cage now,
and would you look at that! Your
Star is sitting in its Sphere
right there! Grab it.

=============================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:****/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
It isn't the fact that you can
die. It isn't the fact there
aren't a lot of Coins in this
level. Well, that actually is
the problem. There is a shortage
of Coins in this level. Only one
area holds half your Coins, and
the other half are scattered
everywhere. I will follow the
path in my special order, which
in my opinion is comfortable to
me. You will want the clock
stopped for this Star, though.

Once you start off, turn around
and head towards the cage on an
area dipped below. There is a !
Block there with a fast and easy
10 Coins inside. Once you get
those Coins head onto the first
non-spinning platform. Jump up
to the next one nearby it. A Red
Coin is floating there. Grab it
and turn around. Another
platform higher is there, so
Double Jump up to it and another
Red Coin will be there. Also, a
Red Coin was near the first non-
spinning platform in case you
missed. Jump up to the next
platform, then jump higher to
another nearby platform. There
are 2 Red Coins here. Jump up
even higher to another non-
spinning platform and take the
Red Coin on it. Jump a little
higher for the final Red Coin.
The Red Coin Star will appear,
but don't grab it. Fall to the
bottom now.

Once you have those Coins head
to where you started and
continue forwards and jump over
the small pit near the pendulam.
Head up the wire grating path
until you reach a big yellow
block. Jump up on it and grab
the 2 Coins floating just above
it. Head over the next pit near
a larger pendulam and then
follow the path around the dge
of the clock. Eventually you
will come to the large mesh
grating field with a ! Block.
Inside this block are another 3
Coins.

Head along forwards again now
and over the tuna can-like
platforms. Double Jump over the
big cage fit for Luigi, and
continue along the rising path.
Eventually you will come to a
platform that isn't moving up
and down. Double Jump up to the
higher ledge. There is an Amp
circling a pole. Grab the 5
Coins that are sitting near the
pole. Now, climb up the pole and
jump to the left.

In this next area, a Heave-Ho is
constantly moving around at you
trying to lift you away,
possibly into death if he gets
you. Bad thoughts! There are two
! Blocks in this area, each one
containing three Coins. Lure the
Heave-Ho! away from the boxes,
then quickly break them both and
collect their prizes inside.
Also, two Goombas (One of them
is wearing a Mario Cap) are
nearby so kill them both for a
Coin. Jump across the tuna
shaped platform and to the other
side where another Goomba is
waiting. Jump back to the other
side again and Ground Pound the
Blue Coin Switch. Jump across
the platform and to the other
side and you will see a triangle
of Blue Coins. There are 7, so
hurry up and collect them all.
Your Coin totals should be over
55 by this time.

Head back the way you came until
you reach the pole, but don't go
down it. Instead, keep going
towards the platform a bit
raised off the ground. Jump on
it, then Backflip up to a higher
platform. Walk off nearby onto a
large grating. There is another
! Block here, with 3 more Coins
inside it. Nearby is a black
brick block reached by the
moving bars. Above all of the
moing bars is another Coin, so
grab them. Get back onto the
other raised platform and
Backflip onto the highest
platform. Backflip or Double
Jump to another nearby ledge
leading to more platform on the
edge of the clock. Follow the
pathway past the Wario Hat and
past four moving/unmoving bars.
Jump inside the cage once you
find the chance. There is a !
Block here that contains ten
more Coins.

Now for the final Coins. By now
the Star should be yours, but
incase you haven't gotten it, a
few more Coins are still
available. Head along the path
now until it starts winding
around, where another ! Block
lies with three more Coins
inside. Nearby this area should
be a circular wire floating
island. When you get the nearest
chance Jump to it and break the
! Block for ten more Coins. Jump
back to the mainland and contnue
your way up through the clock to
the very top, and near a fire
shooter is the last ! Block with
ten Coins. The Star should be
yours by now.

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Well, 14 Courses down, only 1 to
go! To the right of Tick-Tock
Clock is an indented area in the
wall. Backflip up there to a
small room with a hole in it
leading to the final course of
the game:Rainbow Ride. It sounds
cute, but the course is extreme,
not fun, and has caused several
DS's to be destroyed.

--------------------------------
  ~V R.Course 15:Rainbow Ride~
--------------------------------
Total. Hell. Those two words
perfectly sum up the complexity
and difficulty of Rainbow Ride.
I'm getting ahead of myself
though, what is Rainbow Ride
like? Basically, its one huge
course. You use a series of
closely packed platforms and
magic carpets which ride along
rainbow paths (Hence, the name
of the world) to get to your
destination. Just one little
thing-you're above an empty
abiss the entire time. Aren't
you lucky? One false move and
you will be plummeting off the
edge of the world, forcing you
to start over from the beginning
of the world. You need at least
50 Stars to access Rainbow Ride.
From the Main Lobby of the
Castle, head straight up the
stairs and through the big door.
Go up the spiral staircase and
out the door. Proceed up the
nearby stairway and through the
Big Star Door, then turn right.
Triple Jump up the hole in the
wall then jump into the hole in
the ground, and you will appear
in Rainbow Ride. Here are some
things to keep in mind: 1.Move
slowly! You have all the time in
the world to make most of your
moves, so be patient and
careful! 2.Be accurate! Don't
miss any jump to any platform,
or you will surely die. Be
careful! 3.Don't hit enemies!
Although there are few, they can
easily push you off the edge of
a platform!

================================
Star 1-Cruiser Crossing the
Rainbow Difficulty:***/*****
Recommended Character:Wario or
Mario needed
================================
Most likely to be said as the
most famous Star in the game.
The signiture Star of the game.
It's tough getting to the famous
winged ship in Rainbow Ride, and
the path is really long. There
are some shortcuts, so just pay
attention! Once you start you
will be dropped onto a platform.
Turn around and you should see a
pole in the distance. Here's the
big shortcut:Get a running start
on your platform then do a Long
Jump all the way over to the
pole. You should hopefully
either grab the pole or land
right next to it and take a
little damage.

Once you are near the pole, or
on it, start climbing all the
way to the top of it. Once you
reach the top, simply perform a
jump onto the nearby platform,
or into the little basket you
are in. Jump to the long
platform, then run over until
you reach a series of spinning
platforms. Be very careful at
this part-there is a Lakitu
continually throwing Spines onto
your position and you will get
hit if you stand still. Don't
let the spinning platforms
disorient you. Go to the end of
the first spinning platform then
jump to either the left or right
spinning platforms. It makes no
difference which one you go to.
Then, jump to the last spinning
platform then jump over onto a
long non-spinning platform,
which has a magic carpet at the
end of it.

Go to the end of this platform
then Jump onto the magic carpet.
It will quickly begin to move
along its pre-determined rainbow
path, so you can clearly see
where it is going. You will
quickly get stuck infront of a
platform as the carpet goes
under it. Jump over the platform
and land back on the carpet. The
carpet will continue to wrap
around a 180 degree turn, and
you should gather a few Coins
along the way. Eventually you
will come to two short flat
platforms. You need to jump over
both of them, and land back on
the carpet. If your not standing
on the carpet too long, it will
dissappear and you will be
stranded out here. Not good.
Eventually you'll reach the end
of the path.

At the end of the rainbow comes
a place you will be seeing quite
a lot during your time in
Rainbow Ride. Its the infamous
carpet choice. You will see two
more carpets, going in different
directions, going to different
places.

Wait until your carpet reaches
the end of its path, then before
it falls quickly jump over to
the carpet on the left. I'm
assuming the camera is facing
the direction the original
carpet was going. Your new
carpet ride to the Cruiser has
begun.

The first half of your second
capret ride is pretty calm. Just
sit back until the action
begins. Of course, you are
likely to die more than once
during this stage. You can't
take your time, so you need to
be quick. Eventually you will
begin circling around several
times around a small, tall
platform with two long platforms
sticking out of it. You need to
be careful here. The two long
platforms will push you off the
carpet if you don't jump over
them. At the bottom of the
circle they won't effect you,
but once you are their height,
they will effect you. Quickly
jump over them until the path
straightens out again. You can
ignore the blue fire at the
bottom of the platforms. It
can't hit you as far as I know.

Now you will go under a few
platforms. Well, at leat the
carpet will. The giant Cruiser
is also visible. The giant
wings, much like oars, of the
ship will not push you off, you
just go through them. Jump onto
the first platform, and say
goodbye to the carpet you won't
be seeing again. Make the Double
Jump to the second platform,
then perform the Triple Jump to
a much higher platform. Quickly
move here! They will begin to
fall down. Jump to the small
platform nearby. You know it is
the platform because it will
have a plank on it.

On the solid platform, simply
make your way slowly across the
wooden bridge to the Crusier,
then board it. Your finally on
the famed Cruiser of Rainbow
Ride! Now, where the hell is
your Power Star? Oh. It's just
to the left of you. And wouldn't
you know it? Winds on the
Cruiser will quickly push you to
the back of the ship. (Yes I'm
aware the ship isn't moving and
that winds shouldn't be
present). Well, now how do you
reach an unreachable Power Star?

Never fear! There is, very
conveniently, a Wario Cap nearby
on the ship. Be a good person
and go pick up that Cap! If you
aren't Wario already (And I'm
sure you aren't) you will be
now. What good is Wario to you?
He is able to reach the Power
Star even with these extreme
winds. How? Just grab the damn
Power Flower inside the Red ?
Block on the back of the ship.
Your now Metal Wario! The strong
winds are now no match for you!
Run to the front of the ship
with ease, then jump onto the
bow. Slowly make your way to the
Power Star. It's easy to fall
off since the Star is on a
really thin plank, so walk
carefully. Good job. Hate this
course yet?

===============================
Star 2-The Big House in the Sky
Difficulty:****/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
===============================
Another Super Mario 64 classic-
the Big House in the Sky. Its a
long, pretty damn tough road all
the way up there. It's extremely
difficult near the very end.
However, there is a very awesome
shortcut, which bypasses that
difficult part. Lucky you! You
need to be Mario though, so it
is recommended you are him when
starting this Star. If your not
him his hat is too far away for
you to reach it, so stick with
the difficult path. Its not that
hard. Actually, Mario's Cap IS
in the Big House. So no needing
to be him when you start the
level!

Once you start you will be
dropped onto a platform. Turn
around and you will or should
see a pole in the distance. Get
a running start on your platform
then do a Long Jump to take the
shortcut, landing all the way
over to the pole. You should
hopefully either grab the pole
or land right next to it and
take a little damage.

Once you are near the pole, or
on it, start climbing all the
way to the top of it. Once you
reach the top, simply perform a
jump onto the nearby platform,
or into the little basket you
are in. Jump to the long
platform, then run over until
you reach a series of spinning
platforms. Be very careful at
this part-there is a Lakitu
continually throwing Spines onto
your position and you will get
hit if you stand still. Go to
the end of the first spinning
platform then jump to either the
left or right spinning
platforms. It makes no
difference which one you go to.
Then, jump to the last spinning
platform then Jump over onto a
long non-spinning platform,
which has a magic carpet at the
end of it.

Go to the end of this platform
then jump onto the magic carpet.
It will quickly begin to move
along its pre-determined rainbow
path, so you can clearly see
where it is going. You will
quickly get stuck infront of a
platform as the carpet goes
under it. Jump over the platform
and land back on the carpet. The
carpet will continue to wrap
around a 180 degree turn, and
you should gather a few Coins
along the way. Eventually you
will come to two short flat
platform. You need to jump over
both of them, and land back on
the carpet. Avoid not standing
on the capret for too long, it
will dissappear and you will be
stranded out here if you do.
Eventually you'll reach the end
of the path.

You will reach the same place
you reached in the previous
Star. Face the direction the
carpet is going. Doesn't this
all seem like the exact same
plan from the previous Star?
Until now of course. Once you
reach the two carpets on the
sides, jump to the right one
instead of the left. This will
start it moving, so be prepared!
The path to the Big House you
go!

Don't expect a leisure cruise.
Far from it. The carpet begins,
rather quickly actually, to gain
altitude. The carpet goes right
through a large glass object
thingy (No idea what it is),
however you won't. In order to
get back on the carpet you must
jump over the object. No easy
feat. The easiest way is to
perform a backflip as soon as
the front of the carpet starts
going through the glass. You
will land on the top of the
glass, if not back on the carpet
on the other side. The carpet
will go through one more of
these things, so be ready.

Eventually the carpet will
finally enter the Big House in
the Sky. Wait, that's it? A
dinky room with a fireplace
spewing fire trying to kill you,
a table with 5 Coins on it, a ?
Red Block, and a Mario Cap? What
gives!? Let's not get carried
away though, hehe. Grab the
Mario Cap if you aren't Mario
right now, then hit the ? Red
Block. Obviously, a Power Flower
will float down. Grab it.

Now that you can float, rapidly
keep pushing B to keep climbing
higher. There is a small opening
in the ceiling, which Mario can
easily fit through. Go through
the top of the ceiling and onto
the roof of the Big House. Take
a minute to simply take a gander
at the glorious view of this
place. Really big right? When
your done, simply grab the Power
Star that is floating nearby.

==============================
Star 3-Coins Amassed in a Maze
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
==============================
Although the title of the Star
seems intimidating, it is
actually quite easy. It will put
you in a 2-d maze (Its the view
really, your still in a 3-D
world) and all eight Red Coins
lie in there. It's not too hard
unless suicide is your only
option.

Once you start you will be
dropped onto a platform. Turn
around and you will or should
see a pole in the distance. Take
the usual shortcut. Get a
running start on your platform
then do a Long Jump all the way
over to the pole. You should
hopefully either grab the pole
or land right next to it and
take a little damage.

Once you are near the pole, or
on it, start climbing all the
way to the top of it. Once you
reach the top, simply perform a
jump onto the nearby platform,
or into the little basket you
are in. Jump to the long
platform, then run over until
you reach a series of spinning
platforms. Be very careful at
this part-there is a Lakitu
continually throwing Spines onto
your position and you will get
hit if you stand still. Go to
the end of the first spinning
platform then jump to the left
platform. From here jump onto
more adjacently small leftern
platforms. Eventually you should
drop down onto solid ground.

Go to the middle of the bottom
base platform. You will see the
blue shadow star signaling where
the Power Star will appear.
Triple Jump onto the platform to
the left, nabbing your first Red
Coin. Long Jump over to the
right side then Jump up a level
for the second Red Coin. From
here it is pretty damn hard to
give you a description of where
to go. Follow the maze around-
its not very hard. Remember this
little tip-there are some jumps
you'd be surprised you can make
here! Keep that in mind the grab
all the Coins and the Power
Star. Don't forget that you can
Long Jump and Wall Kick. They
will prove useful in creating
shortcuts to some coins
otherwise much more difficult to
access.

=============================
Star 4-Swingin' in the Breeze
Difficulty:**/*****
Recommended Character:Anybody
=============================
Yeah, ignore any bizaare
thoughts the title may provoke.
So far, you've only gone through
half of Rainbow Ride, so I do
believe you may have a bit of
trouble. You need to work fast-
otherwise you will easily die in
this new, unexplored area.

Once you start you will be
dropped onto a platform. Turn
around and you should see a pole
in the distance. Here's the big
shortcut:Get a running start on
your platform then do a Long
Jump all the way over to the
pole. You should hopefully
either grab the pole or land
right next to it and take a
little damage. From here run
down the stairs to the left of
you until you reach a tilting
platform.

The platform will begin to tilt
in whatever area your character
is in. There are two sides to
the platform. One side leads to
death (You fall off and die) and
the other has a platform high
above it. Run over to the side
near death to have the platform
tilt the other way, rising the
other side near the platform.
When you think your in a good
position, quickly run over and
jump on the platform.

On this short platform, walk
forwards until you see a blue
swinging platform going back and
forth just like a pendulam. You
can easily die at this part if
you rush it, so take your time.
Jump onto the platform when it
comes to your side, then ride it
over to the other platform.
Double Jump onto the next
platform. Your jumping
capabilities are slightly
hindered by the incline, so if
you don't think you can make it,
wait to try again on the next
pass.

On this next platform, keep
walking forwards until you reach
a short gap, followed by three
slightly higher brown platforms.
These are Donut Platforms. If
you stay on them for over a
second, they will begin to fall.
However, you can keep jumping on
them quickly and they will
remain in position. Jump on top
of the Donut Platforms and run
over to the tilting platform
that lies on the other side.

Stay on the end of the tilting
platform for a moment, which
will, as you should remember,
tilt the platform in the
opposite direction. Now, with
the platform in a perfect
position, you should quickly run
to the other side and jump up to
the next Donut Platforms.

Now for the hardest part of the
Star-after getting on these
Donut Platforms you must quickly
jump up to higher Donut
Platforms a bit higher than you.
You must then quickly turn
around and Jump onto one last
set of Donut Platforms. From
here, a platform is set across a
short gap, with a damn fire
emitter blocking it. After it
shoots fire, quickly Double Jump
across the gap from your Donut
Platform. Keep jumping on the
platform to avoid it falling,
remember?

Ok, you are very in the level
right now, and there are still
two more steps left where you
can quickly and easily die, but
you have to be fast otherwise
your gonna die anyways. From
this platform, perform a Long
Jump to the few Donut Blocks a
little distance from you. Make
sure not to overshoot them! Now,
keep jumping on the last one to
ensure it doesn't fall, then
jump onto a yellow moving
platform when it comes near you.
Jump off on the other side once
you reach it.

This new platform has a Goomba
on it, so you shoud know where
you are (ironically, the only
Goomba in Rainbow Ride. How
about that?). There are two
paths you can choose from here-
going straight to some more
Donut Platforms, or go up the
slope right next to you. For
this Power Star, you need to
head up the slope. There are
three platforms jutting out of
the slope to act like stairs,
but if you miss one, you will
fall down the slope and are
likely to have enough momentum
to fall off the edge of the
world. Its safe to crawl up the
slope, and to the top of it.
Kill the Goomba first before it
tries to kill you. Phew! Its
been a long journey, but you are
right next to the Star! Just one
last thing-you need to go across
one more swinging platform. Its
not that difficult though, but
you can die if your a total miss
the last jump. Wait for the
swinging platform to come your
way, then jump onto it. Wait
until it reaches the other side,
then cautiously Jump onto the
final platform. Your jump is a
bit hindered from the angle of
incline the platform is in, and
there is a small gap inbetween
the swinging platform and the
final Star platform. Double Jump
to ensure you snag the Star.
Don't hit the fire emitter
beforehand, though.

================================
Star 5-Tricky Triangles!
Difficulty:***/***** Recommended
Character:Anybody but Wario
================================
Remember that split path near
the end of the previous Star?
Well, you are about to take the
remaining path. Its exactly the
same method to get there,
however.

Once you start you will be
dropped onto a platform. Turn
around and you will or should
see a pole in the distance. Take
the usual shortcut. Get a
running start on your platform
then do a Long Jump all the way
over to the pole. You should
hopefully either grab the pole
or land right next to it and
take a little damage. From here
run down the stairs to the left
of you until you reach a tilting
platform.

The platform will begin to tilt
in whatever area your character
is in. There are two sides to
the platform. One side leads to
death (You fall off and die in
the abyss) and the other has a
platform high above it. Run over
to the side near death to have
the platform tilt thatway,
rising the other side near the
platform. When you think your in
a good position, quickly run
over and jump on the platform.

On this short platform, walk
forwards until you see a blue
swinging platform going back and
forth just like a pendulam. You
can easily die at this part if
you rush it, so take your time.
Jump onto the platform when it
comes to your side, then ride it
over to the other platform.
Double Jump onto the next
platform. The incline, again,
makes this a bit tricky. If you
fall there is a platform below
to save you. It leads back to
the tilting platform. On this
next platform, keep walking
forwards until you reach a short
gap, followed by three slightly
higher brown platforms. These
are Donut Platforms. If you stay
on them for over a second, they
will begin to fall. However, you
can keep jumping on them quickly
and they will remain in
position. Jump on top of the
Donut Platforms and run over to
the tilting platform that lies
on the other side.

Stay on the end of the tilting
platform for a moment, which
will, as you should remember,
tilt the platform in your
direction. Now, with the
platform in a perfect position,
you should quickly run to the
other side and Jump up to the
next Donut Platforms.

Now for the hardest part of the
Star-after getting on these
Donut Platforms you must quickly
Jump up to higher Donut
Platforms a bit higher than you.
You must then quickly turn
around and jump onto one last
set of Donut Platforms. From
here, a platform is set across a
short gap, with a damn fire
emitter blocking it. After it
shoots fire, quickly Double Jump
across the gap from your Donut
Platform. Keep jumping on the
platform to avoid it falling,
remember?

Ok, we are very high above death
right now, and there are still 2
more steps left where you can
quickly and easily die, but you
have to be fast otherwise your
gonna die anyways. From this
platform, perform a Long Jump to
the few Donut Blocks a little
distance from you. Make sure not
to overshoot them! Now, keep
Jumping on the last one to
ensure it doesn't fall, then
jump onto a yellow moving
platform when it comes near you.
Jump off on the other side once
you reach it.

This new platform has a Goomba
on it, the only one in Rainbow
Ride. There are two paths you
can choose from here-going
straight to some more Donut
Platforms, or go up the slope
right next to you. You went up
the slope last Star, so this
time keep heading right. Make a
Long Jump to the Donut Platforms
a little distance out. Quickly
jump over the triangle shaped
obstruction to some more Donut
Platforms which you will land
on. Keep jumping on the
platforms until the fire-spewing
statue has stopped, then Long
Jump over to the far away
platform.

On this platform you will find
several up-right Traingles, and
a ! Red Switch nearby them. The
object of this puzzle is to
activate the ! Switch to make
the Triangles turn upside down,
so you can stand on their
undersides. From this advantage
you must use them as stairs to
reach the upper platform, which
contains your Power Star.
Activate the Switch, then go to
the 3rd Triangle on the bottom
row. The Switch stays active for
about 6 seconds, so you need to
be very fast. Do a Backflip to
the upper row from the 3rd
Triangle on the bottom row. You
can now easily jump over two
more Triangles, and then its one
jump to your Power Star.

================================
Star 6-Somewhere Over the
Rainbow Difficulty:****/*****
Recommended Character:Mario
needed
================================
This Star, for most people, is
quite impossible to figure out.
Honestly, in the orginal N64
version, I spent hours trying to
figure out what to do. You
shouldn't make the same mistakes
I did, and somehow stumble upon
the key to the Star. Anyways,
enough talk. Basically the Star
is located on a small island
floating in the middle of
nowhere. To get there you must
use the cannon on the stern of
the Floating Ship. However, the
Bob-omb Buddy isn't on the Ship.
Instead, she is miles away.
Mario is needed to reach the
Bob-omb Buddy. Let's go!

Once you start you will be
dropped onto a platform. Turn
around and you will or should
see a pole in the distance. Use
the shortcut again. Get a
running start on your platform
then do a Long Jump all the way
over to the pole. You should
hopefully either grab the pole
or land right next to it and
take a little damage.

Once you are near the pole, or
on it, start climbing all the
way to the top of it. Once you
reach the top, simply perform a
jump onto the nearby platform,
or into the little basket you
are in. Jump to the long
platform, then run over until
you reach a series of spinning
platforms. Be very careful at
this part-there is a Lakitu
continually throwing Spines onto
your position and you will get
hit if you stand still. Go to
the end of the first spinning
platform then jump to the left
platform. From here jump onto
more adjacently small leftern
platforms. Eventually you should
drop down onto solid ground.

Keep heading left until you
reach the very end of the large
platform. You will see a Blue
Coin Switch. There is no need to
activate this Switch as you are
not currently doing the 100 Coin
Star. If you want Coins for
whatever reason, I can't stop
you from activating that Switch.
Anyways, you should also notice
a Spinning Heart. Now why would
there be a Spinning Heart in the
middle of nowhere? Well, to the
right of the Heart are 2 walls,
very close to eachother. As
Mario, it's very possible to
Wall Jump up these walls. Do so.
After several Wall Jumps you
will eventually reach the top.
The only thing that is up here
is the Bob-omb Buddy, and a ton
of blue coins if you activated
the switch. Talk to him, and the
camera will shift a long
distance to the Cannon, which is
aboard the Floating Ship. Its a
long journey!

After you are finished with your
conversation, continue to the
right. Stop on the yellow
platform, which will lower to
the bottom. Jump off to the base
of the giant maze. From here it
is pretty simple to get back on
the floating platforms.

Its a long journey. I can assure
that fear now. Jump to the last
spinning platform then jump over
onto a long non-spinning
platform, which has a magic
carpet at the end of it.

Go to the end of this platform
then jump onto the magic carpet.
It will quickly begin to move
along its pre-determined rainbow
path, so you can clearly see
where it is going. You will
quickly get stuck infront of a
platform as the carpet goes
under it. Jump over the platform
and land back on the carpet. The
carpet will continue to wrap
around a 180 degree turn, and
you should gather a few Coins
along the way. Eventually you
will come to two short flat
platform. You need to jump over
both of them, and land back on
the carpet. Remember to keep on
your carpet. If you are off of
it for too long it will
disappear, leaving you screwed.
Eventually you'll reach the end
of the path.

Wait until your carpet reaches
the end of its path, then before
it falls quickly jump over to
the carpet on the left. I'm
assuming the camera is facing
the direction the original
carpet was going. Your new
carpet ride to the Cruiser has
begun again.

The first half of your second
capret ride is pretty calm. Just
sit back until the action
begins. Don't get too
conforatable. The tricky parts
come up just ahead. Eventually
you will begin circling around
several times around a small,
tall platform with two long
platforms sticking out of it.
You need to be careful here. The
two long platforms will push you
off the carpet if you don't jump
over them. At the bottom of the
circle they won't effect you,
but once you are their height
they will affect you. Quickly
jump over them until the path
straightens out again. Ignore
the blue flames again. They
can't hurt you.

Now you will go under a few
platforms. Well, at leat the
carpet will. The giant Cruiser
is also visible. The giant
wings, much like oars, of the
ship won't push you off, you
just go through them. Jump onto
the first platform, and say
goodbye to the carpet you won't
be seeing again. Make the Double
Jump to the second platform,
then perform the Triple Jump to
a much higher platform. Quickly
move here! They will begin to
fall down. Jump to the small
platform nearby. You know it is
the platform because it will
have a plank on it.

On the solid platform, simply
make your way slowly across the
wooden bridge to the Crusier,
then board it. Your finally on
the famed Cruiser of Rainbow
Ride! Again! The winds, the same
as you experienced from the
first Star, will quickly push
you to the back of the Cruiser.
Jump on the stern once you reach
it.

The winds will continue to push
you back. If left unnoticed, you
may be pushed right off the edge
of the ship. Make sure you get
pushed into the Cannon! Once you
are inside the cannon, look in
the distance for a large Rainbow
in the shape of a circle. This
is your destination. DON'T SHOOT
YET! You need to be able to make
out, far away, a purple pole on
the island. In order to land
safely on the island, you must
hit the pole and slide down. Aim
the center of the crosshairs
about 2/3rds up the pole. When
you think your safe, fire the
cannon!

Its a matter of life or death
now. Either you will soar far
over the pole, or you aimed too
low and will hit the base of the
island. Or maybe you were stupid
and went to the left or right of
the pole? All possible ways you
can die. If none of these apply
to you, you should be holding
onto the pole on the island. The
only thing on this island is a !
Yellow Block, holding your Star,
and a Chuck-Ya. What? You make
one wrong move now, Chuck-Ya
will fling you into oblivion.
When Chuck-Ya is far away from
you, slide down the pole and run
like hell to the Block, break it
open, and nab the Star. Nice
job! Pretty tough right? One
Star to go.

================================
Star 7-Switch Star of the Manor
Difficulty:**/***** Recommended
Character:Mario needed
================================
The final Star in Rainbow Ride!
Fortunately for you, its not too
hard to obtain. Wait, what
Manor? I'm not sure a one room
house with a fireplace that
wants to kill you is much of a
manor. Well, it's the same path
to the Manor. This Star will
play almost exactly like Big
House in the Sky. Once you start
you will be dropped onto a
platform. Turn around and you
will or should see a pole in the
distance. Use the shortcut
again. Get a running start on
your platform then do a Long
Jump all the way over to the
pole. You should hopefully
either grab the pole or land
right next to it and take a
little damage.

Once you are near the pole, or
on it, start climbing all the
way to the top of it. Once you
reach the top, simply perform a
jump onto the nearby platform,
or into the little basket you
are in. Jump to the long
platform, then run over until
you reach a series of spinning
platforms. Be very careful at
this part-there is a Lakitu
continually throwing Spinies
onto your position and you will
get hit if you stand still. Go
to the end of the first spinning
platform then jump to either the
left or right spinning
platforms. It makes no
difference which one you go to.
Then, Jump to the last spinning
platform then jump over onto a
long non-spinning platform,
which has a magic carpet at the
end of it.

Go to the end of this platform
then jump onto the magic carpet.
It will quickly begin to move
along its pre-determined rainbow
path, so you can clearly see
where it is going. You will
quickly get stuck infront of a
platform as the carpet goes
under it. Jump over the platform
and land back on the carpet. The
carpet will continue to wrap
around a 180 degree turn, and
you should gather a few Coins
along the way. Eventually you
will come to two short flat
platform. You need to jump over
both of them, and land back on
the carpet. Make sure you stay
on the carpet as much as
possible. As usual, if you are
off of it for too long it will
disappear The path splits ahead.
Face the direction the carpet is
going. Once you reach the two
carpets on the sides, jump to
the right one instead of the
left. This will make it start
moving, so be prepared! The path
to the Big House we go!

Hmph, not very intresting right?
The carpet begins, rather
quickly actually, to gain
altitude. The carpet goes right
through a large glass object
thingy, however you won't. In
order to get back on the carpet
you must jump over the object.
No easy feat. The easiest way is
to perform a backflip as soon as
the front of the carpet starts
going through the glass. You
will land on the top of the
glass, if not back on the carpet
on the other side. The carpet
will go through one more of
these things, so be ready.

Eventually the carpet will
(finally) enter the Big House in
the Sky once again. Nothing has
changed from before. Grab the
Mario Cap if you aren't Mario
right now, then hit the ? Red
Block. Now, activate the Switch
Star. The Switch is located on
the veranda outside. Hit it, run
back into the House, grab the
Power Flower, and mash B to
rise. Head through the hole in
the roof, and onto the roof
itself. Push R to end your
little balloon trip, and land on
the roof. Quickly run over to
the Star Dome, break it, and
grab the final Star!

================================
Star 8-Collect 100 Coins!
Difficulty:*****/*****
Recommended Character:Yoshi, but
character switches may be needed
================================
That's right! The 100 Coins
challenge in Rainbow Ride is
considered by most to be the
hardest Star in the game, and
for good reasons. There is a
limited amount of coins, unless
you like to play cheap. Not only
that, but since it is so easy to
fall and you will need to travel
everywhere to collect as many
coins as possible, you
constantly risk death, forcing
you to start the task all over
again. This is probably to only
time you don't want to take the
shortcut at the beginning as you
miss out on several coins.

Once you start, don't bother
with the pole behind you and
Long Jumping to it unless you
want to miss some Coins. Take
the first carpet and ride it
until a small block blocks you
and you must jump over it. Jump
on top of it and jump to the
circular platform with an Amp on
it. There is an 8-Coin circle,
so grab them quickly, then head
back onto the carpet. Ride it
until a fire emmitter starts
spewing fire on the carpet. Jump
over the flames and land back on
the carpet, then jump off on the
circular platforms. There are 2
platforms out of these 4 that
have a circle of 8 Coins on
them. Grab them easily. Then,
there is a Lakitu in this area
who is a pest. Stay in the
middle of one of the platforms
and jump up to hit Lakitu when
he is over you, then take his 5
Coins before they fall off the
edge of the level. After you get
these Coins head to the Red Coin
Maze.

Once on the platform at the
bottom of the maze, head past it
until you reach a spinning
heart, and a Blue Coin Switch!
Practice first as Mario, Wall
Kicking your way up the wall as
fast as you can. Fall back to
the bottom then activate the
switch. Grab the first Blue Coin
near where the switch was then
start Wall Kicking as fast as
you possibly can. At the top
there is a row of 5 more Blue
Coins, for a total of 30 Coins
in this area. Once you have all
of the Blue Coins head back to
the bottom of the maze. Double
Jump and grab onto the ledge to
the left for the first Red Coin.
Long Jump to the other side and
traverse the nearby platform for
another Red Coin, and another
just above it. Another Red Coin
is a Long Jump away near a fire
emmitter, and another needs a
Double Jump to reach. The last
you will need to lunge out to
reach. The Red Coin Star will
appear, but you have no need for
it. Head back to the spinning
platforms.

Head on to the spinning
platforms, and to the right. You
will eventually come to the pole
we always use to head down to
the lower area from the start.
Get onto it and slide down it.
There is a string of 5 Coins
here and a Fly Guy. Kill the Fly
Guy for 2 Coins and get the 5
Coins on the ground. On the
tilting platform head right and
jump to the next ledge. On the
swinging platform you should get
on you will encounter 5 Coins in
the air. Grab them all. Continue
the ride to the next platform,
leading to another tilting
platform and then donut blocks.
Quickly jump from one level of
donut blocks to the next until
you reach solid ground. Collect
the Coins on the blocks when you
can. On solid ground, jump the
gap to the next donut blocks
then wait for a platform to come
near you. Jump on it to the
other side, then climb up the
wooden planks to the swinging
platform that leads to Swingin'
In the Breeze Star. In the air
above the platform are 5 Coins.
Get them then head back to the
platform you were on. Head down
the wooden planks and to the
right some more. Jump across a
small gap to another donut
blocks and a small ramp with 5
Coins on it. Get them, then head
all the way back to the spinning
platforms.

Once back on these platforms
head across them to the other
side and then get on the carpet
that takes you further away.
Ride it around, collecting the
few Coins that come across your
path, jumping over platforms,
and just plain waiting around
for the oppertunity to switch
carpets. Once it comes, you have
2 options. Take the left carpet
to the flying ship. The ship has
a ring of 8 Coins, a Lakitu for
5 Coins, and a Bob-omb for a
total of 14 Coins. Or, you can
take the right carpet to the Big
House in the sky with 5 Coins
inside and 5 Coins in the air,
and 5 on another platform, for a
total of 15 coins. Its your
choice. Do whichever. The Coins,
like I just described, are in
plain view. Get there then claim
the Star.

Note:I have a record of 255
Coins on this Course. Have you
run out of places to find them
there Coins? Head up to the
Flying Ship with Yoshi, assuming
of course that you haven't
already killed the Lakitu. Grab
a Spiny, convert it to an egg,
get close to a wall far from the
Lakitu and let the egg fly and
hit the wall. A Coin pops out.
Simply repeat until you get the
Star. This can also be done with
the Lakitu near the circular
platforms at the beginning of
the level, but its a bit more
tedious as you have to grab a
Spiny and find a wall, the
nearest one being the Red Coin
Maze. No biggie, and no falling
off!

=========================
~Back in the Castle.....~
=========================
Alright! I do believe its high
time you wrapped this square
dance off with a showdown with
Bowser for old times sakes,
right? Near Rainbow Ride and
Tick Tock Clock are some stairs
leading to the final Big Star
Door. Enter it with 80 Stars and
Mario as your main character. If
your not Mario, then the stairs
leading to Bowser in the Sky go
forever (Oh, what memories). So
get ready to pummel Bowser once
and for all! The Endless
Staircase Skip glitch has been
removed, so don't waste your
time trying.

--------------------------------
    ~V S.Bowser in the Sky~
--------------------------------
And now it is time for the final
showdown! Once you have at least
80 Stars, head to the top floor
of the Castle. Behind the Star
door, and to the left are some
stairs leading a bit higher in
the room, leading to another
Star door. Enter it with Mario
(The other characters will
simply lead to the endless
staircase). Climb the short
hallway, then enter the hole
near the Bowser picture.

Now you will dropped onto the
Bowser in the Sky world. It's a
really big place. Time to get
started. Start by jumping over
each of the three gaps until you
reach a platform with a box. Run
past it onto a tilting platform.
Quickly run across this
platform. Then, you will need to
run up a huge hill like a ninja.
After that, the path will turn
north, and loop around a little.
Simple, really. Avoid the
Goomba's to avoid your imminent
death. Then, jump over a
spinning platform with an Amp on
it, then over another gap. A
Pirhana Plant will attack you
here. Run past it. You should be
near a rotating platform now.
Get on one of the 4 small
platforms on it and ride it to
the top. You should see a ledge
at the top-perform a Double Jump
up to it. It's just a shortcut.
Now, activate the nearby !
Switch to create a staircase to
the upper levels.

Now, you will have to go up a
large platform, and back down a
hill after a 180 degree turn.
The catch is that there are
those things spewing fire
practically everywhere. Be
careful here-you don't want to
fall off. Once past this another
Pirhana Plant will attack you,
run past it to a platform with
an arrow on it. Jump on it, and
it will begin moving. Jump over
the various platforms it goes
under until you reach a platform
with several Bob-omb's on it.
Run past them to a spinning
platform with a pole. Quickly
climb to the top and jump off.
Now, run forwards and grap onto
the next pole in the air. Jump
off to the other side, and run
forwards to the next rotating
platform. Get on it (Don't miss
this!) and ride it to the top,
then jump to the next spinning
platform. Finally, at the top,
jump off to the final platform.
Wind is guarding the Pipe, but
you can still run. One of the
pillars has a 1-Up Mushroom
behind it. So, if you die to
Bowser, you can always get this
Mushroom and never have to
restart this level! Jump into
the final Warp Pipe of the game.

Now you will drop to the final
Bowser greeting (Come on! What
happened to his pretty colors?).
There are 5 bombs surrounding
the arena this time instead of
eight, so you need to be
careful. Run over to a bomb and
crouch there. If Bowser starts
charging at you, backwards-
somersault over his head and
Bowser will be immobile at the
edge for a few seconds. Pick him
up by his tail and fling him
into the bomb. If Bowser doesn't
charge at all (Instead, doing
his shockwave attack over and
over again), then you're going
to have to beat him the old
fashioned way. Its a bit tedious
but it will eventually get the
job done. Once you have bombed
him once, repeat the same
pattern and bomb him again.
Bowser also has some new
attacks. He can spit a huge rain
of fire into the air, and make a
ton of fireballs land on the
ground. Green fireballs will
continue bouncing, red ones are
stationary.

He can create three small
fireballs that follow you for a
few seconds as well. Other than
that he will pretty much use
just those attacks. He can also
jump into the air and upon
landing, create two shockwaves
which will do minimal damage by
paralyze you for several
seconds. Jump over them. After
hitting him twice, Bowser will
get pissed off and destroy most
of the stage and shape it into a
Star. Now the battle is tough.
You have to grab Bowser, and
swing him really fast and
accurately throw him into a bomb
that is really far away. It's
not easy, especially if Bowser
covers the battlefield in fire,
then your as good as dead. Once
you happen to manage to hit
Bowser with one last bomb, he
will admit defeat and a giant
Star will appear. Go ahead, and
grab the Star! (This doesn't add
to your total Stars, though!).
Watch the ending cutscene, and
credits, then return back to
your file for more playing!

--------------------------------
    ~V T.All of the Castle Secre
--------------------------------
Hidden within the castle are 30
Castle Secret Stars. These Stars
don't count towards the total of
any course, but instead have a
catagory of their own. All 30
are hidden quite well, some are
hidden together with slightly
different objectives that need
to be completed. Here's a list
of all of the Castle Secret
Stars, in no particular order,
and how to complete them.
There's is no official name for
any of these Stars, so the names
will likely differ elsewhere.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #1:The
Princess's Secret Slide~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

This Star is pretty easy to
obtain. Go forward in the lobby
to the second floor of the
lobby, and head to the right and
enter the 1 Star Door. Upon
entering this door, head to the
right and you will see a picture
of Princess Peach looking
sideways holding flowers. Jump
into that stained glass painting
for a secret level. In this
secret level, you will find
yourself sitting at the top of a
rather large slide. Damn, that
sounds cool doesn't it? It's far
easier than the Cool, Cool
Mountain slide, so you should
have little difficulty in this
Star.

Head down the first ramp, and
you should notice the timer in
the top right corner of the
screen. Don't worry about that
until later. Go around the first
left sharp turn, about
270-Degrees or so until the wall
dissappears and won't reappear
for a little bit. You will slide
down a rather large hill,
followed by a 180-Degree right
turn, where you will pass
through a lot of coin strings
and a series of mini-hills.
Then, you will pass through a
quick left turn, then a right
turn, then another left turn,
and then it is a quick straight
slide to the finish line. After
crossing the finish line, jump
up onto the platform and break
the ! Box to open the Star,
claim it.

================================
~Castle Secret Star
#2:Princess's Secret Slide-Race
to the Finish!~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

You need to revisit the
Princess' Secret Slide for
another new Power Star. However,
there is a simple catch:You need
to finish in under 21 seconds.
Still think you can make it, hot
shot? No big deal actually. It
is very simple because there is
a big shortcut. Wario can't make
the shortcut though, so don't
bother with him. You can still
make it under 21 seconds without
the shortcut, if you are
incapable of doing it. Start out
by holding forwards and hugging
the inside walls. Keep building
you speed until the path
flattens out for a second and
the walls end. Right before the
first big hill, jump off to the
left. Keep a steady eye on the
Touch Screen Map to make sure
your aiming for another section
of track. Land on it, and
continue sliding to the finish.
You will make it in under 21
seconds with plenty of time to
spare and a new Power Star will
appear. If this method is too
hard, you can always try to beat
it the normal route way. Hug the
inside walls to save as much
time as possible. You should be
able to finish just over 20
seconds with the regular method.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #3:Sunshine
Isles~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

Head into the 1 Star Door in the
lobby, at the top-right corner
of it. Head straight through the
center door. This is the
Princess's Playroom. You should
notice to the left of the Toad
standing in the room is a
picture of a sunny island. Hop
into the portrait to get sent
into Sunshine Isles, a small
mini-world. There is only one
Power Star to be found in this
region though, but no matter.
You will start off on a small
island, with the Star Sphere
right near you. Let's get those
Silver Stars! Start off by
heading to the left onto the
nearby small island. Then, head
straight until you are upon a
tiny sand bar. It is upon this
sand bar you will find your
first Silver Star. Now, from
your location on the sand bar to
another island, that is short
though, should be pretty close
to you. It also has a palm tree
on it. Walk in the water over to
that palm tree island. Once you
are on that island, climb up the
palm tree until you are at the
very top. It is here you shall
find your second Silver Star.

Your next Silver Star from your
location is currently never in
an exact location. Klepto the
Vulture is flying around with
the Silver Star clawed firmly.
It is best advisible to just
stay in one place and wait for
him to fly over to where you
are. When he comes near jump up
and hit Klepto. He will get like
freaked out and drop the Silver
Star, which will start to bounce
around Sunshine Isles. Grab it
before it gets annoying to
catch, and that will be Silver
Star number three. Now, the last
two Silver Stars are pretty
close nearby, fortunately. Head
to the center and tall island,
and jump up the the very top of
it. It is here, bouncing happily
up and down, where your fourth
Silver Star lies. Now, jump off
of the island into the water,
and start circling around the
center islands base until you
find a tiny alcove in the bottom
of it. This is where your fifth
and final Star lies. Now, the
Power Star appears in the Star
Sphere near where we began. From
this point, head just back a few
feet and you should be there.
Claim the Star.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #4:The
Secret Aquarium~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

Near the door that leads back to
the lobby from Jolly Roger Bay
is a little hole in the wall.
Jump inside it for a seret Star
challenge. You are inside a
giant aquarium! There is no way
of getting any air. The object
is to collect all eight Red
Coins. Pretty simple really. No
detailed explainations can
really be given. Simply, there
are four circles of coins in the
upper half of the aquarium. In
the center of all four of these
coin circles lies a Red Coin.
After you have easily collected
four Red Coins, swim down to the
bottom of the aquarium. There
are another four Red Coins down
here. There is one Red Coin in
each corner of the room. After
you have collected all eight of
the Red Coins, your Star will
appear in the bottom, center of
the room. It should be easy from
there to grab the Star. Remember
that collecting Coins refills
your air meter, and that's the
only way you can keep getting
health in this mini-world.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #5:8 Red
Coins in Goomboss's Area~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

This Star lies within Goomboss's
Area. To get there, start off in
the lobby, and head to the
second floor of it and enter the
1 Star Door on the far right
side. Once inside, head straight
through the middle door into the
Princess's Play room. Head to
the right of the bouncing Toad,
and through the 8 Star Door. In
this next tiny room you should
see the Mario painting. This
leads to Goomboss's Area, so
jump in. You will appear in the
large level. Now, once again,
you have task of searching
frantically for another set of
eight Red Coins. Many of them
are hidden well, and you are
going to need to use every
character for the job. Wario to
break some bricks, Mario to
float up high, Luigi to move
quickly while invisible, and
Yoshi for, making the rest of
the jumps rather simple. Start
off as usual by sliding down to
log and moving around to the
left. Kill that Goomba if he is
in your way.

After you pass the above part,
keep heading straight until you
find the giant log stump
platforms moving up and down.
They subcede into the water,
then come back up onto dry land.
Jump onto the first moving
platform as it is going up.
Then, jump onto the second
platform as it is receding down,
now quickly jump onto the third
platform. If you can't, keep
yourself in the air to avoid
falling onto the stump which is
in the poisonous water. After
getting past the third log, jump
onto solid land for your next
task, collecting a Red Coin!

All right. You are away from the
daunting water of death. What
now? Look to your left and you
should see a small platform
going back and forth to where
near you are standing now, and
into the empty abyss. When that
small platform comes back to
you, jump onto it and wait until
it takes you over the abyss.
Now, another platform is coming
your way too. When it is right
next to your platform jump onto
it carefully, and ride it over
to a small tree stump with a
lone Goomba and a black brick.
The Goomba standing around there
will be wearing a Wario Cap, but
only if you aren't Wario right
now. Grab the Cap and destroy
the black brick for your first
Red Coin. Seemingly daunty task
now, right?

Carefully head back over the
platforms, making sure not to
fall off into the abyss. When
you get back to solid land, head
straight until you see a
sleeping Pirhana Plant to your
right, and a wire mesh net right
behind it. Grab onto the wire
net and hand over hand, move all
the way over to the other side.
However, along the way in the
middle of the net, you will find
your second Red Coin. Collect
it, and go back to where you
came (The spot before you jumped
for the wire net).

That's two Red Coins already!
Now, head straight along the
path, killing the Pirhana Plant
along the way if you feel like
it, or if you need health. Climb
up the very tall pole. There
will be a Lakitu circling around
you now, but you can simply
ignore him because he can't do
anything while you are climbing
the tall pole. Climb quickly (By
holding Y and climbing the pole)
until you reach the very top.
Pretty damn great view, isn't
it? On this circular log is a
small branch extending out (Not
the wooden bridge you may also
see!). At the tip of this branch
lies your third Red Coin. After
you retrieve this Red Coin, go
back to the pole and slide all
the way back down the pole back
to the log where the Pirhana
Plant used to be. More Red Coins
coming up!

Now that you are on this log,
jump back to the checkered-
colored pathways and head
towards the left, to where the
pathway will quickly become
narrow. Destroy any annoying
boxes that may get in your way,
and keep following the path
until there are two directions
to go-left or right. Choose to
go left and continue following
the path, still getting rid of
useless boxes that may block
your path. Follow the path some
more and it will appear as to
come to a dead end. However, the
seemingly "wall" that signifies
the dead end is actually a big
tree stump moving up and down.
When it stops at the bottom for
a second or two, jump onto it
and ride it to the top. At the
apex of the stump's travels, you
will find the fourth Red Coin in
mid air. You can jump to get it,
but a Backflip is the best way
to ensure you grab it. That's
four down!

After retrieving your fourth Red
Coin, head back onto the tree
stump and wait for it to reach
ground level again, then hop off
of it. Now, it is a bit of a
long path to the fifth Red Coin.
Follow the pathway, to the right
instead of left when you get to
the fork again. Keep following
the winding pathway, with moving
platforms to add to the
annoyance until you come across
a wide section of platform. Head
to the left, where you will see
a sleeping Pirhana Plant. Kill
it if you feel like it, then
head behind it and you will see
the Blue Star Marker, marking
where the Star will appear after
the eight Red Coins are found.
Head behind it to find five logs
that are moving up and down, and
go way out over the pit of
emptiness. Carefully navigate
over all five logs and you will
be on the last platform, with
another sleeping Pirhana Plant
(Is this their home or
something?). Kill it to easily
clear the path for the prize
that is behind it-your fifth Red
Coin. Be careful!

That's another Red Coin down!
The remaining three are all in
the same area, but require Mario
and Luigi to get. After
collecting your fifth Red Coin,
head across the logs again (You
should notice they are actually
in-sinc with eachother to create
the path back easier). Once you
are on the other side, take a
left until you reach a pretty
big gap over the poisonous
water. Long Jump over it, until
you are on a realitvely large
platform, with a small, tilting
diamond shaped platform in the
middle of it. Jump onto the
small diamond-shaped and tilting
platform. You can see the sixth
Red Coin lying just within a
jump's reach hovering above the
diamond platform.

Nearby is a Goomba wearing a
Mario Cap if you aren't already
him yet. You need Mario for the
following Red Coin. The stupid
Goomba should be within a few
feet or so of your current
location on the platform. If
there is no Mario Cap lying
nearby, either you already are
Mario or you have just
overlooked the Goomba. Look at
the touch screen to pinpoint the
Mario Cap. You may need to beat
Goomboss first to unlock the cap
here. Locate the Mario Cap, and
rush over to it and grab it. If
there really is no Mario Cap
here, then you must beat
Goomboss if you haven't already.
From where you should be near
the diamond shaped platform,
look around and nearby you
should see some more diamond-
shaped tilting platforms all
lined up, and they connect to a
log far away in the distance.
Hop aboard the tilting platform
(The tilt is pointless if you
are worried about falling off
into the abyss. You can't fall
off these platforms unless you
walk off by accident). Then jump
to the next platform, and then
to the final one, and then hop
to the small log. All there is
here is a lonely signpost and a
? Red Block. Hit the block and
recieve the Power Flower that
pops out of it. Now, quickly
push B to keep floating upwards.
Aim for the very top of the
gigantic tree stump that isn't
moving. Once you reach the very
tip top of the tree stump, you
can't posssibly miss the Red
Coin lying in the middle.

Now you are only one Red Coin
away from another Star! Jump off
of the giant tree towards land,
and make sure to Ground Pound
before slamming onto the ground
to not lose four Bars of Health
(It is a rather large fall).
Anyways, turn right near that
lonely diamond shaped platform
and kill the nearby Goomba for a
Luigi Cap, which you need to
earn the last Red Coin. If that
Goomba isn't there, look at the
Touch Screen Map until you find
the Luigi Hat. It's always there
even if you haven't unlocked
him. Head back across those
three diamond shaped tilting
platforms. Well what do you
know? You happen to be right
back on the small log containing
the Red ? Block you hit eariler.
Get ready for a quick race!

Hit the ? Red Block and get the
Power Flower that falls from it
to recieve the power of being
invisible. You don't have very
much time, only 15 or so
seconds. You need to hurry! Head
quickly across those three
tilting diamond shaped platforms
again. After you do that, head
to the left and keep going until
you are at the base of the giant
tree stump. Stand in the middle
of it, then do a high Backflip.
You will see a wire gate on this
small ledge you are currently
standing on. Because of the fact
you are invisible, you can, with
ease, go right through the gate
and collect the last and final
and eigth Red Coin that simply
lies there. If you are trapped
inside the gate right now, then
grab the Power Flower in the red
? block to get out.

Now, it is a matter of actually
getting the Power Star that
appeared. It is actually close
by. You even saw that Blue Star
Marker before, right? After
jumping off of the not high up
ledge, make your way to the left
and cross the gap with a Long
Jump when it appears. Cross
along the narrow and winding
platforms until you reach those
moving up and down tree stumps
again. Your Power Star is
waiting there!

================================
~Castle Secret Star #6:Wall Kick
Switch Star in Goomboss's Area~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

This Star is located in
Goomboss's Area, naturally.
Start off in the lobby, and head
to the second floor of it and
enter the 1 Star Door on the far
right side. Once inside, head
straight through the middle door
into the Princess's Play room.
Head to the right of the
bouncing Toad, and through the 8
Star Door. In this next tiny
room we gonna see some tables
and chairs, and a Mario
painting. Jump through it to
enter Goomboss's Area.

You have to use Mario for this
Star. Quite obviously, as the
title states, only he can do the
stupendous Wall Kick. So it is
best that you enter Goomboss's
Area as Mario to make this Star
short and easy to get. You can
also get his Cap if you aren't
already playing as him. Start
out as usual at the top of the
log, so slide down it to the
first platform. Instead of
taking the path to the left as
usual, go straight across the
short gap and follow the mild
path to the right. Keep going
and going. By the time you meet
back up with the main path you
should see a very narrow path
that is a hill going upwards.
That hill leads to your
destination, so it should be
fairly simple to figure out what
to do.

Walk up the short path. By the
time you reach the top, the
platform will flatten and get a
little wider. There will be a
Pirhana Plant sleeping soundly
up here. Kill it. No risk of
falling off this high platform
thanks to no more Pirhana
Plants. Cross the diamond shaped
platforms very carefully to
reach another platform, quite
high up above land. Although
they tilt a bit, they won't fall
off their little stand. The only
real way you can fall off of
these platforms is if you
intentionally fall off. Anyways,
head to the right when you are
on this platform making sure to
not fall off (It is wide so that
isn't a problem, unless you are
rushing this Star) until you
reach a little bit of pathway
sticking out. It is here where
the Star Switch of Goomboss's
Area is located. Ready for a
little fun?

As Mario (If you aren't Mario,
grab the Mario Cap a Goomba is
wearing a little while back),
activate the switch. You will
see the Star appear in what
seems to be a cage, but that
isn't much of a problem. After
hitting the switch, run all the
way to the end of the platform,
making sure you don't bump into
those Goombas to stall up time
(You have to be quick). Then,
the bottom of the "cage" should
be infront of you. Jump onto the
wall infront of you, and do a
wall kick to the other side of
the cage. Keep doing this
quickly, tilting in the
direction you wanna go after
each Wall Kick until you finally
reach the very top of the cage.
Quickly now, jump into the Star
Sphere to break it and claim yet
another Power Star.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #7:Red Coins
in the Courtyard~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

All around the Courtyard is a
ton of Boo's. I mean a lot (And
the Big Boo in the corner of
course). Most of the Boo's have
Yellow Coins inside them, which
can only be gotten after
Punching/Ground Pounding them to
death, which they will then
drop. However, eight Boo's
contain Red Coins instead of
Yellow Coins inside them. This,
fortunately, is such an easy Red
Coin mission I don't think I
need to explain to you how to do
it. Boo's will float towards you
while your back is turned away
from them, however, you still
may run into a bit of trouble
with finding all of them.

If you face a Boo, it will
become transparent in fright. Oh
boy. If you get hurt by a Boo in
its normal state, that's 2
Health Bars ticked off. However,
there's infinite life here.
Simply, jump into the water
around the Eternal Star statue,
float at the surface, and wait
for your health to be
replenished back to full. Pretty
darned simple, isn't it?
Anyways, right past the door
when you enter the Courtyard a
Boo will begin coming towards
you right then. He contains Red
Coin #1. There are a few Boo's
in the water, but none have Red
Coins, however. To the right end
of the Courtyard are around 5-7
Boo's just wondering around with
no intention. Three of them have
Red Coins inside of them, so I
think you know the drill. A hop,
spin, pound. Then, head behind
the Star Statue for another Boo
with another Red Coin. Now you
have three left to find. Head to
the left side of the Courtyard
for where the Big Boo is
located, and there are another
bunch of Boo's. The final three
Red Coins are inside some of
them. After collecting all 8 Red
Coins, head over and grab the
Power Star that appears behind
the Star Statue (It probably
would have made more sense above
the statue).

Just as a note, it has been
rumored that this Star is
impossible after a period of
time. The Red Coins in the Boo's
are said to disappear making the
Star ungettable. This rumor has
been confirmed to be complete
bull. There is no way to make
this Star disappear into thin
air. It is simply impossible to
do that. If the Boo's aren't
holding Red Coins, then you
already have this Star. Do not
whine, complain, or even think
there is a glitch preventing you
from earning the Star. You
already have it. End of story.
If you are missing a Castle
Secret Star, then it must be
another one if the Red Coins
aren't here.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #8:Silver
Stars in the Battle Fort~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

I find this Secret Star quite
fun to earn. Sadly, you can't be
Yoshi to obtain this Star, so do
make sure you aren't him. This
Star is located in the Courtyard
of the Castle. Once you reach
the Courtyard, head to the upper
right corner of it, and head
near a small pile of bricks.
Punch several of the bricks.
Once of them was covering a
small hole in the ground. Jump
in the hole.

You will be transported to the
Battle Fort. For those who have
played multiplayer, this is one
of the levels. As the name of
the Star implies, you need to
collect all 5 Silver Stars of
the land in order to claim your
prize. Start off by heading
forwards towards a pole in the
distance. Once you reach the
pole, climb to the top of the
pole. When you reach the top,
you should easily see a nearby
Silver Star just waiting to be
captured. Just 4 left to go!
Jump right off the wire grating
back to the ground. Look around
for a nearby Goomba, walking
aimlessly with no intention of
doing anything but to annoy you.
The Goomba is probably thinking
you'll never think to jump on
him for the Silver Star. Do just
that. Go right over to him and
jump on him and claim the Silver
Star.

Now you only need 3 more Silver
Stars. From where you are, run
over to each corner of the
Battle Fort. One of the 4
corners has several crates
around it. Simply destroy the
crates. One of them will reveal
the 3rd Silver Star once
destroyed.

Now simple 2 more Stars remain.
The 4th is guarded by another
Goomba in the level, however, I
find its impossible to determine
this one's exact location. Look
at your map for a moving Silver
Star and run over to it- that
will most likely be the Goomba
you are looking for. Defeat the
Goomba and claim the 4th Silver
Star.

And the final Silver Star is,
once again, in the corner of the
Battle Fort. Look at the map
again to see which corner hides
the last Silver Star and then
run over to it. Destroy the
crates again, and recover the
last Silver Star. The real Power
Star will appear in the Star
Sphere is in a different corner
of the Battle Fort. It's in the
corner opposite of the the last
Silver Star. Go collect your
prize. Make sure not to lose any
Silver Stars along the way from
taking damage or the Power Star
will dissappear until you have
all five again.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #9:8 Red
Coins Hidden in Bowser in the
Dark World~
================================
Difficulty:***/*****

Once you have obtained 12 or
more Power Stars, you can open
the Big Star Door on the Castle
Lobby and go to Bowser in the
Dark World. Simply walk down the
hallway until you fall through a
trapdoor. Simple as that, and
you're in the Dark World.

Also in the Dark World is a host
of Red Coins, all ready for a
Star to appear. Let's go get
them! Start off by running along
the path until you reach a fire
emitter. Step on the ! Switch
when it isn't making fire. This
activates two nearby platforms
giving access to two Red Coins.
First, there is a Red Coin
straight down from the fire
emitter. Cross the platform to
reach it. Quickly, now, make
your way back to the beginning
of the course (Try not to get
burned along the way!) to find
another platform with a Red Coin
at the end of it (Shift the
camera to get a more visible
view if you don't see it right
away). The platforms don't last
forever, so if you feel like
your not going to make it,
simply press the ! Switch again.
You don't have any time limits.

Now you can continue along with
the level. Keep following the
linear path, past several fire
emitters, and over a rotating
platform. Ignore the Goomba's on
the next platform and keep going
over a bridge to a twisted path
with a green floor. Behind one
of the crystals on this path is
the third Red Coin. Get it
without getting hurt by the
Amp's.

The next Red Coin is nearby, and
not too hard to get. Keep going
along your merry way until you
reach a yellow platform jutting
in and out of a wall to serve as
a platform to and from a small
platform above it. Cross over to
the middle platform, then as the
yellow platform is coming out on
the other side, drop down to
obtain the fourth Red Coin. Jump
over to the next platform.

Now you will be near 2 rotating
platforms. Get on one of them
and follow it around. If your
facing away from the
aforementioned yellow platform,
stand in the bottom left-ish
corner of the platform. Stay
there for a few moments as the
platform rotates around.
Eventually you will pass right
through the fifth Red Coin.

Now you only need three more Red
Coins! Head over the next pair
of rotating platforms to reach
the main, central platform with
a few Goomba's on it. Kill them
so you don't risk getting
killed, then rotate the camera
around to the left of the
platform. You will see a small,
thin brown plank leading to a
big circular platform. Walk onto
the nearby plank and carefully
walk to the big platform. Once
there, simply jump to obtain the
sixth Red Coin. Head back to the
central platform.

Now, jump onto the first tilting
platform and quickly run to the
other end. Then jump to the next
titling platform. Quickly run
again to the other end. If you
made it quick enough, you should
be able to jump to a semi-higher
platform. Do so.

Once here, turn around, facing
the opposite direction of the
pipe to Bowser. If you change
the camera angle to this
direction (And you should) you
will see several other platforms
in the distance. If you are
Yoshi, you can easily perform
Flutter Kicks to each platform
until you reach the end. If you
are anybody else, you need to
use Long Jumps. On the last
platform, grab the 7th Red Coin.

From here, Jump down onto the
platform beneith you (Use 1st
Person View to make your jump
accurately). If the Goomba's are
still there when you get down on
the platform, kill them. Now,
this is a very tricky Coin to
get, so try not to fall here.
Look a little bit to the north
of the tilting platforms to see
a very narrow walkway infront of
the wall. Take this walkway. Hug
the wall. There are several
openings so you can take a
breather. One of these areas
contains a 1-Up Mushroom, and
the other happens to contain the
final Red Coin.

Finally you have all 8 Red
Coins. The Power Star appears
right behind the pipe to Bowser.
From here, walk the last narrow
pathway to the nearby stairs.
Climb a few platforms to reach
the ! Switch. This will activate
the nearby stairs so you can
climb them. Do so to reach the
very top of the level. Be sure
to not go in the pipe, or you
will have to collect all of the
Coins all over again. From here
simply run behind the pipe and
grab the Power Star. Hope that
wasn't too hard!

================================
~Castle Secret Star #10:8 Red
Coins in the Tower of the Wing
Cap~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

Okay. This is a fairly annoying
Star to get. You need to be
Mario for this Star as only
Mario can really do this.
Anyways, once you have at least
14 Power Stars, there will be a
light shining on a sun icon in
the Castle Lobby. As Mario,
stand on the sun and look up at
the light to be transported to
the Tower of the ? Switch. Press
the giant red Switch to activate
all Red ? Blocks. You can re-
enter this level as much as you
like. As Mario, there are 8 Red
Coins in the air around the
tower. Sounds simple, doesn't
it? However, you have to use the
initial Wing Cap you are given
to complete this challenge. The
reason is because the Tower is
too low to get enough height to
round up all of the Coins. From
where you start flying, you will
quickly need to make to nosedive
slightly to the right. You will
be going very fast when you plow
into the first pair of Red
Coins. After getting the first 2
Coins, the rest are very easy.
Just follow the pattern of
Yellow Coins around the level,
running into the Red Coins when
you get to them. Once you have
them all, the Star will appear
on the middle tower near the ?
Switch. Go ahead and grab it.
Jump out of the level if you
mess up. You don't lose a life
for it.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #11:Red
Coins Hidden in the Maze of King
Boo Battle~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

This Secret Star lies inside the
King Boo Battle level. This is
also where you unlocked Luigi.
To get here, head right to Big
Boo's Haunt. From there, enter
the Mansion. Head up the stairs
to the second floor, and to the
furthest right door. Head past
the bookshelves in the next
room, but don't turn the corner.
Instead, jump onto a small ledge
in the very corner of the room.
Perform a Backflip up onto the
third floor of the mansion.
However, if you can't do so,
then as Mario grab a Power
Flower and Balloon up there. I
don't think Wario has the
ability to get up here, though.
Anyways, go right through the
third floor door, and you should
see the painting of Luigi. Go
jump through it.

You will appear on Big Boo's
Merry Go Round, or so you think.
This is the Big Boo Battle
level, even though the boss
resembles King Boo. 8 Red Coins
lurk around this world, and you
need to find them. Start off by
going straight across where you
start for the first Red Coin,
then go out the door. You will
re-appear at the beginning of
the course. This time, head out
the door on the right.

This next room has four
collapsing bridges, and two Red
Coins in here. Head right across
the first bridge to the middle
of the room, and grab the Red
Coin that lies there. Now, head
off to the bridge on the right.
Grab the Red Coin that lies
here. Since you pretty much
trapped ourselves on this ledge
(Wasn't that smart thinking on
our part?), you have no choice
but to go through the door. And
what do you know? You're back at
the beginning, once again. You
must be Mario to get several Red
Coins from now on, so grab his
Cap from the left doorway. Then,
head back out through the right
door. This time in the next
room, head to the center
platform and go across the left
bridge and out the door once you
reach it.

You are now in the third room of
the level. Jump over to the
middle platform, and under the ?
Red Block. Quickly grab the
Power Flower inside. Or at the
very least, keep jumping. The
middle of this platform has a
tilted floor and if you stand on
it too long you will fall into
the bottomless pit and go back
to the beginning of the level.
So, grab the Power Flower as
Mario and float to all of the
corners of the room. Once of the
corners has a Red Coin in it.
Grab it. Now, float over to one
of the platforms with the doors
that has a Red Coin on it.
Collect the Red Coin, then
proceed through the door on that
platform.

This next room is full of moving
platforms, and has two more Red
Coins. Ride the first moving
platform and collect the Red
Coin that it passes under. Once
it reaches the next platform,
jump off onto it. There is
another moving elevator attached
to this platform. Get on the
platform and start riding it
over to the next platform. Once
you are there, ride it over to
the next platform. Be sure to
grab the Wario Cap that is on
this platform, because you will
need it for the last Red Coin.
Lastly, ride the last platform
to the next platform. Go through
the door here.

This is the last room of the
level. Look to the right and you
will see a Black Brick Block.
Since you are Wario, you can
punch these blocks. Punch the
block and it will reveal the
final Red Coin. Go collect it,
and the location of the Power
Star will be revealed. Heh, its
right next to you. Go five steps
backwards and collect the Star.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #12:Luigi's
Quick Sprint in the King Boo
Battle Area~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

Welcome to King Boo's area!
Seems simple when you first get
dropped into a room similar to
Big Boo's Merry Go Round. there
are 4 doors. Does it matter
which one you choose? Actually,
it does. Three doors are fakes.
Enter them and you will reappear
where you are now. One door
leads to the next room, so keep
doing that until you reach the
area with this Secret Star. From
where you start, head inside the
door to the right and enter
inside it. You will be taken to
the next room. Keep in mind that
if you lose all of your health,
or fall into a pit, you will be
sent back to the start of this
mini-world. Run across the
platform to the center platform,
avoiding the collapsing bridges
tumbling. At the Mr. I platform,
take the collapsing bridge to
the left. Hurry and get across
there and into the door to the
next room.

In this next room, there is a
square platform in the middle
with a ? Red Block on it. Under
the block is another tilting
floor. Long Jump to this middle
platform. Get the Power Flower
inside, and hurry with the rest
of this before it ends! Remember
that you must be Luigi for this
to work. Long Jump to the ledge
on the right and enter the door
there to be transported to the
next room. There are another 4
ledges with doors, but no center
platform. Instead, there are
several moving platforms. Look
to the left, and get a running
start. Long Jump over to the
platform on the left.

Now you will enter a rather thin
but large room. There is a huge
chasm infront of you, with a
very long collapsing bridge
across it. Hurry up and run
right across the huge gap. Once
you reach the end, jump through
the Boo painting and you will be
in a secret room. A Power Star
is right here so grab it, and
exit the world or defeat King
Boo, whichever is your pleasure.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #13:8 Red
Coins Behind the Waterfall~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

I love secret levels hidden
already in a level. It is likely
you already found this place, so
all you need to do is go back
here via Hazy Maze Cave. If you
haven't been to this world, read
on. Enter Hazy Maze Cave in the
basement of the Castle. As
always there are two ways to go
from the start. Head left. Get a
running start and Long Jump
across the large chasm, then
head through the door on the
other side.

Now you are in the black hole
room. Follow the red, grated
path around to the right, and
try to avoid the spiders and
bats that attack you-they will
push you off into the black hole
if you aren't careful. Once you
reach the area where the giant
boulders are falling from, stick
to the left wall. Its a much
safer place than the right wall.
Restore your health with the
heart, and follow around the
corner and through the next
door.

You are in the transport to the
underground lake where Dorrie
resides. On the other side of
the wire grating is a Star you
have probably already gotten.
Head down the elevator. Jump off
of it and Ground Pound before
hitting the ground to avoid
damage.

Follow the brown path on the
ground towards the water. Kill
any of the wondering Goomba's
for health if you need it, then
jump into the water and swim
over to Dorrie. He will probably
have the Wario Cap on his head
if you aren't Wario. If he
doesn't, it doesn't matter. Swim
over to him and get on his back
and Ground Pound it. This will
have him lower his neck so you
can get on his head. Do so, and
get the Wario Cap (If it is
there).

Wait a few seconds for Dorrie to
left his head. You can now
control the direction he moves
by facing any direction, and
Dorrie will swim that way. You
need to direct him towards a
small piece of land jutting out
from the wall, high out of the
water where some double doors
lie. Its a bit tricky trying to
control Dorrie, but you have to
do it. Just remember that if you
face something like left, Dorrie
will continue to go left until
you face forwards or another
direction. Seriously, it can be
annoying controlling him. Just
hurry up and make it over to the
double doors.

Once you reach the double doors
island, Jump off of Dorrie onto
it, and go through the doors.
Walk through the really short
hallway. You will eventually
come to an opening with a weird
metallic liquid, much like the
entrance to Hazy Maze Cave. Jump
into it.

Now you are in cave behind the
waterfall. The suction flow is
absurdly fast and powerful here,
so don't fall into the water,
otherwise you will be quickly
pulled out of the cavern. If
that happens, you will reappear
out of the waterfal infront of
the castle. So, simply from the
start head forward until you
reach the river. It doesn't look
to fun to swim in. Just don't
touch it because your life
depends on it. Anyways, face
upstream, and jump to the nearby
platform. Kill the nearby
Sniffit, and then jump onto the
next island nearby.

On this small platform there is
a thin little bridge nearby.
Head across the bridge and don't
fall in the water! Once across
the bridge you should be right
next to a little area inside the
wall. In this little hole are a
few pillars, a 1-Up Mushroom,
and 2 Red Coins. Grab
everything, then proceed to the
next platform.

This platform contains nothing,
so jump to the next platform
(Don't fall into the water
here). This platform has a
Goomba wearing a Wario Cap if
you aren't him already. Kill the
Goomba then grab the Wario Cap
(Before it falls into the
water!) before moving on.

Jump onto the final platform.
For those who have played the
orginal Super Mario 64, this
platform held the giant Green ?
Switch. Now it only has 2 Red
Coins. Grab them both, then grab
the Power Flower inside the ?
Red Block as Wario to become
Metal Wario. Once you are metal,
jump into the water. You sink
like a rock. There is limited
time, so don't waste any of it.
The remaining four Red Coins are
circled around this last
platform. Run around the
platform, collecting them all.
The Power Star will finally
appear once you have all of the
Coins. It appears underwater,
right behind the last platform.
You should be able to easily
reach it from here. It isn't too
much of a hassle.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #14:Mario's
Balloon Trip Behind the
Waterfall~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

You're going to the exact same
place as the previous Star. Same
copied description up until the
part where you need Mario. Its
much easier than the previous
Star, that be true.

Enter Hazy Maze Cave in the
basement of the Castle. As
always there are two ways to go
from the start. Head left. Get a
running start and Long Jump
across the large chasm, then
head through the door on the
other side.

Now you are in the black hole
room. Follow the red, grated
path around to the right, and
try to avoid the spiders and
bats that attack you-they will
push you off into the black hole
if you aren't careful. Once you
reach the area where the giant
boulders are falling from, stick
to the left wall. Its a much
safer place than the right wall.
Restore your health with the
heart, and follow around the
corner and through the next
door.

You are in the transport to the
underground lake where Dorrie
resides. On the other side of
the wire grating is a Star you
have probably already gotten.
Head down the elevator. Jump off
of it and Ground Pound before
hitting the ground to avoid
damage.

Follow the brown path on the
ground towards the water. Kill
any of the wondering Goomba's
for health if you need it, then
jump into the water and swim
over to Dorrie. He will probably
have the Wario Cap on his head
if you aren't Wario. If he
doesn't, it doesn't matter. Swim
over to him and get on his back
and Ground Pound it. This will
have him lower his neck so you
can get on his head. Do so, and
get the Wario Cap (If it is
there).

Wait a few seconds for Dorrie to
left his head. You can now
control the direction he moves
by facing any direction, and
Dorrie will swim that way. You
need to direct him towards a
small piece of land jutting out
from the wall, high out of the
water where some double doors
lie. Its a bit tricky trying to
control Dorrie, but you have to
do it. Just remember that if you
face something like left, Dorrie
will continue to go left until
you face forwards or another
direction. Seriously, it can be
annoying controlling him. Just
hurry up and make it over to the
double doors.

Once you reach the double doors
island, Jump off of Dorrie onto
it, and go through the doors.
Walk through the really short
hallway. You will eventually
come to an opening with a weird
metallic liquid, much like the
entrance to Hazy Maze Cave. Jump
into it.

Now you are in cave behind the
waterfall. The suction flow is
absurdly fast and powerful here,
so don't fall into the water,
otherwise you will be quickly
pulled out of the cavern. If
that happens, you will reappear
out of the waterfal infront of
the castle. So, simply from the
start head forward until you
reach the river. It doesn't look
to fun to swim in. Just don't
touch it because your life
depends on it. Anyways, face
upstream, and jump to the nearby
platform. Kill the nearby
Sniffit, and then jump onto the
next island nearby.

Now you are in cave behind the
waterfall. The suction flow is
quite rapid here, so don't fall
into the water. If you do, you
will be sucked out of the
waterfall and will land outside
of the castle. So, simply from
the start head forward until you
reach the river. Don't get into
it. Just don't do it because
your life depends on it.
Anyways, face upstream, and jump
to the nearby platform. Kill the
nearby Sniffit, and then jump
onto the next island nearby.

On this small platform there is
a thin little bridge nearby.
Head across the bridge and don't
fall in the water! Continue past
the hole in the wall, and jump
over onto the next platform.
Kill the Goomba if you want,
grab the nearby Mario Cap if you
already aren't the mustached
hero, and head to the final
platform. Here, grab the Power
Flower inside the ? Red Block
and quickly start floating
upwards. Keep mashing B. You
will pass through a chain of
coins resembling an up arrow.
Eventually you will run right
into the Power Star. Yay for
you!

================================
~Castle Secret Star #15:8 Red
Coins on Moving Platforms Under
the Moat~
================================
Difficulty:***/*****

This Castle Secret Star is
located beneath the moat, so you
need to have drained that first
off. Second, in order to access
this area you must be Wario. So
go switch to him in the
Character Rooms, then head
outside as Wario and into the
moat. Find a Black Brick Block
and break it, and go down the
revealed hole.

You will be dropped onto a huge
slide, well the top of it at
least. This is the old Vanishing
Cap level from the orginal Super
Mario 64. Heh, what memories.
Start off by falling down the
slide right where you are
standing, and holding up making
you slide down a bit more
slowly. You should land on a
platform with the 1st Red Coin.

From here, three more Red Coins
are on the slide. It is
basically a look a different
direction and change the camera
angle-type thing. From where you
are, face away from the left
wall and hold L to make the
camera behind you. Another
platform slightly further down
should be visible, and it has a
Red Coin on it. Get a running
start then jump over to it
(Don't miss!) and collect the
Red Coin.

Once you have secreted the 2nd
Red Coin, turn the camera around
until you see the next platform,
which has a ! Yellow Block on
it. Jump over onto that nearby
platform. Break the block for a
few Coins if you wish, then look
around for another nearby
platform that has a 1-Up
Mushroom on it. Run and jump
onto that nearby platform. Grab
the Mushroom once you are on the
platform, then head right off
the side of the platform. Hold
up again to slow your decent on
the slide, and you should run
right onto the next platform
with the 3rd Red Coin.

Now, there are 2 platforms to
the side of this platform. If
you take one side you will goto
a ! Yellow Block. Not something
you want right now. Head to the
other platform, which contains
the fourth Red Coin. Once you
have obtained that, slide all
the way to the bottom level.

Once you reach the very bottom
of the slope, simply ignore the
? Red Block that is down there,
and grab the Mario Cap because
you are going to be using some
fine jumping. Head away from the
Red Block and around the corner.
Keep running! There are a ton of
those black ball things that
shoot fire when close to them.
Eventually you should hopefully
reach a tilting platform. Jump
onto it then while the other end
is high in the air, run and Jump
up to the next ledge.

Now things from here on out get
a bit trickier. Keep running on
this next platform to the end of
it, then jump up to the next
platform. Ignore the ! Yellow
Block and wait at the end of the
platform near some rotating
platforms and jump on one when
it is close to you.

Simply wait for this moving
block to reach the very top of
its run, and then jump up to the
nearby wooden plank/tilting
platform, grabbing the fifth Red
Coin in the air as your jumping.
Run all the way to the end of
this platform and grab the sixth
Red Coin.

Once you have obtained the sixth
Red Coin, simply wait on the end
of the tilting platform for the
next platform to rotate towards
you so you can jump onto it.
Obviously get on one once you
can easily jump to it from your
position. If the platform tilts
too much in your direction, then
head to the other end to make it
all even again then wait near
the next set of platforms. Jump
on the one closest to you.

This next set of moving
platforms is a bit tricky, so
listen closely. At the top of
your moving platforms you need
to quickly jump off onto the
next set of platforms. This is
because the platform you are on
will flip over once it reaches
the other side. In other words,
you will just die. So make sure
to pull off this jump because
you don't have much of a choice.
It isn't that hard to be honest.

Ride this platform to the very
top of its route. The seventh
Red Coin is located between the
gap inbetween the set of
platforms your on and the next
once you need to Jump to. If you
don't think you can make the
jump, wait until you reach the
top of the loop again to try the
jump. You can easily die here,
so try not to miss.

By now you should be sick of
moving platforms. Luckily, this
is the last one. Simply wait
until the platform you are on
goes as high as it can, then
jump off onto the nearby solid
platform. Grab the nearby Luigi
Cap and get ready for the last
Red Coin.

Once your Luigi, head right over
to the ? Red Block and grab a
Power Flower from it. Luigi will
become invisible. You can now
walk through walls here.
Continue along the path and walk
through the metal gratings you
come across and you will easily
walk into the final Red Coin.
The Power Star will appear
inside the next cage. Hopefully
your power hasn't run out now!
Keep walking to the last cage
and grab the Power Star. There
is a hole nearby you need to use
to exit the level. Of course,
only use it after you have the
Power Star or this will have
been a whole waste of time for
you to have read and accompish.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #16:Mario's
Balloon Trip Star Under the
Moat~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

This Castle Secret Star is
located beneath the moat, so you
need to have drained that first
off. Second, in order to access
this area you must be Wario. So
go switch to him in the
Character Rooms, then head
outside as Wario and into the
moat. Find a Black Brick Block
and break it, and go down the
revealed hole.

You will be dropped onto a huge
slide. Well, the top of it at
least. This is the old Vanishing
Cap level form the orginal Super
Mario 64. Heh, what memories.
The only thing you need to
encounter on this level is the
giant slide. Simply slide down
to the bottom of it. You can
gain massive speed, which is
nice and all, but by doing so
you may fly right off the ledge
at the bottom and be forced to
do it all over again. So, to
spare you some trouble, keep
your speed reasonable as you
make your way to the bottom
ledge of the world.

You will find the Mario Cap
right at the end of the slide.
You need to be Mario for this
Star so you better grab it. Now,
head to the Red ? Block nearby
and grab the Power Flower
inside. Start floating into the
abyss, and turn the camera
around to see just where your
going. Your trying to float over
to a platform not too far away,
in the middle of nothing.

Land on the platform and
activate the Star Switch. You
have about 40 seconds to climb 2
vertical shafts to reach a high
platform with the Star Sphere.
You now have 2 choices. You can
either do a much faster Wall
Jump successfully up the first
shaft, or take the little bit
slower method of using the
nearby Power Flower to float up
the first shaft. Your call. Head
up to the next platform up the
1st shaft.

Now you can repeat what you did
before for the next shaft, which
is a little bit longer than the
first. You can easily Wall Jump
up to the top of it for a much
faster ride, or use another
nearby ? Red Block and use the
Power Flower to float the rest
of the way. Remember, you only
have about 40 seconds so you
need to make your decision fast.
Whichever you choose, just climb
to the top of the shaft.

Once you reach the top of the
shaft, simply head over to the
Star Sphere and collect your
Star. Simple as that. If time
ran out, jump off the ledge and
hope to land on the platform
with the Star Switch, or die and
go back down the slide and over
to the platform with the Star
Switch. Either way, this isn't
very hard.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #17:Switch
Star; Stairway Madness in the
Dark World~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

Notice:The following few
paragraphs just explain how to
get to the Switch Star, located
right behind the Pipe to Bowser.
If you know how to get there,
skip the following paragraphs.
Otherwise, read on.

Enter the Big Star Door in the
Lobby to enter the Dark World.
Start off by running across the
wide platform you start off on.
You will go a few platforms
down, then go across a very thin
wooden bridge. After that, and
up the next hill you will come
to a Fire Breathing Statue. Wait
until after it shoots its
flames, then run past it.

After the fire shooter, you will
see two large diamond shaped
floating platforms moving in a
counterclockwise direction. Jump
on one of them, and ride it over
to the other side of the
platform then jump off. On solid
ground again, start running up
the hill. You will come to a
sudden U-Turn, though. In that
U-Turn happens to be another
Fire Breathing Statue. How fun.
Wait for it to stop shooting,
then make the U-Turn. Then,
after the U-Turn, run up the
following hill. It will come to
an end, and a few feet infront
of you is a bunch of platforms
moving in a circular motion.
Jump on one of them and ride it
higher to the top. When you
reach a large, circular
platform, jump off the ride.

Now that you are on the circular
platform, kill the Goombas if
you feel like it (or are running
out of health). You will see a
wooden bridge to the north. Head
on it, and then the platform
will quickly take a sudden left
turn (a guardrail here protects
the accident of still running
forward). Now, on this thin
green pathway, there are no
guardrails. There is no need to
run like it's a marathon. Take
your time. Pass the crystals in
the ground as they do nothing.
You will see a few Amps circling
some crystals. Avoid getting
shocked by them. Continue along
the pathway until you reach the
end of it. Then, you will see a
platform floating in midair,
with an orange platform going
out and receding into it over
and over again. While the
platform is out, jump onto it
and quickly jump onto the middle
platform. Now, on the other side
of it is the same orange
platform moving in and out. Jump
onto it then quickly get off
when the next platform is
visible.

Now, infront of you is another
set of two moving platforms
moving in a counterclockwise
direction. Jump on one when it
passes you, then face to the
right. You will see another pair
of moving platforms, perfectly
insync with the platform you are
on. When one of them passes you,
that is your time to jump onto
it. Now, just sit tight until it
passes the solid platform. When
the moving platform passes it,
jump onto it. Now you are back
on solid land. This next part of
the Dark World is a bit tricky,
so kill the nearby Goomba that
may hinder you.

Turn to your letf to view the
large tilting platforms. You
have probably used these
platforms before in variou
worlds, and they act the same,
but these are just a bit bigger.
Jump onto the first tilting
platform and keep running. Your
weight will shift the platform
up, so you will start running
slow for a second as it begins
evening out again. As the next
platform is in view, get near it
and jump. It is quite an easy
jump if the first tilting
platform is tilted up while you
jump. At the end of this
platform is the final platform.
Jump onto it, then fall down a
short way to another platform
with some Goombas on it. Kill
them so they won't bother you.
Climb up the few platforms to
the right and you will find a !
Red Switch. Activate it to make
the large ramp infront of you
form into stairs. Climb up the
stairs before time runs out.

Head behind the Warp Pipe and
hit the Star Switch. The Power
Star will appear on a platform a
little ways away. Hurry and go
back the direction you came
from. The stairs are gone, so
jump and do a Ground Pound once
you reach the end of the slide.
From here, quickly make a
Flutter Kick (or Long Jump if
somebody else) to the next
platform. Keep repeating this
until you make it to the last
platform, which holds the Star
Sphere. Break it open and claim
yet another Power Star.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #18:A Kind
Power Star Gift From Toad~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

Once you have beaten Bowser in
the Dark World, you will recieve
the Key to the basement of
Peach's Castle. Start off down
there by taking the path to the
right, and not through the Big
Star Door. Head through the door
at the end of the hallway to be
in another section of the
basement. Take the right path
here and follow it along to the
picture of a big Podoboo (The
Lethal Lava Land picture) and
take a right, through the door
with a Star with no number on
it. In here is the entrance to
Hazy Maze Cave. Nearby the
silver pool of transportation
liquid, a Toad rests here. Talk
to him and he will kindly hand
over a Power Star he found.

NOTE:I've gotten word that Toad
doesn't immediately hand over
the Star once you have access to
him. People say this is in
effect with the Boo Courtyard 8
Red Coins. Like that glitch,
this one is also complete bull.
If Toad doens't give you the
Star, then once again you have
already collected it. If you
talk to him once, then talk to
him another time and he gives
you the Star, then I'm not so
sure. There may just be
something else that triggers
when he can give you the Star,
but as far as I know all you
need to get this Star is access
to the Toad himself.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #19:8 Red
Coins Within the Fire Sea~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

I doesn't really matter which
character you are for this Star,
but Mario will have the most
advantages so you should choose
him. Whenever you are ready,
head through the Big Star Door
in the basement and head through
to the Bowser in the Fire Sea
level.

The first part of the level is
pretty easy. Just hop onto the
blue platform and ride it over
to the other side of the lava.
You will need to jump onto some
nearby platforms when the
platform submerges so make sure
you do so. Once you reach the
side with the Bullies, look for
an orange, wire-grating path
north of the platform. Follow it
to the end, and you will see the
first Red Coin. Jump to grab it.
Don't fall through the hole in
the grating while attempting
this.

Once you have gotten that Red
Coin, head back to the platform
with the Bullies on it. Continue
to the right, quickly running
across the blue platforms when
lava isn't covering them. Once
on the other platform, continue
to run forwards, past the
Goombas and Heart, and onto the
pole. Climb to the top and jump
off onto the tilting platform.
You can easily (But carefully)
grab the second Red Coin here.

Head to the very end of the
tilting platform, and climb the
pole there to the very top. You
will be in a large yellow cage.
In the corner, there lies the
third Red Coin.

Also inside this large cage
happens to be a yellow elevator
on the opposite side you found
the 3rd Red Coin. Here is where
pretty much most of the players
who attempt this Star miss this
Red Coin. Get on the elevator,
then quickly run off. The
revealed hole will reveal the
fourth Red Coin. Fall down and
grab it. You will be back on the
platform with the Goomba's.
Quickly run back to the nearby
pole, get on the tilting
platform, get into the cage, and
ride the elevator to the top.

Long Jump across the short gap
as the fire emitter isn't
spitting fire, unless you want a
very fast and painful way to
die. Now, there should be a
yellow platform infront of you.
There is a very thin flat
surface at the top of it, and
you need to land on it. You can
try normal jumping, but you
might easily slip off. I suggest
crawling to the top. Once there,
follow the pathway upwards to a
high platform with a Bully on
it. Grab the fifth Red Coin that
lies there.

Once you have that Coin, jump
off from the top of the platform
and you should (very hopefully)
land on some more lower
platforms, with a Heart and some
Bullies. Heal up with the Heart,
and continue up the yellow-
grated path. These platforms are
moving up and down for whatever
reason. Stay on each platform-
one of them, once it reaches the
top of the cycle, has a Red
Coin. Grab that Coin very
easily.

With just 2 Coins to go, head to
the very top of the moving
platforms. You will have to
cross a huge sea of fire. Only 5
blue platforms are here, but
they are rising and sinking into
the lava. There are 2 fire
emitters and two Amps. You need
to be careful. Run quickly past
everything to the last fire
emitter. The seventh Red Coin is
infront of it. Get it when the
thing isn't spitting out fire.

You're almost done here, just 1
Coin left. Run past the large
fire sea, and you will come to
several platforms that move up
and down. Get on the first one
and jump off at the top. Go
below the second one, and get
onto the third one. Be patient
for the last Coin. Once the pole
is at the top, you can easily
jump off to it.

Now that you have all 8 Red
Coins, you can grab the Power
Star which is on top of a tall
platform. In order to get here,
you need to be Mario. Head back
to the second pole and climb to
the top and onto the wire
grating there. Now, perform Wall
Jumps between the walls there to
reach an upper platform. Now, it
is the matter of a don't miss
this jump moment to the platform
which holds the Power Star.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #20:Long
Jump and Fall Switch Star in the
Fire Sea~
================================
Difficulty:***/*****

Well, the last time you need to
enter Bowser in the Fire Sea
this is, and it's a bit of a
difficult Star. Anyways, I like
Luigi for this Star so its best
to choose him. Once you reach
Bowser in the Fire Sea, start
off by getting on the wire
platform and riding it to the
other side, jumping off whenever
neccessary. Once at the end, run
to the right, past some groups
of enemies and over a sea of
lava, and past some more enemies
and up a pole at the very end.
Head up the pole, and go over
the tilting platform. Go up the
next pole.

In this yellow cage, find the
elevator on the left side. Ride
it to the second floor of the
level. Long Jump across the
nearby gap, and go up the yellow
platform and across the mesh
wiring. Then you will come to a
huge platform that is constantly
going up and down, changing the
slant of the hills making it
hard to run sometimes. Make it
to the top, then head over the
really long sea of lava to the
last platform with a spinning
heart on it. Now the fun begins.

Jump right onto the pole that is
right infront of you, then climb
to the top of it and jump off to
the nearby ledge. Keep going
until you meet up with some more
metal wiring on the ground.
There is a pole here going in
and out of the hole in the
ground here. Ignore the pole,
and run for the wall. Perform
several Wall Kicks off of it
until you reach the very top
platform. Jump off onto the next
higher platform, one that has a
! Yellow Block and the Switch
Star.

Step on the Switch Star to place
the Star inside the Star Sphere.
Yowza! That Star is a long ways
away, not the mention a long
drop's fall away. Get a running
start and perform a Long Jump
towards the Star. It pretty much
is your only choice as there is
barely 15 seconds to make it
over there. Well, the only
problem is that by Long Jumping
towards the Star, you won't make
it. I mean you can't make it
with just a Long Jump. You will
land in that huge sea of lava
with the 5 blue platforms. If
your unlucky, the lava will be
high and you will burn to death.
If your lucky, you will lose
health just from the landing and
can easily run right over to the
Star Sphere. If you landed in
the lava because your really
unlucky, your gonna have to make
your way back to the Star Switch
and try again. You may need to
do this Star several times
before you obtain it.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #21:A
Suspicious Mirrored Door's
Secret~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

This is a Power Star that is
massively overlooked. You need
to be Luigi to get this Star
which is one of the easiest in
the game. Head to the Mirror
Room, the one that has the
painting for Snowman's Land.
Once you are in the room as
Luigi, all of the stands have a
Power Flower on them. Grab a
Power Flower to become
invisible.

Wheee! Now what? You're
invisible and there isn't a
single thing to do! Well, you
can easily walk right through
the mirror. That's something
Luigi can do right now. Head
right through the mirror. Now,
most people only see the Wario
painting to the right, and
simply jump right in. However,
see that door in the distance?
Most people overlook it, but you
can actually go in it! The only
thing in it is blankness and a
Power Star. Go ahead and easily
collect your prize.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #22:8 Red
Coins Hidden in Chief Chilly's
Area~
================================
Difficulty:***/*****

In order to do this challenge,
you are going to need to be
Luigi, then later switch to the
other characters. In order to
reach Chief Chilly's area, you
need to head to the Mirror Room
(Also the entrance to Snowman's
Land) as Luigi. Once there,you
should notice a Luigi painting
and a Wario Painting on the
other side of the mirror. As
Luigi, there will be Power
Flowers in this room. Grab one
of them and quickly run over to
the other side of the mirror.
Quite intresting, isn't it?
Oddly enough on the other side,
you can jump into the Wario
Painting. Do so.

You will now appear in Chief
Chilly's Area. You are now
standing on a lone island with
nothing but a small slide
infront of you. You have nothing
much to do besides head onto the
slide. At the end, you will fall
right off into the empty void,
but a wind gust will push you
all the way to a nearby platform
with several Bullies on it.

Avoid the Bullies as they can
easily ram you right off the
edge of the world. Head to the
left and pass over 4 square
titling platforms. Once you
reach the other side, another
Bully awaits you. Ignore him and
head right. Wait before the gap
for a small wire platform to
come. Ride it over to the next
platform, collecting the Red
Coin along the way.

Once you have collected the
first Red Coin, jump off onto
the platform once you reach the
other side. Once you are there,
head to the right. Get a running
start before the ending ledge
then jump right off of it. Make
sure you are in the middle of
the path. A wind will blow you
upwards, and make you pass
through a group of Coins. The
second Red Coin is in the middle
of this pile of Coins. If you
drop down back onto ground and
missed the Coin, head back over
the ledge to get blown up and
try again. Once you have it,
land near the giant pool of
water.

The wind is likely to blow you
right into the giant really cold
pond. If this happens to be the
case, quickly swim your ass out
of there before you take too
much damage. The third Red Coin
happens to be above the surface
in the middle of the pond.
Quickly swim over there, then
right back out. Walk around the
pool of water to the other side
and jump over a short fence
leading to a group of Bullies.

Run right down the middle of the
Bullies' path. Near the end of
the path is the fourth Red Coin.
Get it without getting knocked
out of the level. Once you have
reached the end of the path,
simple jump over the next fence
for some real platforming
action.

Now you will be standing infront
of a huge pit with many blocks
of solid ice moving in all sorts
of directions. The platforms
syncronize with eachother well,
so timing is easy to get down
and crossing to the other side
isn't a problem at all. But, for
this challenge you need to
collect the 2 Red Coins that are
in this pit of blocks. They are
lined up in the middle of the
path, so you can't possible miss
their appearence. Make sure you
have Red Coins five and six
before heading to the next
section. Don't die now. I
seriously mean don't die now!

Now that you are finally past
some annoying platforming and
are on the other side of the
field, continue moving forwards.
The seventh Red Coin is behind
some metal bars but you can't
access it yet. Soon you will
reach a part of the land that
has some of it moving in and out
of the walls. Continue to the
top of this area.

Now on the higher area of the
land, more parts of it are
moving back and forth into and
out of the wall. Its annoying,
very annoying to do, really.
Simply get on the bottom
platform, then wait for the next
platform to come out of the
wall. When it does, wait there
for the last piece to come out
so you can reach the top of the
platform.

Here you will finally be at a ?
Red Block. Grab the Power Flower
that is inside to become
invisible. Now, head back the
way you just came. Make sure you
don't build up too much speed
because you might just run right
off of the level. That would be
bad. Keep running back to that
metal barred fence I was talking
about earlier. Since you're
invisible you can go right
through it and get the seventh
Red Coin.

Now the final Red Coin is on a
platform really really far away.
In order to reach it you need to
be Balloon Mario. The Mario Cap
is nearby the barred fence, so
quickly grab it. Once you have
the Mario Cap, simply make your
way back up those annoying
platforms and back to the Red ?
Block. Now look in the distance
and high in the sky. See that
platform? It's your destination.
Get the Power Flower and start
mashing B as you rush over to
it. You should have plenty of
Balloon time to reach the
platform, which contains the
final Red Coin.

Now that you have the final Red
Coin, the Power Star will appear
somewhere near that barred gate.
To get all the way back over
there, grab the Power Flower
from the block on the huge
platform and simply float all
the way over there. Actually,
its more like slowly fall over
there. Grab the Power Star once
your back there.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #23:Blown
Away Secret Star in Chief
Chilly's Area~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

Heh. This is a very easy Star to
obtain. Its the last one we need
in Chief Chilly's area. You
should be Wario for this so you
will need his Cap in the level
so make sure he's unlocked. This
is possible with any character,
but not as easy. Anyways, you
need to be Luigi to enter Chief
Chilly's Area. Head up to the
Snowman's Land room as him. The
path here is always the same.
Once there, you should notice a
Luigi painting and a Wario
Painting on the other side of
the mirror. As Luigi, there will
be Power Flowers in this room.
Grab one of them and quickly run
over to the other side of the
mirror. Quite intresting, isn't
it? Oddly enough on the other
side, you can jump into the
Wario Painting. Do so.

You will now appear in Chief
Chilly's Area. You are now
standing on a lone island with
nothing but a small slide
infront of you. You have nothing
much to do besides head onto the
slide. At the end, you will fall
right off into the empty void,
but a wind gust will push you
all the way to a nearby platform
with several Bullies on it.

Avoid the Bullies as they can
easily ram you right off the
edge of the world. Head to the
left and pass over 4 square
titling platforms. Once you are
past those, you should be near a
Bully and Wario's Cap. Quickly
grab the Cap to become Wario.

Now that you are Wario, the rest
of this Star is pretty simple.
From where you got the Wario
Cap, head to the right to a
short gap and a moving wire
platform. Wait until the
platform comes towards you, then
jump on it and ride it over to
the other side. Once there, head
to the left and you will see a ?
Red Block and a short pathway
leading to a dead end with a
Black Block. The Star is inside
that block.

In order to get the Star, you
need to go past that pathway,
with a ton of winds. You will
easily get blown off, but since
you're Wario, that Power Flower
nearby will make you metal, and
make you weigh a ton more. Grab
the Power Flower and walk over
there. Stupid winds! Your utter
attack fails against Wario's
mighty weight! Har! Once you
reach the other side simply
break the block and claim the
Power Star.

However, if you want a challenge
getting this Star then read on.
Try to get over to the black
brick with a different character
(Break the block as Wario and
leave the Star, and come back to
where you orginally got the
Power Flower). Now get across
the pathway with Luigi or Mario.
Despite what you may think, it
is possible. If you want to know
how to do so, continue to read
the next sentences.

Simply hold on the D-Pad the
opposite direction the wind is
pushing you against. You will
still get blown to the edge of
the pathway, and that is it. You
won't fall off. Cool, huh? Now
head to the other side. By the
time you reach there you
probably will have fallen off. I
don't know what causes that, but
if you keep trying you might
make it. Its not too hard, so
keep trying this challenge!

================================
~Castle Secret Star #24:Another
Kind Gift From a Nearby Toad~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

Pfft. The second out of three
really incredibly easy Power
Stars to get it isn't funny. It
matters not what character you
are, as if it matters. This is
the second Power Star tha Toad
gives to you. The location of
this Toad, however, is on the
second floor of the Castle. Head
up the spiral staircase from the
lobby to reach the second floor.
Okay, now that you are here,
simply talk to all of the Toad's
on this floor. There should be
like, only two I believe. One of
them will kindly hand over a
Power Star. Take the really easy
to jump to Power Star. Yay.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #25:Another
Gift? Where Does Toad Get These
Stars...~
================================
Difficulty:*/*****

...and this here is the last
Power Star you are going to get
from Toad. What a shame, these
were easy Stars too. Oh well.
You need to wait until you have
at least 50 Stars. You can't
access the final Toad Star until
then. Once you do have at least
50 Power Stars, from the main
lobby head up the stairs and
through the door. Head up the
spiral staircase then head right
and go up another staircase.
There is a Big Star Door at the
top. You can't go through until
you have at least 50 Power
Stars. Once you do, go right
through the door and you will be
on the third floor of the
Castle. The Toad is to the right
of the giant clock. Talk to the
Toad to make him give you this
absurdly easy Power Star. Where
does he find them...?

================================
~Castle Secret Star #26:Red
Coins Over the Rainbow~
================================
Difficulty:*****/*****

This is, by far, considered the
hardest Castle Secret Star, as
well as one of the hardest Stars
to obtain in the entire game.
Your objective is simple. Just
collect all of the red coins. Of
course, there is a slight
problem. All of the red coins
are located on clouds in a
rather large level. There is no
actual land at all. You will
need to use the Wing Cap and
expert use of cannons to collect
the coins. You won't lose a life
if you fall through into the
abyss (something you will likely
do many, many times), but you
will appear in the pool near
where you begin the game just
outside the castle. Basically,
if you fail you need to climb
all the way back to the entrance
of the secret level. The
entrance is located on the third
floor of the Castle. Head to the
third floor via all of the
staircases and what not. Once
there, head inside the hole in
the wall to the left of Tick
Tock Clock. Jump inside the
opening that is there. It looks
like a copy of Rainbow Ride, but
it isn't.

And now total hell has begun.
Welcome to Mario Wings Over the
Rainbow. Or something like that.
There are a ton of clouds
scattered around the area, some
with Red Coins on them. You,
obviously, need to collect all
8. You need to use Wing Mario to
fly over to level and collect
the Coins. Grab the nearby Mario
Cap on the cloud you start off
on if you aren't already Mario,
and then grab the first Red Coin
nearby. Grab the Wing Cap from
the ? Red Block, then turn
around and face the first
curving rainbow.

Now you can finally fly. Flying
it quite fun. But before you
take off into the blue yonder,
make sure you don't go too fast.
Almost every cloud has a ? Red
Block on it. If your worried
about your cap running out, stop
for a moment and collect a new
one. Never take any unnecessary
risks! Start flying with a
Triple Jump and fly towards the
rainbow you were staring out
(The one close to the ? Red
Block). Keep going until you
reach a cloud. Land on the
cloud, and grab the second Red
Coin that is there. Grab another
Wing Cap and then face a huge
platform (It's not a cloud, it's
a pink platform) way below you.
It's pretty obvious on the map,
or if you just plain look for
it. There are 2 of them,
however. You only need the one
with Wario's Cap on it. Take a
long dive down to the platform,
and for goodness sake don't
miss!

Once you land on the platform
safely, grab the third Red Coin
nearby. Nearby as well is a Bob-
Omb Buddy. Talk to him and the
Cannon's will be open. You will
be needing them. Jump inside the
nearby Cannon on the platform.
Now you are inside the Cannon.
Take your time here-your Wing
Cap won't run out inside the
Cannon. Look to the far right
and high into the sky towards
another solid platform. The only
other one in the level. That is
where you need to go. However,
if you aim too low you won't
make it to the platform. Aiming
too high will result you in
getting high, but gaining little
distance and in the time it
takes to get to the platform you
will have lost too much altitude
to make it. Aim a little bit
below really high and then fire
away!

Now you will be shot really high
into the air. Aren't you lucky.
Once you gain control of Mario
again, keep heading straight.
Eventually you should land right
on the giant platform you were
aiming at. Get another Wing Cap
and hop inside the Cannon.

Make sure you don't screw up
this Cannon shot because it can
easily result in failure of this
Star. Look upwards and to the
left, looking for a giant cloud
with several green poles
sticking out of the bottom of
the cloud. Once you have located
the giant cloud, aim as high as
the cannon can go and then fire
away.

You don't want to land on the
poles of the cloud just yet-aim
for the TOP of that giant cloud.
Just continue flying until you
get there, its not far away.
Making your job just a little
easier, there are two red coins
on this cloud. Quite nice. Claim
Red Coins four and five. Just 2
remain. Grab another Wing Cap
from this cloud.

This next part is a tad
difficult, to say the least.
Your gonna have to be quick and
accurate as to not die. Anyways,
there's nothing left on the
cloud so Triple Jump to start
flying again. Start flying
straight ahead to lose a little
height, then make a quick
u-turn. Head straight back to
those giant green poles you saw
earlier from the Cannon. Fly to
the giant poles then grab onto
one of them. Carefully jump to
the poles near the middle, and
climb near the top of them.
There is the sixth Red Coin,
hanging between the 2 poles.
Make sure the jump is accurate
then jump over and collect the
Coin. Fall down onto the cloud
below you.

This cloud contains the seventh
Red Coin. Just one left that
remains. Grab another Wing Cap
to ensure you can make it to the
final Red Coin, then look around
for the giant rainbow you saw
earlier. There are several, you
need to look for one that comes
out of the sky and passes
through a cloud and lands on
another lower cloud. And
wouldn't you know it, you need
to start flying to that same
cloud! Do so. Now.

The eigth and final Red Coin
rests on this cloud. Don't mess
up now! Grab the Red Coin and
the Star will appear on the
cloud you started on. How
ironic. Getting back to that
cloud is no easy matter. Try not
to get nervous and fall right
out of the level because that is
quite bad. Fly to the largest
lower platform of the level, and
hop inside the Cannon that is
there. Grab another Wing Cap
beforehand, though. Then look on
the map and aim pretty high and
right at the cloud with the
Star. Then fire away. Hopefully,
if you aimed correctly, you
should be heading right for the
Star. Grab it! Yay for you. If
you missed, head back to the
cannon and try again.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #27:Secret
Brick Somewhere Over the
Rainbow~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

Last time (thankfully) you need
to enter this hell driven level.
If you can't tell by the name of
this Star, there is a black
brick in the Red Coins Over the
Rainbow level. You may have seen
it while you were busy
collecting the red coins. You
may have also noticed a Wario
Cap in the level next to the
cannon, whose island is next to
the cloud with this block. Quite
nice.

Most people hate this level.
Seriously. Keep in mind that if
you fall in this level at any
time, you will appear in a pool
of water outside of the castle.
Your climb back to this stage
will get annoying after a while
if you continuously fail.
Clearly it is best if you do
this first time through. It
isn't too hard. You can enter
this level on the third floor.
It's in the small nook to the
left of the Tick Tock Clock
entrance.

Once you enter the level, grab
the nearby Mario Cap if you
aren't already the man in red.
Whee, I love clouds. I hate this
world. Stupid evil clouds. Grab
the Wing Cap inside the nearby ?
Red Block and Triple Jump to
start flying.

And now the fun of the Star
begins. Look around on your map
for a pretty large platform far
below. It's is the one with a
Wario Cap on it. That is the
very platform you need to reach.
Start taking a divebomb right to
the platform, but try to even
out so you don't go speeding
into the platform then fly off
because that is a very stupid
way to die. On the platform,
grab the nearby Wario Cap and
talk to the Bob-omb Buddy.

Talking to the Bob-omb Buddy
will activate the Cannon. If you
already have activated the
Cannon (Probably from the
previous Star) then that's okay
too. Hop inside the Cannon.

Now comes the final part of the
Star-reaching the final cloud.
Look a little above your intial
aiming point for a cloud with a
tree on it. This cloud has a
Black Brick Block on it. You
need to aim onto the tree and
have Wario land on it, thusly
you can simply slide down right
onto the cloud and obtain your
Star inside. Aim a little bit
above the tree. Whenever your
confident enough, go ahead and
fire the Cannon!

If everything was correctly
placed, you will fly across the
level (Longer distance than it
seemed...) and should land right
on the tree. If so, slide down
right onto the cloud. There is
the already said Black Brick
there. Break it to expose the
Star. Grab it to clear the
level.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #28:8 Red
Coins Floating High in Bowser in
the Sky~
================================
Difficulty:***/*****

You're almost done with all of
the Castle Secret Stars. Bowser
in the Sky, as one would expect,
has another whopping 8 Red Coins
floating about. Let's just say
that several of the Coins are
extremely hard to see, but too
damned easy to get. It's
annoying, really. Especially the
last Coin which, if you never
played the original game, will
make you spend hours looking
for. Are you ready for the final
Coins?

Start off as usual by jumping
across the first few platforms.
Nothing major so far. Once you
reach a large, red metal box,
stop. Push the box back a little
bit until a shadow appears on
the box. Get on top of the box,
and you should easily be able to
grab the Red Coin that is in the
air. Jump right back off of the
box.

Continue along with the level.
Head carefully and quickly
across the large titling
platform, then run straight up
the next platform. The path will
turn some, and then you will
have to go across a spinning
platform. Simple stuff. Right
after that you will see the 2nd
Red Coin near a Pirhana Plant.
After collecting the Red Coin,
run right past the Pirhana Plant
and keep following the path.
Eventually you will come to a
tilting platform. Don't get on
it just yet, instead fall down
through the gap between the
platform and yourself to land on
a much lower platform. The third
Red Coin is nearby, and trust me
when I say almost everyone
misses this very easy (Hardly
anyone acknowledges the fact
this platform exists). Head
about halfway down the platform,
and go right. You should easily
see a ledge right off of the
platform. Grab the 3rd Red Coin
there. Turn the camera around
until you see this platform.
Guessing where it is located
will quickly lead to your death.

It's a bit of a distance to the
next Red Coin. Go back the way
you just came and head up some
platforms to reach the tilting
platform again. This time get on
it, and jump over to a platform
with 4 spinning platforms. Ride
one to the top and jump up to a
higher ledge for a shortcut
(You're not passing any Red
Coins so don't worry). Activate
the Red ! Switch to form a
nearby staircase, then run up.
Then, next run right up a really
tall ledge. Be careful of
several fire emitters here,
because falling off is really
bad. Once you reach the top,
carefully jump to reach the
fourth Red Coin just dangling in
mid-air.

The fifth Red Coin is the
hardest Coin to get, because
missing the Coin during its
chance will spell death.
Anyways, continue down the next
platform, dodging more fire
emitters. The path will turn,
and you will eventually reach a
moving platform with a large
arrow on it. It will pass under
several platforms, and you will
eventually see a much higher,
tilted platform in the air. This
is where the fifth Red Coin is,
but if you land on the platform
you will fall right off. So, you
need to either build up a Triple
Jump and sail right through the
Red Coin and still land on the
platform, or do a Backwards
Somersault and still land on the
platform. Both are very risky,
but they are your only options.

The last three Red Coins should
be a breeze as long as you don't
(stupidly) fall off any
platforms. Once you reach the
end of the moving platform, jump
to the next platform with 2 Bob-
ombs on it. Run right past them
and jump onto the next spinning
platform. There is fire emitter
here, you quickly run past it
and onto the next spinning
platform. An Amp is circling
around the platform. Turn the
camera around 180 degrees if you
can't see the Red Coin right
now. There it is, tucked behind
the small tower.

Once you have collected the
sixth Coin, jump onto the pole
near the end of the spinning
platform. Climb to the top, and
then jump right off. You will be
near several Goombas who will
probably attack you on sight.
Kill them both so they are out
of your way. Now, wait until the
yellow platform infront of you
extends to the far away pole.
When it does, run and jump onto
the pole and grab the Red Coin
there.

And now the final Red Coins is
left. Do a Handstand Jump on the
pole to easily reach the next
platform. Circle around it and
head to the next 2 sets of
rotating platforms. Be very
careful here as you really don't
want to fall now. Once you reach
the very top of Bowser in the
Sky, head over to the final Warp
Pipe. DON'T GO IN IT. Turn
around, and head to the ledge.
Look down. Right below the
stairs you will see a very thin
ledge. And what is that spinning
there? It's none other than the
final Red Coin. Jump to the
ledge (its an easy jump) and
claim the final Red Coin under
the stairs. The Power Star will
appear right behind Bowser's
Pipe, so jump back over the
short gap and claim it already!

================================
~Castle Secret Star #29:Mario's
Switch Star in Bowser in the
Sky~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

Last time you will ever have to
go into Bowser in the Sky ever
again. Doesn't that just make
you feel very happy? Anyways,
head to the top floor of the
Castle as Mario, and you should
know how to enter this world.
The Switch Star isn't too far
into the level. No biggie. Start
off by heading across the first
few platforms, and head right
over the large tilting platform.
Then run straight up the cliff
and continue along the path as
it turns 180 degrees around.
Jump over the gaps over the
spinning platform. Ignore the
Pirhana Plant, and head to the
tilting platform. Don't get on
it but instead fall through the
gap between you and the
platform. You will be on a very
long platform now. Head all the
way to the other end where you
will see the Star Switch.

Get ready for a long dash! Step
on the Star Switch to make the
Star appear in the Star Sphere
(Star this, Star that) which is
quite a distance away. You have
about 25 seconds to reach that
dome. Hurry! Quickly run back
the direction you just came
from. Eventually you will reach
the end. Once there, quickly
jump up the small platforms to
the upper level again. Run in
the opposite direction the
purple tilting platform is in,
and pass the Pirhana Plant.
Quickly Long Jump across the
spinning platform to reach the
other side with moments to
spare. There it is, the final
Star Sphere. Grab the Star that
lies inside.

================================
~Castle Secret Star #30:Mystery
Door in the Character Room~
================================
Difficulty:**/*****

The final Castle Secret Star
will either be the easiest or
most annoying Star to obtain,
depending on how your luck is.
Remember how in the Character
Room there are four doors, and
one of them is white with no
letter above it? Behind that
door is the final Castle Secret
Star. You need to obtain the
key, however. You can't just
waltz in and collect it.

To begin the process of
collecting the Key, talk to the
Toad in the Princess's Play
Room. He mentions how the keys
to the minigames have been
stolen. This triggers the
locations for rabbits to appear
in the castle. Their locations
vary depending on your
character. When you catch a
rabbit, it will hand over a key
which unlocks a specific
minigame. To get the Key to the
White Door, you must catch eight
white and shiny rabbits. Any
rabbit you have already captured
has a chance of appearing white
and sparkly when you enter the
room it is located in. It isn't
any harder to catch, however.
When you capture it, the rabbit
will say how many of its
brothers are faster than him.
That's a counter showing how
many rabbits you have left to
catch. Once you have caught the
eight one, he will hand over the
Key that unlocks the White Door.
The easiest way to get the shiny
rabbits is with Yoshi. Outside
of the castle there are six
rabbits. There's good odds at
least one will be shiny. Capture
them, then enter the doors and
walk right back outside and try
again. Eventually, with some
patience, you will have
collected all eight and can
recieve your final Castle Secret
Star.

--------------------------------
      ~V U.Bowser Battles~
--------------------------------
You have to fight Bowser on
three different occasions in the
game. I'll describe some good
stratigies on how to beat him
easily, his attacks, and how to
avoid everything he throws at
you.

==========================
~Bowser in the Dark World~
==========================
The first Bowser battle is
pretty simple and basic. All you
need to do is fling Bowser into
one of the bombs that line
around the giant platform you
are standing on. To do this, you
need to run around Bowser and
grab his tail. Then you need to
spin the D-Pad (Or touch screen)
until Bowser reaches your
desired flinging speed then
release him to send him packing.
If he hits a bomb then you win.
Yay! If he gets flung off the
platform, he will just jump
right back onto it.

Bowser attacks in a pretty old-
school way. If you're infront of
him, odds are he will just
breathe fire on you in hope you
get burnt. Occasionally he will
spit out three flames that
wonder the field for a few
seconds before disappearing.
They sometimes leave Coins that
you can collect if your running
low on health. When Bowser jumps
back onto the platform after
being flung into oblivion, he
crashes onto the floor which
will stun Mario if he is
standing on it.

Once you have flung Bowser into
just one bomb, he will hand over
the Key to the basement. Don't
be stupid though, you can jump
right into the bombs, destroying
them for a little damage. But if
you destroy them all, well, you
can't exactly win anymore.

========================
~Bowser in the Fire Sea~
========================
The second version of Bowser is
much like the first. However, as
soon as you start off, Bowser
will show you a new move. He
will jump up high and land on
the ground, completely tilting
the platform towards him. You
will start to fall that way too,
so jump quickly to avoid falling
into the lava until the platform
settles itself. Bowser has more
new tricks to try and stop you
from throwing him into one of
six bombs.

Bowser has the same set of
attacks from the previous
battle. That being he will shoot
a jet of fire if your near him
or he will shoot several flames
around the field. But his most
annoying new attack would be him
teleporting. Whenever your near
him for a few seconds Bowser is
extremely likely to try and
teleport around the field. This
makes it much harder for you to
grab him and throw him into a
bomb. You need to be careful so
you don't run into him by
accident when he's reappearing.
You can tell where he is by his
black shadow on the ground.

Overall, its not too hard of a
battle. There are six bombs
overall. Just pick one and keep
throwing Bowser at it until you
make him hit one. Once he has,
he will hand over the Key that
leads to the second floor of the
Castle. Alternatively, you can
keep throwing him a little
distance until he is right next
to the bomb, so much so that
your next shot can't possibly
miss. Use this method if your
accuracy is pretty bad.

===================
~Bowser in the Sky~
===================
This is the final Bowser battle
and it indeed is quite a
toughie. Beefing up the
difficulty several notches,
infact. You need to throw Bowser
into three of the five
surrounding bombs around the
platform. As if that wasn't bad
enough, after you hit him a
second time, he makes most of
the platform crumble so there's
nothing but a star shaped
platform. He also has a new,
really powerful attack. This
battle is going to be hard, but
it's somehow actually possible.

Bowser will use the same attacks
as he did in the first battle.
He isn't able to teleport
anymore, so that's a relief.
Occasionally Bowser will jump up
and land on the ground hard,
creating 2 shockwaves that
travel across the entire
platform. They are easy to
avoid-simply jump over them. His
other attack is quite nasty.
Bowser will breathe a lot of
fire into the sky and it will
rain onto the ground. Lots and
lots of flames rain onto the
ground. About 30 or so. Several
green fireballs will roam around
the battlefield as well. Its
best to sit in one place and
jump over any fireballs until
the huge mess has subsided. His
other old attacks are basic and
shouldn't even hurt you.
Remember to collect the leftover
coins if you are in dire need of
more health.

Hitting Bowser into the first
two bombs is the easy part, but
the final one is madness. You
need to pick Bowser up and
circle him around at a really
high speed. Then you need to
release him and hope that he
hits one of the last bombs. Odds
are he's gonna miss by a
longshot. But if your lucky
enough to make him hit one last
bomb, then that is it and the
game is over! A giant Power Star
will appear. Grab it to trigger
the game's ending (It does not
add to your Star Count so don't
concern yourself).

--------------------------------
     ~VI.Quick Walkthrough~
--------------------------------
Find the huge, detailed guide
for some Stars just a little too
confusing? Your in the right
place then. This Quick
Walkthrough was designed to
solve that annoying problem.
This guide covers all 150 Stars
as well, but in a smaller
format. Think of it as a summary
to all the actual long- winded
descriptions for the Stars. It
was an idea I got while browsing
many topics, most often with
people demanding summaries to
long stories. These are just
that; summaries of a long
description. Instead of a
paragraph for each Red Coin
location, its just a few words
for example. Nice, short,
simple, and easy to use.
Obviously, if this isn't
descriptive enough, then look to
the main walkthrough for more
assistance.

================================
 ~Course 1:Bob-omb Battlefield~
================================
--------------------------------
Star 1:Big Bob-omb on the Summit
--------------------------------
This Star is pretty easy seeing
as how it's the first in the
game. Simply follow the marked
path to the mountain. There are
arrows pointing the way so you
shouldn't get lost. Start going
around and around the mountain,
avoiding the cannonballs along
the way. Once you reach a hole
in the wall, jump into it to use
a warp to get near the top of
the mountain. Walk to the top
and face King Bob-omb. As Yoshi,
you need go eat the Bob-ombs he
throws then spit them into him
again. King Bob-omb will bounce
around the summit for a few
seconds before he keeps
attacking you. Repeat this
process twice more to claim the
Star.

--------------------------------
Star 2:Footrace with Koopa the
Quick
--------------------------------
Another simple Star. First off,
Koopa the Quick is standing near
the start of the level. Talk to
him to start a race to the top
of the mountain. However, you
must be Mario to start the race.
Find the Mario Cap in the level
or just start as Mario and then
begin the race. Follow the same
path as the previous Star to
reach the top of the mountain.
If you beat Koopa the Quick then
you win a Star. Koopa the Quick
gets to the top in about
1:30:00. Try to beat that.

----------------------
Star 3:5 Silver Stars!
----------------------
There are 5 Silver Stars
wondering about the level. You
need to get them all. One is
above the tree near the
beginning of the world, another
is held by a Goomba near where
the Red Coin Star appears,
another is being held by another
Goomba half-way up the mountain.
The 4th is on Chain Chomp's
chain and he is merrily running
around the level so its a pain
to catch him. The last Star is
in the middle of a ring of
flowers near the center of the
level. Once you have all 5
Silver Stars the real Star will
appear right near where you
began the world.

-----------------------------
Star 4:King Bob-omb's Revenge
-----------------------------
You need to head right back to
the top of the mountain again to
face King Bob-omb once more. You
can't be Yoshi for this task,
however anyone else will do just
fine. The battle is a bit
different this time around. You
need to pick up King Bob-omb
from behind and throw him
anywhere except off the
mountain. Do this three times
(What an easy battle) and
another Power Star will be
yours.

-----------------------------
Star 5:Mario Wings to the Sky
-----------------------------
You need to have activated the ?
Red Switch in order to complete
this level. Make your way to the
island in the sky as Mario. Once
there, grab the Wing Cap from
the ? Red Block and hop inside
the cannon. There are 5 Coin
Rings going higher and higher
near the cannon. There is a
Secret in the middle of each.
Aim for the middle coin in the
first ring and fire away. If you
did it properly you will have
gotten all 5 Secrets and a Star
will appear on the ground. If
you didn't, fly back to the
island and try again and again
until you succeed.

---------------------------
Star 6:Find the 8 Red Coins
---------------------------
As the title of the Star says,
you're out to find all 8 Red
Coins to get a Star. Here are
their locations:

Red Coin 1:Head forwards from
start until you reach some
rotating platforms. The Coin is
atop of them. Red Coin 2:In the
field with many Goombas there is
an odd shaped rock. The Red Coin
is ontop of it. Red Coin 3:It is
above the post Chain Chomp is
chained to. Red Coin 4:Head
across the tilting bridge and
take a left to find some poles.
The Red Coin is near these
poles. Red Coin 5:There is
another Red Coin near #4. Red
Coin 6:In the big field with
flowers, near the giant gatepost
is a little path leading under
it to your next Coin. Red Coin
7:Just past the gatepost is a
steep hill. Halfway up the hill
you will find the next Red Coin.
Red Coin 8:The tree on the
floating island has a Red Coin
floating just above it.

Nabbing all 8 Red Coins will
make the Star appear near where
you got Red Coins 4 and 5.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Behind Chain Chomp's Gate
--------------------------------
Head right on over to Chain
Chomp's area. You see the post
he is attached to? You need to
Ground Pound it 3 times to
release Chain Chomp. Do it
quickly before you get hurt.
Releasing Chompy will make him
destroy the nearby gate that was
once guarding the Star.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Grabbing 100 Coins isn't too
challenging. There are many
wooden posts in the world and
running around it several times
spits out 5 Coins. The Red Coins
are also valuable so collect
those too to boost your total.
There's also 45 Coins in the sky
if you need them. Don't get the
Star in the sky, otherwise its a
pain nabbing it!

================================
  ~Course 2:Whomp's Fortress~
================================
-----------------------------
Star 1:Chip off Whomp's Block
-----------------------------
Follow the path to the top of
the Fortress. Be sure not to
fall off into the empty void! At
the very top you will have to
face King Whomp. Make him fall
over then quickly Ground Pound
his back. Do this three times
and he will reveal your Power
Star.

--------------------------------
Star 2:To the Top of the
Fortress
--------------------------------
Simply said in the title. Just
head to the top of Whomp's
Fortress. The top has a new
tower so you will need to climb
that around to reach the Power
Star at the top. Some of the
platforms around the tower are
retracting into the wall and
jutting out time to time, so be
sure to make your jumps
carefully.

-------------------------------
Star 3:Shoot into the Wild Blue
-------------------------------
Head into the shallow water and
follow it across to reach a Bob-
omb Buddy. Talk to it and he
will open up the cannon for you.
Hop inside and aim at the multi-
platform level straight ahead of
you. Aim for one of the back
pillars and blast away. If you
hit it correctly, you will land
on the platform where you can
slide down a pole and claim the
Star. If you missed, you're
probably dead.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Red Coins on the Floating
Isle
--------------------------------
Once again, you're up to the
task of collecting another set
of 8 Red Coins. Here they all
are: Red Coin 1:Head along the
path until you reach those three
things that come in and out of
the wall. The Red Coin is above
them. Red Coin 2:Its above the
second Thwomp on the stairs. Get
on top of him to hitch a ride up
to it. Red Coin 3:After the
stairway you will come to a
Pirhana Plant. The Red Coin is
located right behind him. Red
Coin 4:Right near the collapsing
bridge there is a thin ledge
with a Red Coin in the middle of
it. Red Coin 5:Once you reach
the spinning platform, stand on
the end until you pass through
the Red Coin. Red Coin 6:Punch
the plank at the top of the
fortress to create a bridge to
the floating islands, and a Red
Coin. Red Coin 7:On an adjacent
island near Red Coin 6. Red Coin
8:Near the group of three
Pirhana Plants on the bottom
level is the final Red Coin.

Once you have all 8 Red Coins,
the Power Star will appear near
where you begin the world.

--------------------------------
Star 5:Fall onto the Caged
Island
--------------------------------
Climb to the top of the tree
right next to where you start to
make an owl appear. Hang onto
him as he flys into the air.
Control him over to a very, very
tiny island high above the sky.
Drop off of him correctly and
you will claim the Power Star
inside easily. Miss and it isn't
going to look pretty down there.
You can hang onto the owl for a
long time, and he will gradually
get lower and lower, making the
timing for the fall a bit easier
for you.

--------------------------
Star 6:Blast Away the Wall
--------------------------
Head into the cannon in the
Fortress. Aim to the right and
you will see two corners of
walls. Aim yourself at the one
furthest from the cannon and
blast away. If you hit the
corner, you will break it off
revealing a Power Star. Head up
the Fortress until you reach
this piece of wall then simply
walk into the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Switch Star of the
Fortress
--------------------------------
The Switch Star is on the lowest
level of the Fortress so don't
go climbing around the place.
Once you pass an area with
several bricks, break one of
them to reveal the Switch. Press
it to make a Star appear. Hurry
around the ground level of the
Fortress and grab it.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
This Star is insanely easy.
There is a little over 200 Coins
in Whomp's Fortress and you only
need half of them. Simple stuff.
There's a Blue Coin Switch near
the cannon, all the red coins
and some posts you can destroy
for more Coins. An easy Star
indeed. Don't forget about the
floating islands. You can find
some more coins lurking up
there.

================================
  ~Course 3:Jolly Rodger Bay~
================================
--------------------------------
Star 1:Plunder in the Sunken
Ship
--------------------------------
Paddle out your way to the
middle of the sea. Take a big
breath and dive down underwater.
Eventually you will come to a
sunken ship. Swim near Unagi the
Eel and then swim to the
surface. Swim back down and
Unagi will be swimming around
and the hole he was covering
will be open. Swim into it to be
inside the ship. Open up the
treasure chest inside to lower
the water in the ship. Quickly
swim to the other end. If you
don't make it you will have to
jump up the narrow platforms to
the top. At the bow of the ship
lies a box with the Power Star.

--------------------------------
Star 2:Can the Eel Come Out to
Play?
--------------------------------
Swim out into the big ocean once
again. Once you reach the edge
of the world, dive down. Search
for a small opening in the walls
where Unagi the Eel is (It's
where the Star is on your Map).
Once there, get under the little
hole Unagi is in. He will swim
out of his hole into the open.
The Star is on the end of his
tail. Try to nab it as he's
coming out. Its not easy when
he's quickly swimming about.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Treasure in the Ocean
Cave
--------------------------------
Once again you need to swim out
into the middle of the ocean and
dive deep underwater once more.
Look to the left on the walls
for a large opening you can swim
into. Doing so and you will find
an ocean cave. Here make your
way to the other side of the
cave while dodging the falling
pillars. Open the chests on the
other side like this:

  (1)
(2)                  (3)
  (4)

The Star will appear after the
4th chest is opened.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Blast to the Stone Pillar
--------------------------------
Get into the cannon near the
beginning of the level. If you
haven't talked to the Bob-omb
Buddy yet, he's on the right
side of the level near the main
platforms. Blast to one of the
pillars sticking out of the
water to grab onto it. From
there just jump onto the
platform nearby and hit the
block to claim your Star. You
can't grab onto the bottom half
of the pillars, so aim well to
grab onto the top half.

--------------------------------
Star 5:Red Coins on the Ship
Afloat
--------------------------------
You need to once again collect
all 8 Red Coins stuck inside
this world. Here they all are:

Red Coin 1:Near the Bob-omb
Buddy there is a pillar. Climb
to the top of it to reach one of
the Red Coins. Red Coin 2:Inside
a clam in the deepest part of
the ocean. Red Coin 3:Inside a
clam near the start of the
world. Red Coin 4:Inside a clam
near the start of the world. Red
Coin 5:Inside a clam near the
Bob-omb Buddy. Red Coin 6:Abord
the front of the ship. Red Coin
7:Abord the back of the ship.
Red Coin 8:Abord the back of
ship.

The Star will appear on the
stern of the ship. If you got
Red Coins 6, 7, and 8 last
you'll be right next to it.

-----------------------------
Star 6:Switch Star of the Bay
-----------------------------
Head back to the cavern as Luigi
by swimming to the middle of the
ocean and diving down into it.
Find a ? Red Block as Luigi and
grab the Power Flower. Hit the
Star Switch and quickly run
through the cave and through a
gate while invisible to
hopefully claim the Star.

-----------------------------
Star 7:Through the Jet Stream
-----------------------------
You need to be Wario for this
one. Head onto the only platform
in the main ocean area with a ?
Red Block. Become Metal from the
Power Flower and then jump right
into the waters. Find the Star
underwater once you can walk and
easily jump right into it.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
There aren't many Coins about in
Jolly Rodger Bay. 140 is the max
and there are a lot of tricky
ones. Go for the Red Coins.
There's a Koopa Shell and a Blue
Coin Switch near where you
start. Koopa surf along the
surface of the water to reach
all the Blue Coins. There are
many Coin rings in the world
too, so use them to raise your
total. Don't forget to check the
underwater cavern for some coins
you may have missed.

================================
 ~Course 4:Cool, Cool Mountain~
================================
------------------------
Star 1:Slip Slidin' Away
------------------------
You start off right next to a
snow cottage in the world. Jump
inside the chimney to be
transported to a giant slide.
Race your way down it without
falling. Once you reach the very
end, head out the door and the
Star will appear. Go grab it.

------------------------
Star 2:Li'l Penguin Lost
------------------------
Right above the snow cottage is
a ledge with a baby penguin on
it. Grab him (You can't be Yoshi
for this!) and transport him to
his mommy at the base of the
mountain. You can't use the
slide as a shortcut down because
the penguin won't go down the
chimmney. If you get injured in
any way on your way down the
mountain, you will drop the
penguin. If you get too far away
from him or he walks off the
mountain, then you can find him
again from the start of the
level.

-----------------------
Star 3:Big Penguin Race
-----------------------
The object of this Star is
pretty simple. Head into the
giant slide once more to find a
big penguin. Talk to him to
start a race against him to the
bottom of the slide. Obviously,
you need to kick his ass. Once
you reach the bottom first, wait
for the penguin to finish before
talking to him. He will give you
the Star upon defeat. You can't
use the shortcut to beat him
quickly. If you do, you'll be
disqualified.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Frosty Slide for 8 Red
Coins
--------------------------------
Another Red Coin challenge. You
need to be Yoshi to obtain most
of these Coins, so obviously
choose him.

Red Coin 1:There is an ice cube
right near the top of the
cottege. Inhale fire from a
nearby campfire as Yoshi then
burn up the ice cube revealing
this easy Red Coin. Red Coin
2:At the top of the mountain
near you start is a broken
bridge. Run off the edge and
slide down the mountain until
you reach a small ledge (Don't
overshoot the ledge). Eat fire
again from a fire as Yoshi and
burn down another cube to obtain
this Red Coin. Red Coin 3:This
Red Coin resides in a little
corner of the mountain near
Snowman's big head. Red Coin
4:Head for the ski lift near
Snowman's big head. You'll find
the Red Coin there. Red Coin
5:After the giant bridge make a
left to find a broken bridge.
The Red Coin is on this bridge.
Red Coin 6:At the very bottom of
the mountain there are several
trees. The Red Coin is on top of
one of these trees. Red Coin
7:On a bridge at the very bottom
of the mountain. Red Coin 8:In
an extremely tiny corner of the
very bottom of the mountain. Try
not to fall off!

Once you have obtained all 8
Coins, the Star will apear on
the other side of the bridge you
found Red Coin 5 on.

------------------------------
Star 5:Snowman's Lost his Head
------------------------------
This Star is a bit difficult if
your unlucky. Anyways, all you
need to do is head to the ledge
above the cottage and head
towards the campfire. You will
find a snowball there. Talk to
him and he will ask you to lead
a path to a Snowman who needs a
body. Start sliding down the
mountain quickly. The snowball
is very fast. Don't take any
shortcuts, otherwise the
snowball will easily pass the
target! As long as you don't,
make your way to Snowman's big
ol' head. Hide behind it and
wait for the snowball to crash
into it. If you succeeded, the
Snowman, with pleasure, will
hand over another Star.

------------------------------
Star 6:Mario's Super Wall Kick
------------------------------
Of course, you need to be Mario
for this Star. Get yourself to
the bottom of the mountain and
find the ski lift. Halfway up
you will find a Bob-omb Buddy.
Talk to him to open up the
cannons. Head back down to the
bottom of the mountain and hop
in the cannon. Aim for a tree
over the gap with good aim and
fire away. If you get on the
tree without dying, then good.
Follow the path around to some
high platforms. You need to
perform Wall Kicks in order to
reach these platforms. Once you
reach the top one walk across
the icy bridge to the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Switch Star of the
Mountain
--------------------------------
Head down to the base of the
mountain once more, as Wario
this time around though. Head to
Mama Penguin's little pond and
Ground Pound the ice to destroy
it. Head to the Bob-omb Buddy
halfway up the ski lift. The
Switch Star is right next to
him. Once activated, jump right
off the small island. Wind gusts
will push you over to land again
where you can make a quick
sprint right to the Star.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Another easy Star for you to
obtain. Make sure you collect
many Coins in the cottage slide
first because if you get the
Star activated on the slide and
leave, the Star will disappear.
There's also the 8 Red Coins and
many Coins on the way down the
mountain. Oh, and don't forget
about the good Blue Coin Switch
as well. It's near where the Red
Coin Star appears.

================================
   ~Course 5:Big Boo's Haunt~
================================
-------------------------
Star 1:Go on a Ghost Hunt
-------------------------
There are 5 Boo's roaming about
the first floor of Boo's
Mansion. You need to kill all 5
of them. While outside, head
around to the back of the
mansion to find a door leading
to 2 Boo's. Kill them with a
ground pound, then re-enter
through the front door. The top
left door and furthest right
door will lead you to the other
Boo's. Once they are all dead,
Big Boo will appear in the main
room. Ground Pound or punch him
in the back three times to
reveal the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 2:Ride Big Boo's Merry-Go-
Round
--------------------------------
Once you begin the course turn
to the left of where you start
to find a shack like place.
Enter it to find an elevator
leading to the basement of the
mansion. Enter a few doors to
find yourself in Big Boo's
Merry-Go- Round. There are
several Boo painting on the
wall. One continually spits fire
and another one holds all the
Boo's. Turn your back on each
painting until you find it. Kill
all 5 Boo's to make Big Boo
appear. Kill him again to make a
Star appear.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Secret of the Haunted
Books
--------------------------------
Using the newly formed stairs
inside the mansion, make your
way to the second floor. One of
the doors up here leads to the
haunted library in the house.
Once inside, make your way to
the other end of the hallway
without taking too much damage
from the Bookends. You will find
3 books sticking out of their
shelves at the end. Push them
into the shelves by jumping into
them in the following
order:Highest book, lowest book,
middle book. This causes the
bookshelf to move away,
revealing a door. Head through
it to be on a balcony with a
Star on it.

---------------------------
Star 4:Seek the 8 Red Coins
---------------------------
Another 8 Red Coins lurk around
somewhere in the Mansion.
There's nothing in the basement,
so don't look there:

Red Coin 1:The furthest left
door on the first floor leads to
a room with a piano that tries
to chomp you if you get too
close. The Red Coin is placed
conveniently behind it. Red Coin
2:The furthest left door from
the entrance of the Mansion
leads to a room with two
bookshelves. There is a Red Coin
on top of one of the bookshelves
in the room. Red Coin 3:On an
adjacent bookshelf Red Coin 2
was on. Red Coin 4:The furthest
right door from the entrance
leads to a room with thin
ledges. The Red Coin is placed
very precariously on one of
these itty bitty ledges. Red
Coin 5:One of the doors on the
second floor leads to a wire
grating room. The Red Coin is
sorta camoflouged on the ground.
Red Coin 6:A door on the second
floor leads to a room with some
coffins. Get near one and it'll
lift up. One will reveal a Red
Coin. Red Coin 7:The furthest
right door on the second floor
leads to a room with a Red Coin
in the corner. Red Coin 8:Use
Balloon Mario to reach the top
of the main room where a Red
Coin lies in a suspended
fashion.

Once you have obtained all 8 Red
Coins, the Star appears in the
moonlight on the second floor.

------------------------
Star 5:Big Boo's Balcony
------------------------
Head to the second floor of the
Mansion as Mario and take the
furthest right door in the main
room. Use the Power Flower to
float up to a ledge just a bit
higher than your current
position. Enter the door, and
then take the double doors there
out of the room. You'll find
none other than Big Boo on this
tiny balcony. Kill him easily
and the Star will appear on the
roof. Long Jump to once of the
sides of the mansion and run
onto the flat roof, then over to
the Star, or use Balloon Mario
to quickly reach it.

--------------------------------
Star 6:Eye to Eye in the Secret
Room
--------------------------------
You need to be Luigi for this
Star. Head to the same ? Power
Flower box as in the previous
Star as Luigi. Grab the Flower
and Backflip to the third floor
ledge. In the next room, find a
Boo painting you can walk
through. Inside you will find a
huge Mr. I. Once you are not
invisible, run around him
several times for him to die,
and to claim your Star.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Switch Star in the
Basement
--------------------------------
Use Wario and travel to the
basement of the mansion. There
is a black brick covering a Star
Switch. Break it then switch to
any fast character, like Mario.
Activate the Switch and run
around the basement to the other
side of a grating to find the
Star. Hurry up! You don't have
enough time to take a shortcut
through the Merry Go Round.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
There are tons of Blue Coins to
be horded in the Mansion. Every
Mr. I and Boo spits out a Blue
Coin. There's 5 Boo's in the
Merry Go Round, 5 in the Mansion
and one on the third floor of
it. There are several Mr. I's
and don't forget the Blue Coin
Switch near the entrance to Big
Boo's Balcony. There are several
spiders outside you can kill,
and the red coins. There's coins
in a bouncing box near the
outside shed, and some coins on
the roof.

================================
   ~Course 6:Hazy Maze Cave~
================================
--------------------------------
Star 1:Swimming Beast in the
Cavern
--------------------------------
Once you begin the world, start
off by head down the left path
at the beginning. You need to
use a Long Jump or a Triple Jump
Dive in order to clear to long
gap. Once on the other side,
head through the door. In the
Black Hole Room, make your way
around the room to the other
side very carefully because the
black hole if you fall into it
is instant death. Once on the
other side you will have to
avoid several rolling boulders
in order to reach a door. Be
careful here. Once through the
door, you should find an
elevator. Head down it to the
underground cavern. Dorrie the
swimming sea beast is slowly
paddling around in the water in
this room. Get onto his back by
jumping up to it from the water
and Ground Pound it. He will
lower his neck so you can walk
onto his head. Grab the Wario
Cap here and then jump off and
swim over to the island in the
middle of the room. Punch open
the giant boulder to reveal a
Star.

------------------------------
Star 2:Elevate for 8 Red Coins
------------------------------
Another 8 Red Coins lie inside
the Hazy Maze Cave. Head into
the main room (The one with
access to the Hazy Maze).

Red Coin 1:Head onto the
stairway in the corner of the
room and walk up it onto a
elevator with arrows on it. The
elevator moves in the direction
you push the buttons on. Using
these instructions, make your
way to a block near you and
break it to expose the Coin. Red
Coin 2:There are many more
bricks in the air while using
the manual elevator, but only
one of the contains the Red Coin
your looking for. Try to find
it. Red Coin 3:One of the
corners of the main room holds a
Red Coin on a high ledge. Make
the elevator reach it. Red Coin
4:Long Jump from the elevator's
default position to a pole in
the distance. Climb it to the
top to find an automatic
elevator. It will pull you right
into a Red Coin. Red Coin
5:Further along the automatic
elevator's path you will come to
a box. Smash it to reveal the
Red Coin. Red Coin 6:The
automatic elevator will go under
a small clearence platform.
Above it is the Red Coin. Red
Coin 7:Eventually the elevator
will pass by a large platform.
One of the Red Coins is here.
Red Coin 8:Right next to Red
Coin 7.

Once you have gotten all 8 Red
Coins, the Star will appear in
the middle of the main room.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Metal-Head Wario Can Move
--------------------------------
You're going to have to be Wario
for this Star. Heh. Anyways,
from the beginning just head
down the left path once more.
You are aiming to go to the
cavern. You need to use a Long
Jump or a Tiple Jump Dive in
order to clear to long gap. Once
on the other side, head through
the door. In the Black Hole
Room, make your way around the
room to the other side very
carefully because the black hole
if you fall into it is instant
death. Once on the other side
you will have to avoid several
rolling boulders in order to
reach a door. Be careful here.
Once through the door, you
should find an elevator. Head
down it to the underground
cavern. Dorrie the swimming sea
beast is slowly paddling around
in the water in this room. Get
onto his back by jumping up to
it from the water and Ground
Pound it. He will lower his neck
so you can walk onto his head.
Grab the Wario Cap here incase
you aren't Wario. Head back to
the elevator, but don't step in
it. Grab the Power Flower nearby
to turn metal. Follow the light
brown path into the water and
keep on following it underwater
as well. Eventually you will
come to a ! Switch. Step on it.
This opens a nearby gate. Now,
enter the revealed door. You
need to Long Jump to and
extremely thin platform and make
another Long Jump to the Star.
Don't mess up here! Take your
time if need be.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Navigating the Toxic Maze
--------------------------------
From where you start this time
around you want to follow the
path on the right to the main
room. It's time you actually
entered the Hazy Maze. Once
you're inside the main room,
take the second door on your
left. It's through a very short
hallway so you'll know what's
what. In the room you will find
a map of the maze, a hole and a
few Coins. Jump into the hole.
You'll fall into the toxic maze
full of nausiating gas. Quickly
run onto high ground. Face a
nearby Sniffit and follow these
instruction to reach the Star.
Head forwards and to the right,
then make a left before the
ledge. Continue along this
passage until you reach some
Monty Moles. Keep going (You're
likely a bit low on health now)
past them and you will find a
wall with some light-green
stripes. Double Jump to the
ledge above it and head through
the door. Ride up the elevator
to your Star. You can also head
to the underground cavern as
Luigi, pick up a Power Flower,
head back up the elevator and
walk to the Star through the
wire grating if you wish.

--------------------------------
Star 5:A-maze-ing Emergency Exit
--------------------------------
From where you start this time
around you want to follow the
path on the right to the main
room. Its time we actually
entered the Hazy Maze. Once your
inside the main room, take the
second door on your left. Its
through a very short hallway so
you'll know what's what. In the
room you will find a map of the
maze, a hole and a few Coins.
Jump into the hole. You'll fall
into the toxic maze full of
nausiating gas. Quickly run onto
high ground. Face a nearby
Sniffit and follow these
instruction to reach the Star.
Head forwards and to the right,
then make a left before the
ledge. Continue along this
passage until you reach some
Monty Moles. You will be right
infront of a ledge now so jump
onto it and head through the
door and up the elevator. At the
top, head through the door to be
above the black hole room. Get
onto the mesh wiring and make
your way danglingly over to the
Star on a precariously placed
platform.

------------------------------
Star 6:Watch for Falling Rocks
------------------------------
Head left once you begin and
make your way over the pit gap
as Wario. In the black hole
room, Long Jump to a black brick
block to the left. Break it to
find a Mushroom inside. Grab it
and run over several boulders to
destroy them. Once you have
destroyed several, a Star will
appear nearby. Alternatively,
you can Punch them with Wario
but the timing is hard and its
easier to just run them over.

------------------------------
Star 7:Underground Switch Star
------------------------------
Head right as you start the
level to eventually reach the
main room. You need to be Wario
for this task so start as him.
There is a black brick block in
this room so try to find it. The
Switch Star is hidden right
under the block. Activate it
then rush over to the manual
elevator that is right up those
there steps. At the top, run
over the elevator and Long Jump
to the other side where the Star
Sphere is located. Just bump
right into it to claim the Star
inside.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
This is pretty much been polled
on as one of the hardest 100
Coins Star in the game. I'm
confused as to why. There is a
Blue Coin Switch in the Hazy
Maze. You can use Invisible
Luigi to run through and get
them or Metal Wario because
neither of them is affected by
the gases. There's a Coin ring
near the elevator leading to the
underground cavern and one on
the island in the underground
cavern. Also, there's the Red
Coins and plenty of enemies to
be found in the main room.
There's lots of Coins here.

================================
  ~Course 7:Lethal Lava Land~
================================
-------------------------
Star 1:Boil the Big Bully
-------------------------
Turn around from where you start
to see an island with a ? Red
Block on it. Make a Long Jump
over to the island as Mario and
grab the Wing Cap inside. Now
start flying over to a normal
platform along to course. If you
fly over a giant Bowser puzzle
then your going the right way.
Just follow the path over land
and soon you will make it to a
platform with a giant Bully on
it. Kill him just like a normal
Bully. He's no different then
any other Bully, so don't worry.
All you need to do is jump into
him to knock him back. The Star
will appear on a tall platform
nearby. Quickly jump up a
collapsible staircase to get it.

------------------------
Star 2:Bully the Bullies
------------------------
Turn around from where you start
to see an island with a ? Red
Block on it. Make a Long Jump
over to the island as Mario and
grab the Wing Cap inside. Now
start flying over to a normal
platform along to course. If you
fly over a giant Bowser puzzle
then your going the right way.
Just follow the path over land
and soon you will make it to a
platform with a giant Bully on
it. You already defeated him so
continue on flying to another
platform with 3 Bullies on it.
Land here and defeat them all.
They all like to attack you at
once so be prepared. Once they
have all died, Big Bully will
appear for a rematch. Defeat him
just like you did before. Once
he's dead, the Star will appear
on the platform you're on.

--------------------------------
Star 3:8-Coin Puzzle with 15
Pieces
--------------------------------
This is the easiest Red Coin
Star in the entire game. It's
sad to see how easy this thing
is. Head to the Bowser Puzzle.

Red Coin 1:On a piece on the
Bowser Puzzle Red Coin 2:On a
piece on the Bowser Puzzle Red
Coin 3:On a piece on the Bowser
Puzzle Red Coin 4:On a piece on
the Bowser Puzzle Red Coin 5:On
a piece on the Bowser Puzzle Red
Coin 6:On a piece on the Bowser
Puzzle Red Coin 7:On a piece on
the Bowser Puzzle Red Coin 8:On
a piece on the Bowser Puzzle

Once you have easily obtained
all of the red coins, the Star
will appear on a grey platform
right next to the puzzle.

--------------------------
Star 4:Red-Hot Log Rolling
--------------------------
Turn around from where you start
to see an island with a ? Red
Block on it. Make a Long Jump
over to the island as Mario and
grab the Wing Cap inside. Now
start flying over back to where
you started until you reach a
small arch. Stand ontop of it
and face a giant and tall black
grating. Start flying towards it
and head over it. The Star is on
the other side, so try to fall
onto it (This is the shorter,
easier method of doing this Star
without doing the actualy log).

--------------------------------
Star 5:Hot-Foot-It into the
Volcano
--------------------------------
There is a volcano right smack-
dab in the middle of the level.
Make your way to it and jump
inside the opening (Which you
may think is suicide, but it
isn't). Inside you need to work
your way around and around the
edge of the volcano to somewhere
near the top where a Star is. If
you get on an elevator, you're
going the wrong way. Be careful!
There are several booby traps
along the way that will hurt
you, possibly flinging you off
the edge of the ledge you are
currently on. The most
surprising is a giant piece of
wall that falls out once your
near it. Remember to take your
time as you work your way to the
Star.

-------------------------
Star 6:Inside the Volcano
-------------------------
There is a volcano right smack-
dab in the middle of the level.
Make your way to it and jump
inside the opening (Which you
may think is suicide but it
isn't). (Sound familar?) Instead
of going the path you took
before, you are going to go the
opposite direction as the last
Star. Walk onto the automatic
elevator and just wait for it to
reach a second elevator which
you need to jump onto. This
elevator will circle around a
pole before being dipped in lava
so get onto the pole while you
have the chance. At the top,
jump onto a platform and from
there it is pretty easy to reach
the nearby Star. Just don't
fall. No pressure!

---------------------------
Star 7:Flaming Silver Stars
---------------------------
There are 5 Silver Stars
scattered throughout the world
and the only way to obtain them
all is to use a Koopa Shell
which is located inside a ?
Yellow Block near the start of
the world. Once on it, surf your
way into each of the Silver
Stars. Be careful through and
don't run into any walls or
anything because you will lose
the Koopa Shell and possible
stranded on an island in a sea
of lava. The hurts real bad.
Once you have them all, the real
Star will appear near the start
of ther world.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
As always you need to collect
100 Coins within this world.
However, it isn't as hard as it
looks. As Wario, punch away the
black brick block near the Koopa
Shell to reveal a Blue Coin
Switch. Activate it then follow
the trail of Blue Coins on the
lava with the Koopa Shell for
some massive Coinage. There's a
ton of Bullies in the world and
many strands of Coins. Don't
forget about the Red Coins as
well! If you need some
additional coins, hop inside the
volcano. Be forewarned that
there are limited coins in the
volcano, and you can't leave
once you enter.

================================
 ~Course 8:Shifting Sand Land~
================================
--------------------------------
Star 1:In the Tallons of the Big
Bird
--------------------------------
You need to make your way onto
any one of the 4 pillars in the
level. But what pillars am I
talking about? The tall red
ones. You can walk up their
sides no problem. Once your on
top of one of them wait for
Klepto the Vulture to get above
you. He is holding the Star in
his tallons. Jump into him to
get him startled and have him
drop the Star. Jump off the
pillar and head right over to
it. It will appear near the
oasis which is just past the Tox
Box maze.

-------------------------------
Star 2:Shining Atop the Pyramid
-------------------------------
There is a Power Star resting
near the top of the pyramid.
Either take the Koopa Shell
resting on the room of the
pavillion and surf up the sides
of the pyramid to nab it, or use
the ledges placed around the
pyramid to eventually reach the
top. If you choose the latter
your in for some trouble as many
enemies and thin ledges make the
path hard. But you will get to
the top eventually. You can also
use a Wing Cap, found at the top
of the small hut near the
beginning of the level, if you
are Mario.

-------------------------
Star 3:Inside the Pyramid
-------------------------
Use the same tactics as in the
last Star to reach the pyramid
once again. However this time
you're not going to the top
outside per-se, but rather the
tippy top of the inner pyramid.
Looks shallow and tiny from
outside? Enter the hole to find
out its real size. The pyramid
is gigantic. You need to reach
the Star placed at the very top
of the pyramid. Just follow the
paths around the edges of the
pyramid as you go up and up and
up. Be sure not to fall. It's
extremely easy, and I mean
really easy to fall right off
the edges and have to start your
climb over again. Pain in the
ass. Once you reach the top you
need to make one last jump in
order to actually claim the
Star.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Stand Tall on the Four
Pillars
--------------------------------
This Star just sounds so
obvious. Stand tall on the 4
pillars. It is said right there
in the title! If you are
clueless as to which pillars
there are referring to, they are
the tall red platforms placed
around the pyramid. Its a simple
mission really. Simply use
Mario, grab the Wing Cap on top
of the pavillion near the
beginning of the level and fly
to each of the pillars. Stand on
top of every pillar and once you
have done it correctly, you'll
hear a common noise and the top
of the pyramid will explode,
revealing a hole at the top.
What now? Fly to the now exposed
top of the pyramid and drop down
the hole. You will be inside the
ancient pyramid once more, but
this time around you will appear
on an elevator that will begin
moving once aboard.

It will eventially reach the
bottom and stop, and you will be
infront of a hole in the wall.
Punch a block infront of you and
walk down the path to appear
inside a small chamber with a
pit on the edges and a couch.
Get on the "couch" and it will
appear that it was just 2 giant
hands resting. You've disturbed
Eyerok and it's a fight to the
death! The battle is very
simple. Simply keep moving and
whenever one of the hands open
their eyes, punch them. Punch
each eye 3 times to defeat them
and claim a Star.

--------------------------
Star 5:Tox Box Switch Star
--------------------------
Yeah, those giant Tox Boxes hold
a secret. Well at least their
maze does to whatever extent.
You need to be Wario for this
one so start off as him or grab
his Cap in the world. Somewhere
in the hard to describe Tox Box
maze is a black brick block.
Once destroyed it will reveal
the Star Switch. It is
imperitive that you don't get
killed when attempting to
navigate the Tox Box maze. Once
have located and destroyed the
black brick and have the Star
Switch revealed, you can attempt
to sprint over to the Star with
Wario. This saves time, but some
jumps are a bit difficult to
pull off and if you miss one of
the gaps you will die right
there on the spot. If you switch
back to Luigi or Mario then you
have a better chance of reaching
the Star. The Star Sphere is
located next to the pool of
water in the oasis. Quickly get
there!

---------------------
Star 6:Pyramid Puzzle
---------------------
This Star is likely to get on
your nerves if you keep messing
up a lot like someone here.
Enter the pyramid via any
method. Flying, walking, Koopa
Surfin', doesn't matter. As long
as you get inside the pyramid,
you're fine. Now once inside you
need to once again make your way
to the top. When you get near
the platform that holds the Star
at the top, stop. There is a
piece of guardrail on the side
near the sand-fall that is
missing. You will drop onto a
Coin which is one of the secrets
if you jumped correctly. Jump to
the left a bit and fall onto
another Secret Coin. Jump over
to the right for a third Secret
Coin. If you miss a platform you
have no choice but to get back
to the top again. This may
infuriate you to extreme ends.
Once you have three, jump onto
the moving quicksand river. You
won't sink all the way down so
don't worry. You will move right
into the other 2 Secrets. The
Star is right near the end of
the path.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Free Flying for 8 Red
Coins
--------------------------------
Another Star that is clearly
labeled in its title. However,
there are only 4 Red Coins
hovering around the pyramid. The
other 4 are strewn somewhere in
the world.

Red Coin 1:Turn around from your
starting point and run that
direction until you find this
Red Coin. Red Coin 2:This Red
Coin lies inside a brick block
inside the pavillion. Destroy it
to earn the Coin. Red Coin
3:This Coin lies right next to
the pool of water in the oasis.
Swim to reach it. Red Coin
4:Somewhere in the Tox Box maze.
It is located directly adjacent
from the cannon. Red Coin 5:This
Red Coin is hovering in the air
right near the pyramid. Use
Flying Mario to reach it. Red
Coin 6:This Red Coin is hovering
in the air right near the
pyramid. Use Flying Mario to
reach it. Red Coin 7:This Red
Coin is hovering in the air
right near the pyramid. Use
Flying Mario to reach it. Red
Coin 8:This Red Coin is hovering
in the air right near the
pyramid. Use Flying Mario to
reach it.

As always, collecting all of the
Coins will enable to Star. It
appears on the top of the
pavillion. Make sure you don't
fall into quicksand if your Wing
Cap disappears when flying!

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
There are a ton of Coins inside
Shifting Sand Land, but you have
to search extremely hard to
obtain all of them. Collect all
of the Red Coins and defeat all
of the Pokies around the world-
each one give up a Blue Coin.
Once you have about 45 or so
Coins you can enter the pyramid
and still get the Star easily.
There is a Blue Coin Switch near
the entrance of where you drop
down into the pyramid. Use that,
and all to enemies and Coins in
there to eventually reach the
Star.

================================
   ~Course 9:Dire Dire Docks~
================================
-------------------------
Star 1:Board Bowser's Sub
-------------------------
Bowser has a hidden submarine
somewhere in the vincinity of
Dire Dire Docks. Completing this
Star is the only way to gain
access to Bowser in the Fire
Sea, so you have little choice
on the matter. Start off by
diving down into the water (your
dumped into water at the
beginning) until you see a hole
in the wall. Be careful down
here, though! There are tons of
enemies and a giant whirlpool
that will kill you instantly if
you venture to close to it. Once
you reach the tunnel, swim
through it. Near the middle is a
place where you can get back all
of your lost energy so use it if
neccessary. At the end you will
be in a large room with a giant
submarine at the top of it. Get
onto dry land and find a !
Switch. Flip it to create nearby
platforms you can use to reach
the top of the submarine for a
few seconds. Once your aboard
the submarine you can easily
find the Star.

----------------------------
Star 2:Chests in the Current
----------------------------
This Star is very quick to do
and die all at the same time.
Near the whirlpool there are 3
chests. You need to open them up
in the correct order to earn the
Star. You want to open them up
in this order in my pretty
diagram: [ 2 ] <-- Furthest from
whirlpool
   [ 1 ]  <-- Kinda close to whi
 [ 3 ]  <--Right infront of whir

It is an extremely dangerous
Star. After opening the 3rd
chest, swim like mad to the
Star.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Pole-Jumping for Red
Coins
--------------------------------
Remember where Bowser's Sub was?
It has moved out of the world
via some giant hole in the wall.
Meh. Swim your way back to that
room again. 8 Red Coins are in
this room. Use the poles on the
ceiling to reach them, or use
Mario's Floating ability.

Red Coin 1:Using the brick
blocks that didn't lead to
Bowser's Sub, you will find a
Red Coin at the top. Red Coin
2:Use a pole to reach an area
left of the first Red Coin. Red
Coin 3:Near Red Coin 2. Red Coin
4:Near Red Coin 3. Red Coin 5:It
inside a caged platform reached
via a pole after the Blue Coin
Switch platform. Red Coin
6:Floating in mid-air near some
caged platforms. Run into it
with one of the poles. Red Coin
7:Floating in mid-air near some
caged platforms. Run into it
with one of the poles. Red Coin
8:Floating in mid-air near some
caged platforms. Run into it
with one of the poles.

Once you have all of the Red
Coins you will get the usual
reward- another Power Star for
your collection.

-----------------------------
Star 4:Through the Jet Stream
-----------------------------
Head back to the same room with
Bowser's Sub you've been to for
a few Stars. Underwater, there
is a giant vent that is creating
rings in the water. They quickly
float upwards. You need to go
through 5 consecutive rings.
Just stay in one place and wait
for them to pass through you.
Once you have gone through 5 of
them, you can use Metal Wario to
reach the Star that is dangling
in the strong currents.

--------------------------------
Star 5:Koopa Surfin' Switch Star
--------------------------------
You must be Wario for this
aggrivating Star. Once you start
off, swim on the surface of the
water towards a small island
with several black bricks on it.
Break several of them. One will
reveal a Switch Star, one
reveals some Coins, and another
reveals a Koopa Shell. Activate
the Switch Star to have a Star
appear in the Star Sphere on the
other side of the water. You
have about six or so seconds to
reach the Star. Get on the Koopa
Shell and quickly zip over there
before its too late!

----------------------
Star 6:Inside the Cage
----------------------
Once again you must make your
way back to the same room where
Bowser's Sub once laid. Once
there you need to get out of the
water as Luigi and turn
invisible via the Power Flower
in the room. Once invisible you
can jump into the water and dive
down deep to find a cage with a
Star inside. Because Luigi is
invisible he can go right
through the cage and collect the
Star that awaits inside.

-----------------------------
Star 7:The Manta Ray's Reward
-----------------------------
Now you don't have to travel
back into the area I know you
love so much. In the first area
of the world there is a rather
large Manta Ray just merrily
swimming around the world.
Behind him his tail is creating
the same kinds of rings you had
to travel through in the fourth
Star. This Star is basically the
fourth one only with a moving
target and you have to work for
5 consecutive rings. The Manta
Ray moves up and down so you
need to react fast. The rings
also disappear really quickly so
you need to be very careful.
Once you have 5, the Star will
appear right above the
whirlpool, so good luck getting
it.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
You know the drill. Barely 110
Coins are in this world and its
a pain getting most of them.
There are a lot of Coins near
the giant whirlpool in the world
so get those Coins first so you
don't die later and scream in
anger a lot. There is a Blue
Coin Switch in the giant
submarine area, which gives a
total of 30 Coins. Good stuff.
Many Coin rings abound too. Not
hard for the Coins, but the
dangers are plenty.

================================
   ~Course 10:Snowman's Land~
================================
-------------------------
Star 1:Snowman's Big Head
-------------------------
The Star is perched on the very
top of the giant Snowman in the
world. It's a bit tricky getting
to it, but you have no choice.
Start off by heading right from
where you start and follow the
path around the world. There
isn't any other way to go so you
should not be getting lost or
anything. Eventually you will
reach a pond of water. Don't get
in the water! It's freezing
water, see? It hurts you slowly
if you are in it. Jump over the
small gap of water onto an
island where giant icicles are
being shot down a long
passageway. Head down that said
passageway to the end, jumping
over the giant mounds of ice. At
the end, Triple Jump onto the
top of the cannon. Once there,
simply follow the very thin path
around the side of the Snowman
to get infront of his face The
Snowman will be angered by your
appearence and will start
blowing really hard. If you set
foot on the bridge you will get
blown off and lose your hat
(unless you're Yoshi). To get
across without being blown off,
get on top of the Penguin that
is waddling back and forth
across the bridge or stay to the
side of him until you cross it.
Either way, on the other side
follow the simple path to the
very top, and claim the Star.

---------------------------
Star 2:Chill with the Bully
---------------------------
You may have noticed during your
trek on the previous Star a
giant Ice Bully on a small ice
bridge. Head there for your next
Star. On the slippery platform
you need to do what you do for
any Bully-push him off the
platform. However, you're being
pushed into really cold water.
Not just cold from the pond, but
so cold it's not funny. You will
bounce around like you jumped
into lava if you touch it. Just
push the Bully into the water
before you die to claim a Star.

----------------------------
Star 3:Yoshi's Ice Sculpture
----------------------------
To the left of where you start
are a ton of ice blocks, and
inside the one on the top is a
Power Star. Now this is a bit of
a difficult puzzle and you may
have to leave the course several
times to reset it. Using Yoshi's
Power Flower ability, melt the
highest block on the first
column so you can jump onto the
lowest block. Then look left and
burn the ice block there to make
another platform. Jump onto an
ice block one block higher than
you and you are from there able
to burn away the block
containing the Star. If these
directions are a bit too
confusing, you could always try
thinking out this minor puzzle
yourself.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Whirl from the Freezing
Pond
--------------------------------
Head around the world until you
reach the freezing pond. There
are many Spindrifts in this pond
and a brick wall on the other
side. The idea here is to jump
onto one of the Spindrifts to
kill it and be propelled into
the air and slowly float back
down. You want to float over to
the other side of the
aforementioned brick wall. Its
not too difficult but you need
to have the right Spindrift that
isn't very close to the wall but
a good distance from it that can
easily be jumped on. Across the
wall are 2 boxes. One has a
Koopa Shell, the other has the
Star.

-----------------------------
Star 5:Snowman's Silver Stars
-----------------------------
5 Silver Stars are roaming about
the world, and its up to you to
unite all of them into one true
Power Star. You must use the
Koopa Shell for this Star. Its
in the box that is right next to
the box that contained the
previous Star. Three Silver
Stars are near the Koopa Shell
and if you don't get them then
its impossible to get them again
unless you leave the world due
to the Spindrifts no
reappearing, making it
impossible to get over the wall
again. There is a tricky Silver
Star. It's under the platform
the Ice Bully rests on. If you
hit one of the icicles there
while on the Shell your as good
as dead. Be careful. The Star
will appear near the beginning
of the world once you have all
5.

---------------------
Star 6:Into the Igloo
---------------------
Once again you need the Koopa
Shell for this Star. Once you
have it, head back over the
brick wall and head right. You
know that little passageway
those giant icicles are being
shoved on? There's a steep ramp
to the right of them. Head up
that ramp with the Koopa Shell
to find an igloo. Enter it as
Luigi. Inside you'll find a
spacious room, with lots of
freezing water and a small part
of floor that is grated
down...with a Star under it.
Great. There is a Power Flower
in the back of the igloo. Hurry
up and get it then rush over to
the grating, fall through it and
you are easily able to claim the
Star resting there.

-----------------------------
Star 7:Red Coins in the House
-----------------------------
There isn't exactly any house
inside Snowman's Land, but there
is an igloo. And that is where
all 8 Red Coins reside. Use the
Koopa Shell again to reach it.

Red Coin 1:High above the ground
Red Coin 2:High above the ground
Red Coin 3:On the ground
Red Coin 4:On the ground
Red Coin 5:On the ground
Red Coin 6:In the cold water
Red Coin 7:In the cold water
Red Coin 8:In the cold water

The Star appears near the
entrance of the igloo.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
There are so many Coins inside
Snowman's Land its hard to say
truly how many there really are.
The outside out the world has
tons of enemies and tons of
Coins and same with the igloo.
Somewhere in the world is 3
Goombas around a campfire. If
you go inside the igloo and come
out, those Goombas will give you
more Coins. You can easily
exploit this over and over again
until you have 255 Coins if you
wish.

================================
   ~Course 11:Wet-Dry World~
================================
----------------------------
Star 1:Shocking Arrow Lifts!
----------------------------
Enter the course with the water
at its lowest possible level.
Head left from where you start
and find a structure with a
diamond water raiser at the top
of it, shaped like an "L". Stand
at the corner where the lines
intersect and you will be
transported near a cannon high
above the level. Fall off the
structure you are on to a ledge
below you. Hit the ! Block here
to reveal the Star.

----------------------
Star 2:Top O' the Town
----------------------
Enter the course with the water
level raised to its highest
point. Swim straight ahead from
where you appear and up the part
of the ramp that isn't
underwater. Jump up the few
steps ahead of you and over the
gaps until you reach a small
clearing with a Chuck-Ya. To the
left of him is a wooden plank
suspended in the air. Get onto
the plank and follow it to the
end to a spinning platform. Two
platforms away from here is the
Star.

--------------------------------
Star 3:5 Secrets in the Shallows
& Sky
--------------------------------
You need to find all five
secrets to make a Star appear,
and none of them are actual
coins. Enter the course with the
water level at its lowest. From
where you start, head left all
the way to the end of the level.
Along the wall you should find a
red and grey block. Start
pushing it left. You will get
the first secret as you do. Keep
pushing it so you can hit a !
Block nearby. Hit that block to
get the second secret.

Now head onto the ledge near the
block. Ignore the Heave-Ho for
now and find another grey and
red block. Push this into the
small crevice for the third
secret. Use the Heave-Ho to
reach the next part of the
level, then use it again to
reach the upper area. An Amp is
circling around a small
platform. Hit the ! Block on
this platform for the fourth
secret. Head right and onto a !
Switch which makes blocks appear
leading to the top of the cage.
Hit the ! Block here for the
final secret. The Star appears
on a platform far down below.
Either raise the water level to
reach it/swim to it, or use
Balloon Mario to reach the
platform.

--------------------------------
Star 4:Express Elevator--Hurry
Up!
--------------------------------
Start the course with the water
level at its highest point.
Climb to the very top of the
level. Near the area with Chuck-
Ya is a Red ! Block. As Luigi,
hit it to become invisible.
Backflip and pass through the
cage to reach the Star. To
complete this Star normally,
enter the course with the water
at its lowest point. Make your
way to top of the level and onto
the cage with the Star. Get onto
the outside platform of the
elevator without the Star, and
it will descend. At the bottom,
break the block and get onto the
elevator on the inside of the
cage quickly. When it reaches
the top, get the Star.

-------------------------------
Star 5:Go to Town for Red Coins
-------------------------------
Enter the course with the water
level at its highest point. Swim
over to the large cage with an
opening dead ahead of you when
you appear. Jump into the
opening and swim down into the
downtown area. Hit the diamond
water raiser at the bottom, in a
corner near a house with a red
roof. Get the red coins from
here.

Red Coin 1:In a block on a ledge
on the wall surrounding the
church Red Coin 2:In a block
next to Red Coin 1 Red Coin 3:In
a block infront of the church
Red Coin 4:In a block in the
east area of downtown, on a roof
Red Coin 5:In a block in the
west area of downtown, on a roof
Red Coin 6:In a block on a roof
adjacent to Red Coin 4 Red Coin
7:In a block on a roof reachable
from the roof at Red Coin 5 Red
Coin 8:In a block next to Red
Coin 7

The Star appears inside the
little church.

--------------------------------
Star 6:Quick Race Through
Downtown!
--------------------------------
Start the course with the water
level at its highest point. Once
again, enter the downtown area
via the large open gated cage.
Lower the water level and pick
up the Luigi Cap is necessary.
Get a Power Flower to turn
invisible, then quickly reach
the northwest corner of the town
and enter the cage. Backflip
onto the above ledge to reach
the Star.

--------------------------
Star 7:Soaked Silver Stars
--------------------------
Start the course with the water
level at its highest. Get to the
upper area of the town and pick
up the Power Flower as Mario.
Float upwards towards where the
Top O' the Town Star was, and
far above it is the first Silver
Star. Dive into the water. Under
the grey ramp that leads to the
upper area of the town is a
Silver Star.

Head back near where you started
and dive underwater. Another
Silver Star is visible above a
platform. Near another platform
made of bricks is the fourth
Silver Star. Now, use a diamond
water raiser to lower the water
to its lowset point. Punch the
bricks near where you started to
reveal the fifth Silver Star.
The Star will appear near the
area with the Chuck-Ya. Use the
diamond water raisers or the
Heave-Ho's to reach the Star and
collect it.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Start off the course with the
water at its lowest point. There
are many coins in Wet-Dry World.
Punch all the blocks you can for
coins, get the Blue Coin Switch
on a ledge near where you start,
kill the foes you can kill, and
hit all of the ! Blocks to hoard
the coins inside. If you run out
of coins, enter downtown for the
red coins and several other coin
rings. You shouldn't have too
much trouble getting all the
needed coins.

================================
 ~Course 12:Tall Tall Mountain~
================================
-------------------------
Star 1:Scale the Mountain
-------------------------
You need to reach the top of the
mountain. Head straight along
the path, ignoring any enemies
you come against and long jump
over and large gaps. Eventually
you will pass a clearing with a
Chuck-Ya and end up on a ledge
with a Ukiki and a Fly Guy. Get
on the rolling log nearby and
roll it all the way over to the
left side, then get on the ledge
there. Continue going up the
mountain, past a large gap near
a waterfall, until you reach the
top where the Star is waiting.

--------------------------------
Star 2:Mystery of the Monkey
Cage
--------------------------------
Like the previous Star, you need
to make your way up to the top
of the mountain once again. When
you finally arrive (the path
remains the same), you won't
find a Star but instead a Ukiki
running around the top section.
Grab Ukiki. It can be tough. Try
to corner it and do a running
dive for the best chances at
capturing the monkey. When it
asks to be let go, agree and it
will tell you to follow it to a
cage. Ukiki will drop the cage
and the Star will appear out of
it next to the waterfall. Drop
down and get it.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Scary 'Shrooms, Red Coins
--------------------------------
You may have noticed a large
field of mushrooms when you have
been going up the mountain. Head
to that field now. There are red
coins here. The other half of
the red coins are on the group
of ledges left of the Monty Mole
field.

Red Coin 1:On a mushroom Red
Coin 2:On a mushroom Red Coin
3:On a mushroom Red Coin 4:On a
mushroom Red Coin 5:Near the
bottom of the ledges Red Coin
6:Near the middle of the ledges
Red Coin 7:Near the top of the
ledges Red Coin 8:At the very
highest ledge, close to the
bowling ball area

The Star will appear on a
mushroom to the right of the
Monty Mole field. Long jump to
reach the Star. Be sure not to
fall off anywhere!

------------------------------
Star 4:Mysterious Mountainside
------------------------------
Continue up the mountain using
the usual path. You will
eventually pass a white cloud
who will blow your cap off if
you stand near him too long.
Near the cloud is a trail of
coins leading into a wall. Jump
into the wall they are pointing
to. You will appear on top of a
large slide. Start sliding down
it, collecting coins and extra
lives as you wish. Eventually
you will see arrows pointing to
the right as the path that way
turns wooden. Quickly move onto
it because the path you're on
will end and you will die if you
stay on it. On the wooden path,
continue down the slide. Stick
to the sides to avoid falling
into any of the numerous gaps
along the way. Drop into the
hole at the end to land on a
ledge on the mountainside with
the Star in it.

--------------------------------
Star 5:Blast to the Lonely
Mushroom
--------------------------------
Start climbing the mountain once
again. Once you reach the point
with the rolling log, get there
as Luigi and stand infront of
it. Do a backflip and start
manuvering yourself down to a
mushroom that is nowhere near
land. If you positioned yourself
correctly, you should land on
the mushroom and be able to
collect the Star there. You can
also run to the end of the log
and long jump down to this
mushroom, or actually use the
cannon like intended.

--------------------------------
Star 6:5 Secrets of the Mountain
--------------------------------
Get to the top of the mountain
in this Star as Mario. There is
a Mario Cap along the way if you
don't start out as him. When you
reach the top, you will find a
Red ! Block that will allow you
to fly around the level. There
are five coin rings surrounding
the summit of the mountain, and
in the center of each ring is a
secret coin. Collect all of them
to make the Star appear on the
summit. Keep getting Wing Cap's
to ensure your's doesn't run out
when flying over the abyss. Be
careful and be quick.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Breathtaking View from
the Bridge
--------------------------------
Get to the top of the mountain
one more time. Grab the Wario
Cap on the way up if you don't
already start as him. Near the
top of the mountain you will be
at the top of the waterfall.
There is a small ledge along the
wall near the waterfall that
leads into a small hole in it.
Walk along this thin ledge as
Wario and you will find yourself
inside the waterfall. Break the
black brick block to reveal the
Star.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Collecting 100 Coins can be a
bit tough on this course. Be
sure to never enter the
mountainside slide. It is
unlikely you can grab the Star
if it appears on the slide, for
obvious reasons, but the exit is
blocked by a cage so you can't
leave once you finish the slide.
There's plenty of enemies to
kill, and red coins to collect.
Don't forget the 45 coins that
are surrounding the summit of
the mountain. Use Mario to fly
into them and collect them. If
you nab every coin you can on
the mountain you shouldn't have
too much trouble.

================================
  ~Course 13:Tiny-Huge Island~
================================
-------------------------------
Star 1:Pluck the Pirhana Flower
-------------------------------
Start the level out in the small
painting so you are huge when
you start. Head forwards, past
the first island and onto the
second one. Ignore the Pirhana
Plant here and enter the pipe to
make yourself tiny. There are
five Pirhana Plants on the edges
of the now huge platform, and
you need to kill them all. Use
simple punches to dispose of all
of them. Don't forget that there
is one lurking behind the warp
pipe. The Star will appear once
all five are killed.

--------------------------------
Star 2:The Tip Top of the Huge
Island
--------------------------------
Start off once again in the left
painting, making you huge. Head
back to the platform with the
Pirhana Plant on it. Ignore the
pipe this time and fall onto a
lower ledge near the pipe. There
is a ! Switch here. Press it to
make some platforms appear. Jump
up to an above ledge using these
platforms where bowling balls
are falling. Continue right on
this ledge and enter the next
warp pipe you see. When you are
tiny, head north and jump onto
the two ledges. Dodge the Chuck-
Ya and move around him. There is
a small bridge attached to the
side of the mountain. Walk past
it, up the next hill and break
the ! Block at the summit to
reveal the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 3:Rematch with Koopa the
Quick
--------------------------------
Start off tiny for this Star.
Make your way through the hole
in the beginning, then swim
across the lake to the beach,
then across the next area of
water to solid land. Ignore the
cannon unless you have unlocked
it and long jump over the gap,
then jump into the abyss right
ahead. A gust of wind will
propel you over to the ledge
attatched to the mountain side.
Continue up the bridge, then
left over the next bridge. Don't
get blown off here. Jump up the
ledges and down the next hill.
Around the corner you will meet
Koopa the Quick again. The
finish line for this race is
just past that windy bridge.
Make sure to keep long jumping,
and ignore any damage that you
take. It just slows you down.
Near the warp pipe on the area
of land past the windy bridge is
the finish line. Koopa the Quick
will hand over the Star if you
beat him. He generally finishes
in about 23 seconds.

------------------------
Star 4:Klepto the Condor
------------------------
Klepto is holding another Star.
Start off huge and make your way
to the ! Switch used in the
previous Star. These will form
the same platforms. Make your
way this time to the end of
these platforms, leading to one
small platform in the middle of
nowhere. Klepto will
occasionally visit this spot.
When he does, jump into him to
make him release the Star. It
will appear just mere inches
from you.

--------------------------
Star 5:Wiggler's Red Coins
--------------------------
There is a hidden cavern that
holds the red coins for this
Star. Start off huge and hit the
! Switch on the island with the
Pirhana Plant. Climb up onto the
ledge with the bowling balls,
then enter the warp pipe up
ahead. Climb up the two ledges
as you're tiny, pass the Chuck-
Ya, and head to the end of the
wooden bridge. At the end, look
down. You should see a tree on
some land near a long and thin
wooden bridge. Aim for that.
When you can stand on flat
ground, walk across the bridge
and into the cavern. The eight
red coins are as follow:

Red Coin 1:On a platform infront
of you Red Coin 2:On another
platform Red Coin 3:On another
platform Red Coin 4:On another
platform Red Coin 5:On another
platform Red Coin 6:On another
platform Red Coin 7:Use a Double
Jump to reach this slightly
higher platform Red Coin 8:Use
Wall Kicks where the two pillars
are to reach the coin at the top

The Star will appear on the
ground near Red Coin 8.

--------------------------
Star 6:Make Wiggler Squirm
--------------------------
Start off huge again, and make
your way up to the warp pipe
near the top of the mountain as
usual. Don't go in it just yet.
Jump or backflip up to the very
top of the mountain, inside a
small pool of water. Do a Ground
Pound to get rid of the water.
Now enter a warp pipe to become
tiny, then get to the top pool
of the mountain. The water is
gone, so go inside the revealed
hole.

You will need to beat Wiggler
now. Jump on his head three
times to defeat him. He will get
faster each time you jump on
him. If you get hurt and need
more health, grab some of the
coins that are lying along the
edges of the room. Once you
defeat Wiggler, grab the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 7:Switch Star of the Island
--------------------------------
Make your way back to Wiggler's
red coin cavern. Be careful on
the wooden bridge. Walk slowly
to avoid falling off, forcing
you to repeat many steps. Once
you are inside the cavern, make
your way to the ledge with a red
coin and a Blue Coin Switch.
There is also a Switch for the
Star here. Press it and you will
see the Star appear on top of a
ledge not too far away. Long
jump across the short gap, Wall
Kick your way between the
pillars and easily claim the
Star.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Start off the course as your
tiny character. Ground Pounding
a Goomba when your are small
will net you a Blue Coin. Do
this for every Goomba that
wonders the course. There are
plenty of other enemies you can
normally defeat for coins too.
Run around some posts as well.
When you can't find anymore
coins, turn huge again and kill
any more enemies that show up.
Once you are finished with that,
enter the red coin cavern.
There's also a Blue Coin Switch
for an additional ten coins if
you need it. Remember that you
can leave the cavern if you want
to.

================================
  ~Course 14:Tick Tock Clock~
================================
------------------------
Star 1:Luigi in the Cage
------------------------
Enter the clock when the minute
hand is on the 3 for the easiest
time here. Use the only path you
can to make your way up and
around the clock. You will
eventually come to a pole with
an Amp circling it. Climb it,
then turn around at the top and
climb onto the moving platform.
Jump off of it onto the grated
ground. Grab a Luigi Cap if you
aren't already him, then get a
Power Flower. Don't move as you
fall down. Once you land, move
right and start working your way
down the clock as quickly as
possible. Once you reach the
cage with the Star inside, walk
through it and claim the Star.

-------------------------------
Star 2:The Pendulum Switch Star
-------------------------------
Start off with the minute hand
on the 12 to stop the clock
entirely. From the start, keep
heading up the clock until you
reach the pole with an Amp
circling it. Climb to the top,
but go to the left, not on the
moving platform. Head past the
Heave-Ho's. Near a Blue Coin
Switch and past some stationary
platforms you will find the
Switch that will activate the
Star. Hit the switch to make the
Star appear near some stationary
pendulums. Quickly run over
there and over the gaps,
avoiding falling to your death,
to reach the Star.

-----------------
Star 3:Get a Hand
-----------------
Start the course with the minute
hand on the 3. Make your way up
the clock, but not too far. Head
to a large, open area with
grated floor that has a ! Block
and a fire breather on it. Wait
on this platform for a moving
hand to come by. Jump onto the
hand and it will continue moving
around the clock. Don't fall off
and don't get shocked by the
Amp's. Eventually the hand will
pass infront of an opening in
the wall which contains a Star.

--------------------------
Star 4:Stomp on the Thwomp
--------------------------
Start the course with the minute
hand on the 3. Continue up the
clock as usual, up to the point
with the pole with an Amp
circling it. Climb to the top,
then jump onto the moving
platform. At the top of the
platform's motion you can jump
onto another platform. You may
need to use a backflip to reach
it. Continue jumping up the
moving parts, past some moving
bars and cages. Avoid falling
off the treadmills, then
continue along the winding path
to the top of the clock. Once at
the top, avoid the attacks of
the fire breather and wait for a
moving hand to come by. Jump
onto it and wait for it to pass
by a treadmill leading to a
Thwomp. Run down it, backflip
onto the top of the Thwomp, and
at the apex of its flight into
the air, jump off the Thwomp and
into the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 5:Timed Jump on Moving Bars
--------------------------------
Start off with the clock on 12
to make this Star easy. Climb up
the clock like you normally
would until you reach the pole
with an Amp circling it. At the
top, jump onto the stationary
platform, then jump onto the
grated platform. Grab the Wario
Cap from a Goomba if you aren't
already him, then look at the
three bars jutting from the
wall. They should be stationary
if you stopped the clock. Jump
on each of them to reach a black
brick block. Break it as Wario,
revealing a path to the Star.

------------------------------
Star 6:Stop Time for Red Coins
------------------------------
Enter the course with the minute
hand on 12. Turn around from
where you start to find a bunch
of stationary gears. The red
coins are among these gears.

Red Coin 1:At the first gear Red
Coin 2:Above the second gear Red
Coin 3:Above the third gear Red
Coin 4:Above the fourth gear Red
Coin 5:Above the fifth row of
gears Red Coin 6:Next to Red
Coin 5 Red Coin 7:Above the
sixth row of gears Red Coin
8:Above the final gears

The Star will appear on the
ground, below the first gear.

-----------------------------
Star 7:Tick Tock Silver Stars
-----------------------------
Enter the clock with the minute
hand on the 3. Just wait a
little while and you will notice
that all of the Silver Stars
fall to the bottom level. With a
little patience you can grab
them all. The Star will appear
rather high up in the clock.
Continue up the clock like you
normally would, collecting any
Silver Star that may be stuck if
necessary. Pass the pole with an
Amp circling it and continue to
the left. Head past the Heave-
Ho's and over a moving platform,
you should be able to find the
Star lying dead ahead.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Tick Tock Clock doesn't have too
many coins. Make sure the clock
is at least moving when you
enter the course. There are
plenty of ! Blocks you can hit
for many coins. There are few
enemies you can actually kill in
this course, so the blocks will
be your only method of
collecting coins. You can also
find some coins just lying
around. The red coins are almost
impossible to get when the clock
is in motion, so don't bother
trying.

================================
    ~Course 15:Rainbow Ride~
================================
--------------------------------
Star 1:Cruiser Crossing the
Rainbow
--------------------------------
Turn around from where you start
off to spot a pole in the
distance. Long jump over to the
pole, then climb it to the top.
Jump onto the moving platforms
and pass by them without falling
off. On the next, stationary
platform, walk onto the carpet.
It will begin moving you on its
rainbow pathway. Jump over any
platforms that get in your way
until you reach a point where
the path splits. Choose the left
carpet. Ride that carpet,
jumping over any other platforms
that get in your way. You will
eventually reach a plank that
extends onto the ship. Get the
Wario Cap here and get a Power
Flower to turn metal. Ignoring
the winds, get onto the bow of
the ship and grab the Star.

-------------------------------
Star 2:The Big House in the Sky
-------------------------------
Like before, long jump to the
pole in the distance, climb up
and over the next platforms. Get
onto the carpet and ride it to
where the path splits. This time
around, head onto the right
carpet. The carpet will pass
through some glass, but you
can't. You need to backflip on
top of them and then jump back
onto the carpet. You have to do
this twice. You will then enter
the big house. You can choose to
continue on the carpet, but that
path is longer and harder. Jump
off and collect the Mario Cap.
Get a Power Flower and float
through the hole in the ceiling.
On the roof, get the Star.

------------------------------
Star 3:Coins Amassed in a Maze
------------------------------
Long jump to the pole, climb to
the top and get onto the moving
platforms. Instead of going
straight as usual, head to the
left and towards a giant maze.
It isn't so bad. The eight red
coins are hidden in this maze.

Red Coin 1:On the left ledge at
the bottom of the maze. Red Coin
2:The top-left corner of the
maze Red Coin 3:Near a fire-
breather Red Coin 4:Top-right
corner of the maze Red Coin
5:Just below Red Coin 4 Red Coin
6:Middle level of the maze Red
Coin 7:Somewhere near Red Coin 6
Red Coin 8:Near the top-right
corner is an opening onto an
outside ledge with the Red Coin
on it

The Star will appear near the
entrance to the maze.

-----------------------------
Star 4:Swingin' in the Breeze
-----------------------------
Long jump to the pole again.
Don't climb up it this time.
Instead, head left and onto a
tilting platform. Use it to
reach a higher ledge. There is a
swinging platform ahead. Ride it
to the other side. Pass through
the next area with a bunch of
tilting platforms and falling
donut platforms. Eventually you
will reach a small brown hill
with a Goomba on it. Head up
this hill to find another
swinging platform. Ride this one
to the other side, avoiding
getting burned by the fire
breather, then grab the Star.

------------------------
Star 5:Tricky Triangles!
------------------------
Long jump back to the pole. Once
again, head left and over the
tilting platform and over the
swinging platform. Head across
the next few titling platforms
and donut platforms to reach the
brown hill again. Pass it to the
right and jump over the next few
platforms. You will soon come to
a large group of triangles. Hit
the ! Switch to make the
triangles flip over, allowing
you to jump on them and reach
the top platform. They won't
stay flipped for long, however.
Once at the top, grab the Star.

--------------------------------
Star 6:Somewhere Over the
Rainbow
--------------------------------
You need to head back to the
cruiser. Before you do so, you
must activate the cannon on it.
Head back to the Red Coin maze
via the shortcut. Once you reach
the maze, don't enter it an head
to the far left edge. Wall Kick
as Mario between the two walls
to reach the top of the maze.
Talk to the Bob-omb Buddy to
open the cannon on the cruiser.
Now, head back to the moving
platforms and get on the carpet.
Take the left path when the path
splits. Once you reach the
cruiser after making sure not to
fall off, get on the stern of
the ship and drop into the
cannon. Look for the large
rainbow ring near where the
cannon aims at default. Aim for
the pole on island. Fire the
cannon. If you grabbed onto the
pole, jump off of it, pass the
Chuck-Ya, and hit the ! Block to
reveal the Star.

-------------------------------
Star 7:Switch Star of the Manor
-------------------------------
You need to head back to the big
house. Long jump to the pole and
follow the path back to the
carpet. When the path splits,
take the right path. Backflip
over the two large glass pieces
until you are inside of the
house. Jump off of the carpet
and pick up a Mario Cap. Step
onto the balcony outside and
down onto a small pathway. The
Star Switch is at the end. Once
you press it, run back quickly
and get a Power Flower. Head
through the roof and grab the
Star before time runs out.

--------------
100 Coins Star
--------------
Getting 100 Coins is pretty
tricky. There is a Blue Coin
Switch to the left of the Red
Coin Maze. You must get those
coins, or this Star will be
total hell. Get the Red Coins,
kill the Lakitus and Bob-ombs in
the area, and head to the big
house last. There's twenty coins
inside. You also can just east
the Spinies as Yoshi that the
Lakitus throw at you, then hit a
wall with them to turn them into
coins. It's tedious, but you can
safely get 100 coins that way.

================================
     ~Castle Secret Stars~
================================
--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #1:The
Princess's Secret Slide
--------------------------------
Enter the One Star Door at the
top right corner of the castle
lobby. Inside this room, jump
into the picture of Princess
Peach to the right. You will be
at the top of a large slide. It
is a pretty simple ride down.
Once you reach the end of the
slide, hit the ! Block to reveal
the Star. Falling off doesn't
make you lose a life. You will
just reappear in the castle
lobby.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #2:Princess's
Secret Slide-Race to the Finish!
--------------------------------
Head back through the previous
One Star Door and enter the
Princess's Secret Slide again.
You need to score 21.0 seconds
or better in order to claim
another Star. When the slide
gets flat for a few seconds, you
can jump off the left ledge and
land on a bit of the slide near
the end of it as a huge
shortcut, or you can just hug
the inside walls and finish it
the normal way. The Star will
appear out of the finish line if
you are successful.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #3:Sunshine
Isles
--------------------------------
Enter the One Star Door at the
top right corner of the castle
lobby. Head straight through and
into the next room. Look to the
left of the Toad to find a
picture of an island. Jump into
it. You need to collect the five
Silver Stars here. Head straight
to the next island to pick up
the first Star. Wait around here
to find Klepto the Vulture. He
circles around the area and
holds another Silver Star. Jump
into him to make him drop it.
Climb up the central island,
then get to the top of the tree
to find the third Silver Star.
Fall off the island and head to
the backside of it. In a small
nook is the fourth Silver Star.
Finally, bouncing on an island
somewhat near where you started
is the fifth Silver Star. Once
you have them all, head back to
the island you started on to
recieve the real Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #4:The Secret
Aquarium
--------------------------------
Enter the Three Star Door on the
right wall of the castle lobby.
Turn around when you enter the
room, then enter the hole in the
wall to the left. You will enter
the secret aquarium. You can
collect the eight red coins here
for a Star.

Red Coin 1:The center of a coin
ring in a top corner of the room
Red Coin 2:The center of a coin
ring in a top corner of the room
Red Coin 3:The center of a coin
ring in a top corner of the room
Red Coin 4:The center of a coin
ring in a top corner of the room
Red Coin 5:In a bottom corner of
the room Red Coin 6:In a bottom
corner of the room Red Coin 7:In
a bottom corner of the room Red
Coin 8:In a bottom corner of the
room

Once you have all of the red
coins, the Star will appear at
the center of the bottom area of
the room. You need to collect
coins to keep your energy meter
filled at all times!

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #5:8 Red
Coins in Goomboss's Area
--------------------------------
Enter the One Star Door at the
top right corner of the castle
lobby. Head straight through to
the next room. Pass the Toad and
enter the Eight Star Door. Jump
into the Mario painting. 8 Red
Coins are hidden in Goomboss's
Area. Collect them all for a
Star.

Red Coin 1:Head down the log
where you start and look left.
Get onto the moving platforms to
reach an island floating above
the abyss. Collect the Wario Cap
and punch the block for the Red
Coin Red Coin 2:Back on solid
land, continue along the path to
find a wire grating above the
poisonous gas, with the Red Coin
on it Red Coin 3:Climb the large
pole to the top of the level.
The Red Coin is at the end of a
branch up here Red Coin 4:Over a
series of platforms moving up
and down, behind a Pirhana Plant
at the end Red Coin 5:Near the
center of the level Red Coin
6:Near the right corner of the
level on a high ledge Red Coin
7:Use a Power Flower as Mario to
reach this at the top of the
large tree Red Coin 8:Use a
Power Flower as Luigi to reach
this in the middle of the large
tree.

The Star will appear near the
center of the level.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #6:Wall Kick
Switch Star in Goomboss's Area
--------------------------------
Enter Goomboss's Area again via
the Mario painting in the Eight
Star Room. Head down the log and
go to the right, up a hill and
over some diamond shaped-tilting
platforms. You will eventually
pass a Star Switch. Hit this as
Mario and run down to the end of
the path. Most of the wall here
is caged. Quickly Wall Jump up
to the top in order to claim
your Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #7:Red Coins
in the Courtyard
--------------------------------
Head to the castle's courtyard
as if you were going to Big
Boo's Haunt. You should notice
that some of the Boo's have red
coins.

Red Coin 1:In a Boo left of the
entrance Red Coin 2:In a Boo
left of the entrance Red Coin
3:In a Boo straight of the
entrance Red Coin 4:In a Boo
straight of the entrance Red
Coin 5:In a Boo straight of the
entrance Red Coin 6:In a Boo
right of the entrance Red Coin
7:In a Boo right of the entrance
Red Coin 8:In a Boo right of the
entrance

The Star will appear behind the
Star statue. Despite what
anybody may say, this Star never
becomes impossible to obtain
from some glitch.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #8:Silver
Stars in the Battle Fort
--------------------------------
Head to the castle's courtyard
as any character other than
Yoshi. In the top right corner
of the courtyard are several
bricks. Punch them until a hole
is revealed beneath one of them.
Enter it to be in the Battle
Fort. You need to collect the
Silver Stars here. Jump onto the
pole ahead of you and get the
Silver Star at the top. Head to
the right corner of the level
and punch the blocks here until
a Silver Star is found. Kill a
nearby Goomba for the third
Silver Star. Now head to one of
the bottom corners of the level.
A Silver Star is bouncing freely
here. In the last corner of this
level is yet another Goomba who
will hand over the Silver Star
once killed. Once you have all
five, the Star will appear on
top of the grated area of the
level. Climb a pole to reach it.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #9:8 Red
Coins Hidden in Bowser in the
Dark World
--------------------------------
Head through the Big Star Door
in the castle lobby to end up at
Bowser in the Dark World. You
need to collect the red coins
here.

Red Coin 1:Hit the ! Switch near
the fire-breathing statue and
run back to where you start.
Wooden platform have appears,
allowing access to the coin Red
Coin 2:Hit the ! Switch near the
fire-breathing statue to make
wooden platforms appear infront
of the statue. Grab the Red Coin
Red Coin 3:Behind one of the
crystals an Amp is circling Red
Coin 4:There is a platform with
a yellow platform retracting in
and out of it. The Red Coin is
attatched to it Red Coin 5:Stand
on the first pair of circling
diamond-shaped platforms to be
brought into this Red Coin Red
Coin 6:On the ledge with a
Goomba on it and near some
tilting platforms, turn around
and head down a thin wooden
bridge to find the Red Coin on a
lone platform Red Coin 7:On a
small ledge near the tilting
platform. You may need to hug
the wall for this Red Coin
8:From the platform the ! Switch
and stairs are located, Long
Jump to the left. Follow the
platforms to the end to reach
the Red Coin

The Star will appear behind the
pipe leading to Bowser.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #10:8 Red
Coins in the Tower of the Wing
Cap
--------------------------------
When you have at least 14 Stars,
light will be shining from the
top of the lobby. Stand in the
sun picture as Mario and stare
at the light's source from the
shoulder camera. Collect the Red
Coin while flying.

Red Coin 1:Fly straight ahead at
the start to run into these
coins Red Coin 2:Next to Red
Coin 1 Red Coin 3:Fly left from
the previous coins and follow
the trail of yellow coins into
the next to Red Coins Red Coin
4:Next to Red Coin 3 Red Coin
5:Keep following the yellow coin
trail into these coins Red Coin
6:Next to Red Coin 5 Red Coin
7:Follow the trail even lower to
run into the final Red Coins Red
Coin 8:Next to Red Coin 7

The Star will appear at the top
of the central tower.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #11:Red Coins
Hidden in the Maze of King Boo
Battle
--------------------------------
To enter the King Boo Battle
area, reach the third floor of
Big Boo's Haunt. Enter the Luigi
painting in plain sight. Once
you enter, you can collect the
eight red coins for a Secret
Star.

Red Coin 1:By one of the fake
doors in the first room Red Coin
2:By one of the fake doors in
the second room Red Coin 3:By
the real door in the second room
Red Coin 4:By the real door in
the third room Red Coin 5:In the
top corner of the third room
(Use Balloon Mario to reach it)
Red Coin 6:By one of the doors
in the fourth room Red Coin 7:By
one of the doors in the fourth
room Red Coin 8:Inside the black
brick block in the fifth room

The Star will appear right next
to Red Coin 8.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #12:Luigi's
Quick Sprint in the King Boo
Battle Area
--------------------------------
Enter the King Boo Battle area
as Luigi. Head into the third
room and get a Power Flower to
turn invisible. Then, quickly
make your way into the fourth
and then final room. Once in the
final room, run across the
bridge quickly before the Power
Flower runs out. At the end you
should see a picture of a Boo
hiding in fear. When invisible,
you can jump through this to
find a Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #13:8 Red
Coins Behind the Waterfall
--------------------------------
Head to the underground cavern
in Hazy Maze Cave. Get on top of
Dorrie's back in direct him to a
ledge with double doors on it.
Jump onto the ledge, head
through the door, and jump into
the silvery liquid to be in a
secret area where you can
collect Red Coins.

Red Coin 1:In a small nook in
the wall, next to a 1-Up Red
Coin 2:In a small nook in the
wall, next to a 1-Up Red Coin
3:On the final platform near the
waterfall Red Coin 4:On the
final platform near the
waterfall Red Coin 5:Become
Metal Wario with a Power Flower
and fall into the water near the
final platform. A Red Coin can
be found here Red Coin
6:Underwater around the final
platform Red Coin 7:Underwater
around the final platform Red
Coin 8:Underwater around the
final platform

The Star will appear on the
final platform, near where most
of the Red Coins were.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #14:Mario's
Balloon Trip Behind the
Waterfall
--------------------------------
Head to the underground cavern
in Hazy Maze Cave. Get on top of
Dorrie's back in direct him to a
ledge with double doors on it.
Jump onto the ledge, head
through the door, and jump into
the silvery liquid to be in a
secret area where you can get
another Secret Star. Make your
way to the final platform and
become Mario if you aren't
already him. On the final
platform, grab a Power Flower
and float up high in the room.
Past a group of coins in the
shape of an arrow you can float
into a Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #15:8 Red
Coins on Moving Platforms Under
the Moat
--------------------------------
Drain the moat, then become
Wario. You can break a black
brick block down here and drop
into the revealed hole. You can
collect the eight Red Coins
hidden in this stage.

Red Coin 1:On a ledge on the
beginning hill Red Coin 2:On a
ledge further down the hill Red
Coin 3:On a ledge near the
bottom of the hill Red Coin 4:On
a ledge next to Red Coin 3's
ledge Red Coin 5:Near the bottom
of the first moving platform's
rotation Red Coin 6:At the top
of the second moving platform's
rotation Red Coin 7:At the end
of a tilting platform, near the
last set of moving platforms Red
Coin 8:On a ledge at the end of
the level, where the ? Blue
Switch used to be in the
original game

The Star will appear in a caged
up area. Use Luigi and a Power
Flower to easily reach it.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #16:Mario's
Balloon Trip Star Under the Moat
--------------------------------
Use Wario to break the black
brick block in the moat and
enter the secret level there.
Get to the bottom of the large
hill, then grab the Mario Cap.
Get the Power Flower from the
nearby Red ! Block and start
floating ahead into the abyss.
Make your way over to a large
platform against the wall in the
distance. Hit the Star Switch to
make the Star appear at the top
of the structure. You need to
perform Wall Kicks up to the top
of these platforms. It isn't too
difficult. You can also use
Balloon Mario to reach the top,
but it takes longer and the Star
may disappear as you are trying
this.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #17:Switch
Star; Stairway Madness in the
Dark World
--------------------------------
Head through the Big Star Door
in the castle's lobby. Enter
Bowser in the Dark World. Get to
the very end of the level.
Behind the pipe that leads to
Bowser you can find a Star
Switch. Activate it to make a
Star appear not too far away.
Head down the stairs or ramp,
depending on how fast you are.
Long Jump to the platforms a
small distance away, then keep
Long Jumping quickly until you
reach the platform with the
Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #18:A Kind
Power Star Gift From Toad
--------------------------------
Head into the basement of the
castle and into the room with
the entrance to Hazy Maze Cave.
A Toad is in the corner of this
room. Talk to him to recieve a
Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #19:8 Red
Coins Within the Fire Sea
--------------------------------
Head through the Big Star Door
in the basement to end up at
Bowser in the Fire Sea, where
you can collect some red coins.

Red Coin 1:On the platform with
the Bullies, take the yellow
grating path north to reach this
coin Red Coin 2:On top of the
tilting platform near the pole
Red Coin 3:In the corner of the
caged box at the top of the pole
Red Coin 4:In the caged room is
an elevator. Get on the elevator
then step off quickly. The hole
the elevator was covering
reveals a Red Coin Red Coin 5:At
the top of the elevator's path
you can find a pyramidal shaped
structure. Get onto the flat top
of it and follow the yellow path
to a Red Coin Red Coin 6:On the
structure that is rising up and
down with yellow grated
platforms connecting each grey
platform, if you stay under a
black shadow long enough you
will find this Red Coin Red Coin
7:Infront of one of the fire-
breathing statues in the area
with many platforms sinking and
rising out of the lava Red Coin
8:Near one of the poles dipping
into the lava and rising out

The Star will appear on top of a
tower near Red Coin 8. Use Wall
Kicks to reach it.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #20:Long Jump
and Fall Switch Star in the Fire
Sea
--------------------------------
Remember where the Star appeared
in the Castle Secret Star where
you got the Red Coins in the
Fire Sea (the previous Star)?
Head back up there. You should
find a Star Switch here. The
Star will appear at the opposite
end of the large lava pool where
you are standing. Long Jump from
this high ledge down to the lava
pool. If you are lucky, you will
land on a blue platform safely.
If not, you will land in the
lava. Make sure you do land on a
blue platform either way so you
don't die from the lava. Quickly
make your way to the other end
and jump into the Star if it
hasn't disappered yet.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #21:A
Suspicious Mirrored Door's
Secret
--------------------------------
Head to the second floor of the
castle as Luigi. Enter the
mirror room, the one with the
entrance to Snowman's Land. Grab
a Power Flower from one of the
pedistals and pass through the
mirror. Then, enter the door on
the other side (opposite the
door you originally came
through). You will enter a room
with nothing in it but a Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #22:8 Red
Coins Hidden in Chief Chilly's
Area
--------------------------------
Once again, enter the mirror
room on the second floor as
Luigi. Get a Power Flower and go
through the mirror. Head through
the Wario painting this time.
Collect the eight Red Coins in
the level.

Red Coin 1:You will pass it as
you move over a moving platform
Red Coin 2:When you jump off a
ledge just past Red Coin 1 you
will be flown into the air from
a gust of wind and into a group
of coins, the center of which is
a Red Coin Red Coin 3:In the
middle of the pool when you land
from the previous jump Red Coin
4:Just past Red Coin 3, near
some Bullies Red Coin 5:In the
moving ice block platforming
area Red Coin 6:In the moving
ice block platforming area Red
Coin 7:Use Luigi and get a Power
Flower to pass through some
metal bars and get a Red Coin
Red Coin 8:Use Mario and get a
Power Flower so you can float to
a far away platform with the
final Red Coin

The Star will appear somewhere
near Red Coin 7.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #23:Blown
Away Secret Star in Chief
Chilly's Area
--------------------------------
Head back into Chief Chilly's
Area by using the normal means.
Get to an area of the level just
past the first Red Coin. Get the
Wario Cap, then hit the Red !
Block to turn metal. Head to the
left instead of the right like
you normally would, and follow
the winding, short path. The
winds won't affect you here
because you are metal. Once at
the end of the path, you can hit
the black brick block for this
Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #24:Another
Kind Gift From a Nearby Toad
--------------------------------
Head to the second floor of the
castle. Near the Tall Tall
Mountain painting you will find
a Toad. Talk to him and he will
hand over another Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #25:Another
Gift? Where Does Toad Get These
Stars...
--------------------------------
Head to the third floor of the
castle. Near the entrance to
Tick Tock Clock you will find
yet another Toad who, when
talked to, will hand over yet
another Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #26:Red Coins
Over the Rainbow
--------------------------------
Head to the third floor of the
castle and enter the left nook
in the wall, opposite the
entrance to Rainbow Ride. Drop
into the hole for a difficult
Red Coin challenge. You need the
Wing Cap and need to unlock the
cannons here. The Bob-omb Buddy
is found on the lowest possible
platform.

Red Coin 1:Next to where you
start Red Coin 2:On a cloud near
the platform with a cannon Red
Coin 3:On top of the highest
cloud in the level Red Coin
4:Next to Red Coin 3 Red Coin
5:Grab the poles below the cloud
holding the previous two Red
Coins and drop down onto a cloud
with this next Red Coin Red Coin
6:On a cloud somewhere in the
level Red Coin 7:On a cloud
somewhere in the level Red Coin
8:On a cloud somewhere in the
level

The Star will appear next to
where you started. Have fun
getting back there.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #27:Secret
Brick Somewhere Over the Rainbow
--------------------------------
Head back into the previously
mentioned secret level. Fly down
to the lowest platform with a
cannon. Grab the Wario Cap here
and jump into the cannon. Aim a
little left towards a cloud with
a tree on top of it. Fire at the
tree. Once you grab it, drop
down and break open the black
brick block to reveal another
Star.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #28:8 Red
Coins Floating High in Bowser in
the Sky
--------------------------------
Enter Bowser in the Sky as Mario
once you have collected 80
Stars. There are eight
challenging Red Coins to find.

Red Coin 1:Near the beginning
you will find a grey and red
box. Push it left so you can
jump to a Red Coin Red Coin
2:You will find this coin near a
Pirhana Plant, hard to miss Red
Coin 3:When you come to four
rotating platforms, drop to the
platform below it. Turn the
camera around where you fall
onto to find the Red Coin on a
tiny platform at the side Red
Coin 4:When the path turns near
some fire-breathing statues you
will find a Red Coin dangling
high in the air Red Coin 5:While
riding a large platform with an
arrow on it, this Red Coin is on
a tilted block. Get it without
getting yourself killed Red Coin
6:This Red Coin is behind a
stone formation an Amp is
circling around just past Red
Coin 5 Red Coin 7:At the top of
a yellow pole, almost impossible
to miss Red Coin 8:Get to the
pipe leading to Bowser. Below
the pipe is a ledge. Manuver the
camera to find it. Below the
stairs leading to the pipe you
will find the final Red Coin

The Star will appear behind the
pipe leading to Bowser.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #29:Mario's
Switch Star in Bowser in the Sky
--------------------------------
Back at Bowser in the Sky, head
to the platform where you found
Red Coin 3 in the previous
Secret Star. There is a Switch
Star near this location.
Activating it will create a Star
to appear a short distance away
on the same platform. Use many
Long Jumps in order to reach the
Star quickly. Do so without
falling off due to carelessness.

--------------------------------
Castle Secret Star #30:Mystery
Door in the Character Room
--------------------------------
There is a Star behind the White
Door in the Character Room. To
get the Key to open the door,
you need to collect eight shiny
rabbits. Any rabbit that you
have already caught will have a
chance of appearing shiny when
you enter the room it is in.
This is best done with Yoshi who
has six rabbits outside of the
castle. Once you collect the
eight rabbit, he will hand over
the Key to the White Door, which
you can enter and claim a Castle
Secret Star for.

--------------------------------
        ~VII.Mini-Games~
--------------------------------
Tired of playing the adventure
mode of the game, sick of
multiplayer and just want a way
to relax? Head to the Rec Room.
Any mini-games that you have
unlocked in the adventure mode
is available for play here in
this room. Each character has
nine games to collect. You can
collect the mini- games by
catching rabbits with each
character. Each rabbit will
unlock a new mini-game for the
character that caught it.
However, the rabbits appear in
different locations for each
character. Each character has
their own theme of mini-games
(Skill, luck, etc.).

Most mini-games keep track of
your score. Either you will gain
actual points, or for each time
you get a victory you get a
Star. When you get a game over,
the record screen for that mini-
game will appear. Several games
do not have high scores and are
just for fun. All of the mini-
games require use of the touch
screen, so whip that stylus out.

==========================
~VII A.Yoshi's Mini-games~
==========================
Yoshi's mini-games are basically
a variety pack. They aren't too
terribly difficult, but most of
them aren't the most fun games
ever. Most of Yoshi's games do
include a high score system. Get
ready for a mixed bag of mini-
games.

=========
~Wanted!~
=========
In this mini-game, your
objective is to find the hidden
character in the level. You are
shown a wanted poster on the top
screen with the character's face
you need to find. The bottom
screen will be revealed, and you
need to find the face. Sound
easy? It gets difficult quite
quickly. In later levels you
will have multiples of the faces
you don't need to find. Also,
you have a time limit. If you
touch the wrong face, you will
lose 10 seconds. If you pick the
correct face, you earn five
seconds. As long as you avoid
missing the wanted character and
find the same character quickly,
you should be able to rack up
time quickly. You can have 50
seconds maximum.

As the levels progress, a ton of
heads will appear, and
eventually they will start
moving. The levels will
eventually repeat in similarity,
just the character that is
wanted will differ. Luigi is the
hardest one to find due to his
similarities to both Mario and
Yoshi. Hit face looks like
Mario's and he has a green cap,
much like Yoshi has a green
head. Take a little time on
these levels because Luigi can
be difficult to find. The rest
of the characters should be
fairly obvious to spot. The game
ends if the timer even hits
zero.

==============
~Loves me...?~
==============
In this mini-game you don't
compete for a score. Instead,
you just pluck off all of the
petals of the flower until you
get either the "Loves me" or
"Loves me not" reading. If you
get three of the same reading
into a row, then it will say
"Really loves me!" or "Really
loves me...not!".

You can also style this game
much like how New Super Mario
Bros. did it, Pearls Before
Swine style. Get a couple of
friends together and share the
same DS with this mini-game.
Take turns plucking off either
one, two, or three petals. If
the last petal plucked results
in a "Loves me" reading, the
player who picked it wins that
round. If the player gets a
"Loves me not" reading when
picking the last petal, the lose
the round. You can keep
yourselves entertained for a
while doing this.

===================
~Hide and Boo Seek~
===================
In this simple mini-game, you
will be shown the lobby of Big
Boo's Haunt. Boo's will start
floating around the screen, then
a Boo on the top screen will cut
the lights. It is your objective
to use the stylus to scrub off
the darkness and find all of the
Boo's in the level. They are
found when an exclaimation point
appears above them. However, you
only have three seconds to
accomplish this task. As the
levels get higher, the more
Boo's that will appear on the
bottom screen and the faster
they will move.

You can use multiple stylus's if
you wish, or your thumb/finger
to cover a greater radius. You
could always pick up a couple
friends to help rub the screen
at the same time. Or, you can
just rub furiously yourself.
Don't blame me if you badly
scratch your touch screen with
this game! One failed level and
the game is over.

==============
~Puzzle Panel~
==============
In this puzzling mini-game, you
need to flip the tiles on the
touch screen to match those on
the top screen. You will be told
how many moves you need to make
to complete the level. The
puzzle on the touch screen
contains several symbols in a
four by four formation, a six by
six formation, or an eight by
eight formation, depending on
how far you are in the game.

The puzzle consists of white
mushroom tiles, and brown
feather tiles. When you tap a
tile, that tile and every tile
touching it (left, right, up,
down, and the corners) will be
flipped. Mushrooms become
feathers and vice versa. You
need to do this to match the
puzzle on the top of the screen.
On most levels you only have to
make one move to clear the
puzzle. Soon enough, you will
need two moves, and the puzzles
get larger. I think eventually
you will need to use three moves
but I've never gotten to that
point. You have three chances at
each puzzle. If you press the
wrong tile(s), you lose a life.
Lose all three and the game is
over. Your lives are restored
after each puzzle is completed.

==========
~Boom Box~
==========
In this mini-game, you will be
shown a group of chests. Tap a
chest to hear a certain sound
effect played in the main game.
You need to match up the sound
effects in the chests. If you
don't make a match, you will
lose a life. Lose all three and
the game is over. As you
progress in this game, more
chests will appear on the screen
at a time. Worse yet, the sound
effects will sound very similar
to eachother but still differ
slightly. For instance, one
group of chests may contain only
sound effects that Yoshi makes.
Many sounds he makes sound
alike, so be sure to listen for
subtle details that you can
distinguish a certain sound
effect by. Clear as many levels
as you can!

=================
~Tox Box Shuffle~
=================
In this confusing mini-game, you
will be on a screen with three
flipped up Tox Boxes. A Yoshi
will be then trapped in one of
them, and the Tox Boxes will
shuffle around the screen. When
they stop, you need to tap the
Tox Box with the Yoshi in it. It
is pretty easy at first, but
soon enough a second, blue Yoshi
will be added to the mix and the
question at the end may ask you
to choose where the blue Yoshi
is hidden and not the green
Yoshi. Also, as you progress on
this game the Tox Boxes will
move faster and faster, and
sometimes stop mid-shuffle and
go back to their original spots.
Sometimes it may be just a
matter of guessing. You get two
lives on each level. They will
be restores if you lose any. If
you lose both on the same level,
it's game over.

================
~Which Wiggler?~
================
In this tricky mini-game, you
will be shown a Wiggler on the
top screen. Then several
Wiggler's will appear on the
touch screen. You need to choose
the one that has the same
spotted patterns as the one on
the top screen. If you touch the
correct one, you get five
seconds added to the clock. If
you touch a wrong Wiggler, you
get ten seconds deducted from
the clock, and all the Wiggler's
turn red for several seconds
making it hard to make an
accurate decision. The game will
go on indefinitely if you keep
clearing levels. As the game
progresses, more Wiggler's
appear on the bottom screen and
they will be moving in erratic
directions, making finding the
right one all the harder. You
can get the timer up to a
maximum of 50 seconds. If it
ever hits zero, then it's game
over.

===========
~Mix-a-Mug~
===========
In this timing mini-game, Toad
will present to you one of the
character's faces. Then, three
slides will start moving side to
side on the touch screen. They
are in three rows. The top row
is the eyes for the characters,
the middle row is the face for
the characters, and the bottom
row is the mouth for the
characters. You need to stop the
rows by tapping them so from top
to bottom the entire portrait of
the character Toad asked you to
assemble is showing.

The top row moves a decent
speed, the middle row moves the
slowest, and the bottom row
moves the fastest. You start
with 30 coins. If you get one
right, you get 6 coins. If you
fail, you lose 11 coins. If you
ever run out of coins, then the
game is over.

==============
~Puzzle Panic~
==============
In this trickier version of an
older mini-game, you will back
on the Puzzle Panel board, but
the board for every level will
always be eight by eight sized.
However, the number of moves for
each level remains the same and
you get three chances per level.
When you are asked to make two
or three moves, you need to be
very careful and start planning
out your moves accurately.
Because the puzzle is so large,
it can be fairly difficult to
finish later levels easily. Just
be sure to take your time
because there is no time limit
in this mini-game. Get a few
friends together if you want and
help eachother get as far as
possible in the game. More input
may lead to you getting further,
or screwing up sooner. Depends
on your friends!

========================
VII B.Mario's Mini-games
========================
Mario's mini-games are quite
entertaining, and all have you
either going for a high score or
seeing how many levels in the
game you can beat. They get
difficult pretty quickly, and
even just blinking can result in
you failing several of these
mini-games. They are all action-
styled games, so get ready to
tap and drag as fast as you can.
You'll be doing it quite often
in the following games.

==============
~Mario Slides~
==============
In this mini-game you will start
with a Mario head at the top of
the top screen. If will fall
down the lines and switch to a
different line if a comes across
a horizontal line. You need to
direct Mario over to the Star.
If he touches a Pirhana Plant,
the game is over. On the touch
screen you need to draw lines to
direct Mario to the Star. You
clear the level this way. Every
time you clear five levels all
of the lines are erased and the
difficulty increases. In later
levels you will have more lines
on the top screen, more Mario
heads coming down, and more
Stars at the bottom. Even when
there are three Stars at the
bottom, if you aren't careful,
one of the Mario heads will
wander into the Pirhana Plant.
If you want, hold down the
yellow arrow buttons on the side
of the touch screen to make the
Mario's fall down faster. This
is useful when you don't feel
like waiting for them when you
know that they are heading
towards a Star.

===================
~Bounce and Pounce~
===================
In this free falling mini-game,
three Mario's will be thrown
onto the screen. If you tap them
when they are on the touch
screen, they will jump up
higher. You need to have them
land on all of the Fly Guy's
within the level to clear it.
It's far harder than it looks.
You can have the Mario's fall
off the bottom of the touch
screen three times. If you lose
a Mario, another one will
replace it right away. If you
lose three Mario's, the game is
over.

As you progress through the
levels, the Fly Guy's get
cunning and start to move form
side to side. Eventually the get
smaller, too. This game gets
quite difficult pretty fast, and
it doesn't help that in later
levels a fourth Mario will be
thrown into the mix.

=================
~Sort or 'Splode~
=================
In this quick thinking mini-
game, you need to sort the
oncoming barrage of Bob-ombs
that enter the room you are in.
They will start coming in one at
a time from the upper door. You
need to drag pink Bob-ombs to
the pink mat on the left, and
black Bob-ombs to the black mat
on the right. Not too far into
the game you will get two Bob-
ombs coming out of the top door.
Then, the bottom door opens and
two come from there after two
come from the top door. Then,
two Bob-ombs appear from both
doors at the same time. This
ultimately leads to mass chaos.

When a Bob-omb is placed in its
respective colored box, it is
defused. If a Bob-omb is roaming
the field for too long, it will
explode and the game is over. If
you put the wrong colored Bob-
omb in a box (pink in the black
area and vice versa), not only
is the game over but all the
Bob-ombs in that box explode and
won't count towards your final
score. When a box reaches its
capcity, the game stops and
tallies the total in that box
thus far, which is always
fourty. The box remains empty
and the game continues as the 40
points are permanently added to
your score. This is good because
if you have 39 in that box and
put they wrong colored Bob-omb
in it, all 39 would explode and
wouldn't count to your final
total. When the game is over,
and remaining Bob-ombs in their
boxes will be totaled up and
added to your final score. Quite
an addicting mini-game.

=================
~Trampoline Time~
=================
In this quick jumping mini-game,
Mario's will jump from a ledge
at the top left of the top
screen. They will fall down and
you need to draw a line on the
touch screen. This forms a
trampoline. You need to bounce
the Mario's into the open holes
either on the top of the
building or the bottom of it,
depending on which door is open.
The smaller the trampoline and
the closer to the center the
Mario is when hitting it, the
higher he will jump. A
trampoline is drawn at the
bottom of the screen before the
game starts. This can be hit
three times before disappearing,
so think of it as your only
lifeline. When that disappears,
when three Mario's fall off the
screen it is game over. For
every 10 Mario's that enter the
door, the building is raised a
little. I don't know what this
affects. You can only have three
trampolines onscreen at a time
so beware. They disappear after
about 10-15 seconds of not being
used. As time passes, more and
more Mario's will come down at
once. The game can be quite
hectic.

===============
~Shuffle Shell~
===============
In this accurate mini-game, you
will have a paddle on the bottom
screen and a target on the top
screen. You need to hit the
shells onto the target to earn
points. This is very similar to
shuffleboard. The outside ring
is worth 100 points, the middle
ring is worth 300 points, and
the center of the target is 1000
points. You only have five
shells to hit, so make them
count. Remember that the shells
don't disappear on the top
screen, so even if you land one
on the center you can still hit
that shell and knock it off.
Getting a high score will take a
lot of precision and a little
luck.

====================
~Bounce and Trounce~
====================
In this mad tapping mini-game
similar to Bounce and Pounce,
you need to tap the Mario's on
the screen to make them jump and
land on the Fly Guy's to kill
them. The only difference here
is that instead of there being a
set number of Fly Guy's per
level, as soon as a Fly Guy is
killed another one will appear
on one of the screens to take
its place. As the game goes on,
additional Mario's will be
thrown into the game. If you
have three Mario's drop off of
the screen, the game is over. As
the game progresses, the Fly
Guy's become tiny and eventually
there will be tons of them upon
both screens. At that point you
have to just keep tapping the
Mario's and not bother aiming
them as the game becomes far too
quick to give enough time to
plan a strategy. How many Fly
Guy's can you kill?

========================
~Connect the Characters~
========================
In this psydo version of the
mini-game Mario Slides, four
character heads will appear on
the top screen, with their
bodies on the bottom screen. You
need to draw lines to direct
each head to its proper body.
However, you have as much time
as you need. The heads won't
fall until you press the "Go"
button. Draw your lines and
ensure everybody goes to their
correct bodies, then press the
button when you are set. If
everything goes well, you move
to the next level. If anybody
lands on the wrong body, the
game is over. The lines you make
will stay for five levels, after
which the board is cleared. As
you get into higher levels, you
will probably need to make more
lines and more characters appear
instead of just two.

=============
~Shell Smash~
=============
In this swiping mini-game, you
have a paddle similar to the
format in Shuffle Shell.
However, there is a group of six
red shells on the top screen and
you need to ram the green shell
you have into them. Whenever any
two shells hit eachother you
will get points. 10 for the
first hit, 20 for the second,
30, and so on. You get five
green shells. If two green
shells hit, then the points you
would get for that collision are
multiplied by ten. So, on the
17th collision between red
shells or a red and green shell
you would normally get 170
points, but between two green
shells that would give you 1700
points. Quite nice.

There is a trick you can use to
max out your score. Hold the
bottom left corner of the paddle
with your stylus, and hold the
paddle right below the shell.
Then, touch the top right corner
of the paddle while still
holding the bottom left corner.
If done right, the shell will be
struck with absurd speed and
will bounce crazily around the
table, giving you a ton of point
rather quickly. You can do this
on all five shells to easily max
out your score (which is around
216,000 points).

===================
~Trampoline Terror~
===================
This game is only good for those
with expert trampoline skills.
Much like the other trampoline
game similar to it, you need to
draw trampolines to keep Mario
in the air. However, you are
trying to get him to fly through
rings in the air as well. As
time progresses, a second,
third, and even fourth Mario
will be thrown into the game. If
three Mario's drop off of the
bottom screen, the game is over.
A large trampoline safety net
will be drawn at the bottom of
the touch screen at the
beginning of the game. It will
disappear after three hits, so
you can't lose any Mario's until
that happens. You get 100 points
each time you go through a ring.
If the same Mario goes through
more rings before hitting a
trampoline, the points keep
doubling to 200, 400, 800, etc.
How many points can you obtain?

========================
VII C.Luigi's Mini-games
========================
Luigi's mini-games are all
casino themed, and the majority
of them will require a decent
amount of luck to succeed. Don't
turn these games down just
because they sound like luck
related games. Although most of
them are luck games, several of
them are quite addicting and
will have you playing for hours.
In most games you will be
playing with coins instead of
points. You usually have to bet
coins in some games. If you
lose, you either lose a certain
amount of coins or however many
you betted. If you win, your
payout is usually double what
you betted or a set amount, or
even sometimes there's a
different multiplier depending
on the game. Finally, your score
carries over on most games. If
you had 13 victories and 85
coins and quit the game, the
next time you play you will
start with that amount. Quite
nice.

==============
~Memory Match~
==============
In this memory mini-game, Luigi
will throw a group of cards onto
the table. Your objective is to
simply match the cards in pairs
and eliminate them all. You
always bet three coins at the
start, and lose one for each
incorrect guess. Lose all three
coins and you fail, a victory is
taken off your current total,
and Luigi redeals the cards. As
you get more victories, you will
need to match up more cards. It
starts getting hard when there
are 12 cards on the field. That
means six pairs, so three pairs
you will have to make out of
total luck. This game isn't very
fun because it is nearly
impossible on hard levels. When
you clear the cards, however
many coins you still have left
in your bet is multiplied by six
and is added to your total
coins.

=============
~Pair-a-Gone~
=============
In this matching mini-game,
Luigi will start out by dealing
20 cards onto the table, in a
five by four formation. Your
objective is to match pairs of
cards that are touching
eachother either side by side,
up and down, or diagonally. When
you make a pair, Luigi throws
another two cards onto the
table. On the top right corner
you can see how many cards Luigi
has left to deal. All you need
to do is clear the entire table
and you earn ten coins. Fail,
and you will lose ten coins.
Simple as that.

However, as you progress through
the levels, there will be more
cards and more characters will
appear on the cards. The highest
it will reach is 80 cards to
begin with, and about 6 or 7
characters. The game is still
pretty easy if you know wha to
do. To raise your chances of
victory in the harder levels,
choose a card you don't want to
make matches of. I generally go
for the clouds, but you can
choose anything. Then, never
make a match of that card unless
you have to. If you do this,
towards the end when there's a
few cards left, all of the cards
that you chose not to make
matches of will still
(hopefully) be on the table,
making the end of the game easy.
Any other cards you couldn't get
rid of you can match up as well.
This won't always work, however,
as sometimes you will get
screwed over. If you know that
it is impossible to win, just
choose to quit the game. You
won't lose any coins until the
"You lose" sign appears.

===============
~Picture Poker~
===============
In this risky mini-game, you are
pretty much playing a normal
game of poker. However, all of
the cards are pictures of
characters or items. Luigi will
deal you and himself five cards,
and you will place an ante bet.
This starts at one coin and
raises by one for each group of
5 victories. The most you put as
an ante will be 4 eventually,
and you can choose to bet more
coins, up to a total of a five
coin bet. When you win a game,
you don't get a specified number
of coins. It depends on your
hand.

You get double coins for a pair,
quadruple coins for three of a
kind, X6 for a full house, X8
for four of a kind, and X16 for
five of a kind. If you and Luigi
tie hands, there always will be
a winner. To the left of your
hand you should see the symbols
on the cards in ascending order.
Cloud, Mushroom, Flower, Luigi,
Mario, and Star. If you and
Luigi have a full house, but you
have three Mario's and he has
three Flower's, you would win
because Mario is higher on the
ladder than the Flower is. On
your turn you can choose to
discard however many cards you
want, or just keep your hand.
Then Luigi will deal you the
amount of cards you discarded,
and the new cards may help or
make your hand even more
useless. Try to max out the coin
count!

===================
~Mushroom Roulette~
===================
In this spinning mini-game,
Luigi will present a roulette
wheel. You will then have five
coins to spend. Place them on
the board however you see fit.
There are six different items,
and each one appears twice as
red and black. You can put your
coins onto guessing the ball
will end up on a black space, a
red space, guess the actual
space, or place a coin on the
center of four squares and count
as a guess for all of them.

If you guess the actual symbol
and are correct, you win X12 the
amount of coins in that space.
If you place a bet on four
squares, you win X3 the amount
of coins on that space. If you
place a coin between two
squares, you win X6 the amount
of coins on that space if
correct. If you place a bet on
either the ball landing on a red
or a black and are correct, you
win double your coins.

============
~Mario Slot~
============
All this is is a slot machine.
You will place one coin inside
the machine to begin with and
the reels will start spinning.
You can bet an additional two
coins as well. The Superstars
are wild cards. They are the
orange stars with a blue circle
around them. Don't confuse them
with normal, yellow stars. The
reels don't keep spinning a few
seconds after you tap them. They
stop the instant you tap them.
If you are able to learn the
timing for all of the reels and
their patterns, you can easily
line up three Superstars (Which
is X20 your bet). The timing is
hard to learn, but the game is
very easy if you are capable of
figuring it out.

=============
~Lucky Stars~
=============
In this lucky mini-game, Luigi
will place two cards on the
table and you will make an ante
bet of one coin. This bet
increases every few levels to a
maximum of four coins. You can
then choose to make an
additional bet if you want, up
to a maximum bet of five coins.
Then, just pick a card. If your
card has more stars on it than
the other card, you win and get
double the coins you bet. If
not, then you lose the coins and
one victory. That is all there
is to this game. It's nothing
but luck.

====================
~Pair-a-Gone And On~
====================
In this crazier matching mini-
game, you will be playing
similar to the normal Pair-a-
Gone. The only catch here is
that the game will continue to
go on forever until there are no
more moves left. You will start
the game with few different
symbols on the cards, but the
more cards you clear, the more
symbols that will appear. Worst
yet, there will be more than
there originally appear in the
normal Pair-a-Gone (I think 6 in
that game, but you will find 8
in this mini-game). Use the same
technique that you should have
used in the original Pair-a-
Gone. Try not to make certain
matches until it is absolutely
necessary. Doing this may just
allow you to make several more
matches later on down the road.
How many cards can you clear
before you run out of moves?

===============
~Memory Master~
===============
In this mega memory mini-game,
Luigi will deal out a number of
cards. He will then reveal 1/3rd
of the cards to you at random,
and at the same time. You then
need to match up all of the
cards. You will get a large
amount of coins if you can clear
the board. As you progress
through the game, you will need
to match more and more cards.

==================
~Super Mario Slot~
==================
In this rendetion of the mini-
game of similar name, Super
Mario Slot is pretty easy. It
works exactly the same. The
multipliers for when you win is
the same, you start with a one
coin bet and can be and
additional two, and you stop the
reels the exact same way. The
only difference here is that you
are far more likely to land on a
Superstar than before, and
getting just one of those
doubles payout of your bet, so
you almost always are profiting
from this game.

========================
VII D.Wario's Mini-games
========================
Wario's mini-games are generally
all skill related, although some
of them are a mix like Yoshi's
set of mini-games. Some of them
require memorization, a quick
eye and good timing, or maybe
even a bit of luck. All of these
mini-games have you trying to
earn as many points as possible,
although several games have a
set maxmium amount of points you
can obtain.

===============
~Bob-omb Squad~
===============
In this quick action mini-game,
Bob-ombs will be raining down
from the sky. It is your job to
knock them out using the
cannonball and slingshot you are
provided. Pull it back and let
go and release the ball. If you
hit a Bob-omb it will be knocked
out and you will get 100 points.
If you hit multiple Bob-ombs
with the same ball, you will get
more points. It goes 100, 200,
400, 800, and so on. The game
will start off slow, but speeds
up quite quickly. You have
infinite cannonballs so keep
flinging them. Every now and
then you should hear a Lakitu
float around the top screen
several times. If you hit him,
all Bob-ombs will explode. You
only get 100 points per Bob-omb,
however. If a Bob-omb reaches
the ground, one of the flowers
will die. If four Bob-ombs reach
the ground, the game is over.

=================
~Snowball Slalom~
=================
In this quick swiping mini-game,
your objective is to roll the
snowball down the hill. Swipe
the stylus upwards to make the
snowball gain speed. Flick it
left or right to manuver to
snowball that direction. You
need to make it avoid the rocks
in your path. You only have 20
seconds to finish the course,
and there's very little chance
of victory if you hit a rock.
This mini-game is borderline
impossible unless you intend on
totally annhilating your touch
screen.

============
~Bingo Ball~
============
In this bouncing mini-game,
there will be nine numbers at
the bottom of a plinko board,
and you are given nine balls.
Drag down the launcher and
release it to fling a ball onto
the board. When it lands in a
number, that number is marked on
the board. You get 100 points
the first time you get each
number. You get 100 points if
you make a three in a row combo.
You will have to get lucky in
order to score big here because
if you aren't too lucky you will
keep striking the same numbers
over and over again, resulting
in a waste of balls and no point
gain.

================
~Coincentration~
================
In this quick eye mini-game,
Wario will punch a Moneybag and
40 coins will fall out of it and
into the bricks on the touch
screen. You will be shown where
the coins hide, but almost all
at the same time! It's difficult
to memorize where all of the
coins go. Click a block to get
the coins inside. A perfect
score is finding all 40 coins.
Since this game is so difficult
to perfect, bringing a few
friends to help may be
advisable. Have each friend
focus on a certain row of
bricks. Hey, it just might work!
And that's less memorization for
each person. If you ever pick an
empty brick, the game is over.

=============
~Psyche Out!~
=============
In this psychic mini-game, you
are shown a card hovering over
the water. You have to determine
what symbol is on the other side
of the card and choose it on the
touch screen. This may seem just
like a guessing game, and it is
sometimes, but most of the time
if you focus on the card long
enough you can faintly see the
picture on the other side. As
you get more guesses correct,
more card options will appear on
the touch screen making guessing
even less likely to pay off for
you. Some luck may be required
for this game.

============
~Slots Shot~
============
In this lucky mini-game, you
have a board somewhat similar to
the Bingo Ball board. You have a
plunger and you need to use it
to send the nine balls to get
you points. Each hit of the
small Mushroom's gets you 3000
points. Getting a Pirhana Plant
loses the ball instantly, but
opens up part of the path to the
warp pipe that activates the
slot machine. If a ball falls
into one of the holes near the
bottom of the machine, you get
2000 points and that ball
reappears in the ramp and you
can shoot it again. You can only
do this four times, however.
Once you have lost every ball,
the game is over. High high can
you get your score?

===============
~Lakitu Launch~
===============
The setup is quite similar to
Bob-omb Launch, however this
time you are shooting Spinies.
Lakitus are holding up two large
bowls in the top screen. You
need to aim the Spinies and
launch them into the bowls. The
Spines can pass through the
bottom of the bowls fine, so
feel free to use that tactic.
You have only 30 seconds to get
as many Spines in the bowls as
you can. How many can you get?

========================
~Intense Coincentration~
========================
This short mini-game is much
like the original
Coincentration, but only 16
coins fall from the Moneybag.
This means it is much easier to
fail here and fewer coins appear
in each block. However, there
aren't as many locations you
need to memorize so it's an even
trade. Once again, you can
choose to bring over some
friends to help memorize the
locations of the coins. It will
be much easier this time since
each person would probably have
to remember only two or three
blocks.

=======================
~Giant Snowball Slalom~
=======================
The Giant Snowball Slalom mini-
game is much like the original,
except the course is twice is
long and you get 40 seconds.
Just like the original, I find
it completely impossible unless
destroying your touch screen in
an attempt to beat this your
kind of game. The snowball gets
too big too fast and gets too
much momentum. Now you have to
dodge rocks and huge penguins,
and the snowball refuses to turn
when it is really big. Don't
expect to complete this course
very easily!

================================
VII E.Rabbits locations for
Mini-games
================================
Once you talk to the Toad in the
Princess's Play Room, rabbits
will appear in specific
locations depending on the
character you are playing as.
Each rabbit will give you a
certain mini-game. Collect all
of the rabbits, collect all of
the mini-games. It's that
simple. Here are their locations
for each character.

-----------------
~Yoshi's Rabbits~
-----------------
1-On the bridge infront of the
castle 2-On the bridge infront
of the castle 3-On the bridge
infront of the castle 4-In the
castle's moat (appears only when
drained) 5-When facing the
castle, it is to the right of it
near a patch of flowers 6-From
where you start the game, it is
in the hedge maze to the left
7-Running infront of the Lethal
Lava Land painting

-----------------
~Mario's Rabbits~
-----------------
1-In the castle's moat (appears
only when drained) 2-Near the
guardrail near the waterfall
outside of the castle 3-In the
room with the Jolly Rodger Bay
painting 4-Near the Lethal Lava
Land painting 5-Near the Lethal
Lava Land painting 6-Infront of
the Wet-Dry World painting 7-In
the mirror room with the
entrance to Snowman's Land

-----------------
~Luigi's Rabbits~
-----------------
1-From where tou start the game,
in the hedge maze to the left
2-In the room with the Bob-omb
Battlefield painting 3-Behind
the 8 Star Door in the
Princess's Play Room 4-In the
castle courtyard, in a small
nook above the door 5-Once
you've drained the moat,
wandering the tunnel behind the
pillars 6-Infront of the Wet-Dry
World painting 7-On the roof of
the castle (need 150 to access
or a special trick)

-----------------
~Wario's Rabbits~
-----------------
1-From where you start the game,
it is running to the right of
you 2-In the room with the
Whomp's Fortress painting
3-Running around the hole that
leads to the Over the Rainbow
Secret Star 4-Near the Toad in
the basement of the castle 5-In
the castle's courtyard, near the
Eternal Star statue 6-Near the
entrance to Tick Tock Clock 7-In
the room with the entrance to
Tiny-Huge Island

--------------------------------
    ~VIII.FAQ (Frequently Asked 
--------------------------------
There have been hundreds and
thousands of questions posed on
the message board, but a lot of
them have been asked dozens of
times before. Such repitition
has led to board veterans
getting frustrated with the new
user's asking the question's.
Thusly, this sections exists to
hopefully quench any possible
common question you may have
about the game.

Q:How do I enter the castle at
the start of the game? A:I've
actually seen this question
before. Seriously. Just listen
to what Lakitu says when you try
to open the door. Head to the
hedge maze near where you
started the game and capture the
rabbit with your tongue. It
isn't that difficult. Your
reward is the key to the castle.

Q:How do I unlock Mario? A:It's
just so hard to keep progressing
through the game until it
prompts you to unlock Mario.
First, you need to collect at
least 8 Stars. Once you have
done so, enter the 1 Star door
in the top right corner of the
castle lobby. Head straight
through the room and into the
Princess's Play Room. You should
see an 8 Star Door in here. Go
through it and jump into the
Mario painting. Work your way
through this level and reach
Goomboss. Defeat him as Yoshi
and you will claim the Mario
Key. Stick it into his door and
you can play as him.

Q:...as for Luigi? A:You'll
probably figure out how to
unlock Luigi on your own as you
progress through the game. Of
course, if you don't know where
the area is you will never find
him. First, head to Big Boo's
Haunt as any character that can
access it. Then, make your way
to the third floor. This is
easiest on later Stars where the
stairs are active leading to the
second floor. On the third floor
you will notice a Luigi
painting. Jump into it. Make
your way through the level,
avoiding starting over the level
many times by entering the wrong
door. Eventually you will reach
King Boo. Defeat him to recieve
the Luigi Key. Stick it into the
Luigi door and you will be able
to play as him.

Q:What about Wario? A:Head to
the mirror room as Luigi. You
should notice that all of the
pedestals in the room have Power
Flowers atop of them. Grab one
of them to turn invisible, then
while so you need to run through
the mirror to the other side.
Jump into the Wario painting
that is there. Make your way
through the level until you
fight Chief Chilly. When you
defeat him, you will recieve the
Wario Key. Stick it into the
Wario door and you will be able
to play as him.

Q:How do I reset the mini-game
scores? A:Some people buy this
game used and want to start the
entire game from the beginning,
but the mini-game scores can't
be deleted easily. When starting
the game (after choosing it from
the DS menu), hold A+B+L+R+
Start+Select and you will be
shown a screen confirming if you
want to erase all data within
the game. Choose "Yes" and it
will be as if you just bought
the game new.

Q:How do I get those invisible
block things to be solid?
A:Damnit this question is asked
far too often. Get at least 14
Stars. You will notice in the
castle lobby that a ray of
sunlight is shining into the
room. Stand at the spot the sun
is shining into and look into
the sun with the close-up camera
view. You'll be transported to
the Wing Cap Level. You have to
be Mario when doing this. Fly
down to the tower and stomp on
the large, red button. All of
the invisible blocks will turn
solid and you can hit them for
the Power Flowers inside.

Q:What's the best walkthrough to
use for this game? A:I'm going
to go ahead and say mine for
obvious reason. Several other of
the walkthrough's are pretty
good as well. It doesn't really
matter, as long as you get the
answer you are looking for.

Q:Is there a way to access the
final Bowser with a character
other than Mario? A:Yes! There's
a glitch that allows any
character to skip the endless
staircase. Look for the glitch
in the Gliches section further
down.

Q:What's this "Uberquest" thing
people talk about? A:The
Uberquest exploits a glitch that
allows Yoshi to walk underwater
right from the beginning of the
game. By doing so, he can enter
the basement via the door in the
moat. He can then get enough
Stars to do Bowser in the Fire
Sea first and proceed to beat
the game from there using
glitches to get into Bowser in
the Sky.

Q:What's the best character the
play as? A:Luigi. So many Stars
can be abused by his backflip
that it's insane. Yoshi is also
a good character due to some
similarites to Luigi. Mario is
next only because his redeeming
traits are the Wing Cap and Wall
Kick. Wario is last due to the
few Stars that actually requires
him, and his crappy jumping and
running skills (as well as his
voice annoying many players).

Q:What do most people consider
the hardest Star in the game?
A:The 100 Coins Star for either
Hazy Maze Cave or Rainbow Ride.
I personally find both fairly
easy, but most people find them
quite difficult. Tick Tock Clock
and Rainbow Ride are considered
the hardest overall courses, and
Wing Mario over the Rainbow is
considered the hardest Castle
Secret Star.

Q:I have one Castle Secret Star
left! Where is it? A:We're not
psychic's. We can't really
answer that for you. You should
just get a checklist of all
those Stars (look at my own if
you want) and get each Star,
checking it off if you already
have it. Several Castle Secret
Stars can't be obtained more
than once. These include the Boo
Courtyard Red Coins, the Star in
the Mirror Room door, and the
Star in the white door in the
character room. If you can't
find those, then you already
have them. The most common
overlooked Star is in the King
Boo Battle area, where you must
get invisible Luigi to the Star
behind the Boo portrait.

--------------------------------
  ~IX.Signs and Plaques List~
--------------------------------
For those curious, this is a
list of what is found on all of
the signs and plaques found in
and out of the castles and the
levels. I also describe their
locations. Have you read them
all?

====================
~Outside the Castle~
====================
Near where you start-"Princess
Toadstool's Castle Ahead! We
want to extend a warm welcome to
Mario and his crew! As for
Bowser, GO HOME! You'll
initially start in Standard
Mode. You can access all three
modes by pressing SELECT. In
Standard Mode, the controls are:
B:Jump; Hold B as Yoshi:Flutter
Kick; R:Crouch; A:Swallow items,
pick up items, or punch
depending on which character you
are. Press A again while holding
something to spit it out or
throw it; Y:Hold it while moving
to dash."

Near the hedge maze:"You can
choose which mode to play in by
pressing SELECT. The top screen
will show the functions of the
controls in each of the 3 modes.
Choose whichever mode you like
best. Standard Mode is ideal for
first-timers. Pick Touch Mode to
move with the Touch Screen. The
thumb pad on the Wrist Strap is
idea for this mode. To walk and
run with the stylus, choose
Dual-Hand Mode."

Near the above sign-"Climbing's
easy! When you jump at trees,
poles, or pillars, you'll grab
them automatically. In Standard
Mode:Press the Control Pad Up or
Down to climb. Crouch to stop
climbing. To rotate around the
object, press Right or Left on
the Control Pad. Leap toward the
character's back to jump off in
that direction. When you reach
the top, press Up on the Control
Pad to do a handstand! Jump off
from the handstand for a high,
stylin' dismount."

To the right of the
castle-"Slide down a slope by
crouching. Or, crouch in the air
to pound the ground. If you
stop, crouch, then jump, you'll
do a backward somersault! Got
that? There's more. Crouch and
then jump while running to do a
long jump! Or crouch and walk
to...Never mind, It's a secret."

Next to the cannon-"Swimming
Lessons! You can't breathe under
the water! Here's how to swim in
Standard Mode. Hold B to swim
and tap it steadily to speed up.
Press Up on the Control Pad
while swimming to dive. To head
for the surface or jump out of
the water, hold Down on the
Control Pad, then press B. Piece
of cake, right?"

==============
~Castle Lobby~
==============
Toad-"Thank heavens you came
too, Yoshi! Bowser has locked
Princess Toadstool and all of us
inside the walls. He stole out
Power Stars and is using their
magic to create and evil land of
monsters in the castle walls and
paintings. Mario and his buddies
went to retrieve the Stars, but
they haven't come back. Last I
saw them, they were heading to
the room on the left with the
painting of Bob-ombs. Where are
they? Are they taking a nap
somewhere? So now it's up to
you, Yoshi, to find them and
retrieve the Stars! We all are
depending on you!"

================================
~In the Bob-omb Battlefield
painting room~
================================
Toad-"Yoshi! Mario and the
others jumped into that picture.
But...they haven't come back
out, despite the castle's
plight. Despite all that, it's
really rude to act like a
maniac. Use the Touch Screen to
run and walk, even across narrow
ledges."

Plaque 1-"You have to master two
important jumping techniques if
you wish to succeed. To triple
jump, run and jump three times
in a row. If you time it right,
you'll hop, skip, then jump
really high. Next, go for
distance with the long jump.
Run, crouch, and then jump to
leap far. Got that? Triple jump,
long jump. You don't stand a
chance without them."

Plaque 2-"You can return to the
castle's main hall at any time
from the painting worlds. Just
press START to pause the game,
then select Exit Course. You
don't have to collect all the
Power Stars in one course before
going on to the next. Return
when you're more experienced to
pick up other Stars."

=====================
~Bob-omb Battlefield~
=====================
Bob-omb Buddy 1-"Danger! We're
in the midst of a war between
the evil black Bob-ombs and us
Bob-omb Buddies. Take a look at
the map. When you go down the
road and cross the 2 bridges,
you'll be in their territory.
You see the Star on top of that
mountain? That's where the king
of the Bob-ombs is. He's very
powerful and throws Bob-ombs
from the mountaintop. Be careful
if you're heading toward the
mountain!"

Bob-omb Buddy 2-"You there, sir.
Watch out! Wander around here
and you might get plastered by a
water bomb! This meadow has
become a battlefield ever since
the Big Bob-omb got his paws on
the Power Star. Just a little
while ago, a mustached man with
a red cap just wouldn't listen
and left for the mountain. Come
to think of it, that mustached
man hasn't returned. I wonder
whatever happened to him..."

Nearby sign-"Here's a piece of
advice for the green fellow
without a mustache. When playing
in Standard Mode:If you're
feeling hungry, press A to stick
out your tongue and swallow an
enemy. Press A again to spit it
out. Or, you can lay and egg by
crouching while your mouth is
full. Press A again to throw the
egg. Remember, some enemies
won't turn into eggs even if you
swallow them."

Nearby sign-"If you sport a cap
and mustache, this advice is for
you: Defend yourself against
enemies! In Standard Mode, press
A to punch. Press B to jump.
Press A and B at the same time
to kick. Press A to pick up
something. To throw something
you're holding, press A again."

Sign near Red ? Block-"When you
step on the strange ? Switch
hidden in the castle, the ?
Blocks will become solid. Some
of these blocks have useful
items inside. Get the items by
breaking the blocks. But beware!
Some blocks may be duds."

Sign near Chain Chomp-"BEWARE OF
CHAIN CHOMP Extreme Danger! In
Standard Mode, you can center
the camera behind you by
pressing L. This move is helpful
when you want to look at
something up close. See the red
coin on top of the stake? When
you collect 8 of them, a Power
Star will appear. The map on the
touch screen will show you where
the Star is."

Sign past tilting bridge-"Slide
down a slope by crouching. Or,
crouch in the air to pound the
ground. If you stop, crouch,
then jump, you'll do a backward
somersault! Got that? There's
more. Crouch and then jump while
running to do a long jump! Or,
crouch and walk to...Never mind.
It's a secret."

Sign near the four posts-"The
shadowy star in front of you is
a Star Marker. When you collect
all 8 red coins, a Star will
appear here."

Sign in the meadow-"You can fly
if you're wearing the red Wing
Cap! Put the cap on, then triple
jump to take off. You can fly
even higher if you blast out of
a cannon wearing the Wing Cap!"

Sign near large gate-"No
visitors allowed, by decree of
the Big Bob-omb. I shall never
surrender my Stars. They hold
the power of the castle in their
glow. They were a gift from
Bowser, the Koopa King himself.
They lie well hidden within my
realm. Not a whisper of their
whereabouts shall leave my lips.
Oh, all right, perhaps just a
hint:heed the Star names at the
beginning of the course. --The
Big Bob-omb"

Sign halfway up the
mountain-"You can grab the edge
of a cliff or ledge with your
fingertips and hand down from
it. If you are in Standard Mode:
Drop down from the edge by
crouching of pressing the
Control Pad in the direction of
your back. Climb onto the ledge
by pressing Up on the Control
Pad. Press B as soon as you grab
the edge to climb up quickly!"

Sign near spinning heart-"Coins
refill your Power Meter, so get
as many as you can! Spinning
hearts also refill your Power
Meter. The faster you run
through a Spinning Heart, the
more you'll recover."

Sign on the island-"If you pass
through a coin ring or find a
secret point in a course,
sometimes a red number will
appear. If you trigger five red
numbers, a Secret Star will show
up."

Sign on the island-"When Mario
gets Wings from a ? Block, he'll
be able to fly. Perform a triple
jump to take off. In Standard
Mode, once Mario's in the air,
press the Control Pad Down to
ascend and press it Up to
descend. Press R to stop
flying!"

================================
~Whomp's Fortress Painting Room~
================================
Toad-"Bowser took all the Stars
I tried to hide here. There are
7 Stars in each course. You'll
need your buddies to get some of
them. Teamwork goes a long way
when you're going up against
Bowser."

Plaque-"Sometimes you'll bump
into invisible walls at the
edges of painting worlds. If you
hit a wall while flying, you'll
bounce backward."

==================
~Whomp's Fortress~
==================
Near the start-"I'm sleeping
because......I'm sleepy. I don't
like being disturbed. Please
walk quitely. And please don't
throw eggs at me!"

Next to the two posts-"The
shadowy star infront of you is a
Star Marker. When you collect
all 8 red coins, a Star will
appear here."

Next to the blue coin
switch-"Crouch while jumping to
pound the ground and smash
certain objects. Ground-pound
blue switches to make blue coins
appear. Each blue coin is worth
5 yellow coins. But you have to
hurry! The coins will disappear
if you're not quick enough to
collect them!"

Near the ? Red Block-"When you
step on the strange ? Switch
hidden in the castle, the ?
Blocks will become solid. Some
of these blocks have useful
items inside. Get the items by
breaking the blocks. But beware!
Some blocks may be duds."

Top of the Thwomp hill-"The path
is narrow here. Easy does it! No
on is allowed on the top of the
mountain! And if you know what's
good for you, you won't wake
anyone who's sleeping! Move
slowly. Tread lightly. And
definitely don't throw eggs at
sleepers!"

Near falling bridge-"In Standard
Mode, press L to center the
camera behind you. Even when
it's hard to see what's around
you, relax and press L. A word
of advice:keep going but don't
rush."

Past falling bridge-"Caution!
Narrow bridge! Cross slowly! You
can jump to the edge of the
cliff and hang on, and you can
climb off the edge if you move
slowly. To let go in Standard
Mode, crouch or press the
Control Pad in the direction of
your back. To climb up the edge,
press B. You can also press the
Control Pad in the direction you
are facing."

Next to large pole-"Climbing's
easy! When you jump at trees,
poles, or pillars, you'll grab
them automatically. In Standard
Mode:Press the Control pad Up or
Down to climb. Crouch to stop
climbing. To rotate around the
object, press Right or Left on
the Control Pad. Leap toward the
character's back to jump off in
that direction. When you reach
the top, press Up on the Control
Pad to do a handstand! Jump off
from the handstand for a high,
stylin' dismount."

Next to large pole-"OBSERVATION
PLATFORM. Press X to switch to
first- person view and take a
look around. Don't miss
anything!"

================================
~Jolly Rodger Bay Painting Room~
================================
Toad-"The Star you chose at the
beginning of the course appears
on the map below. The name of
the Star is also a clue. You can
also collect Stars that don't
appear on the map. Get the Stars
in any order you like. Keep in
mind, though...Some Stars only
appear when you choose specific
missions, enemies, and items.
Once you've retrieved some
Stars, moves on to the door to
the next course. Everyone's
waiting for you to save us!"

Plaque-"Activate the ? Switch in
the castle's mystical Rainbow
Tower to make all the ? Blocks
solid. Break the ? Blocks to get
special items like Power
Flowers. These bewitching
blossoms strengthen each
character in a different way.
Depending on their dispositions,
characters can float, turn into
metal, disappear, or breathe
fire. In addition to Power
Flowers, ? Blocks can also give
you Wings to fly. But only if
you are the original plumber."

==================
~Jolly Rodger Bay~
==================
Near where you start-"ATTENTION!
Read Before Diving In! You'll
run out of air if you linger
underwater. Return to the
surface, find an air bubble, or
collect coins to breathe while
underwater. In Standard Mode,
press B to swim and hold it to
swim at a slow and steady pace.
Tap B rhythmically to speed up.
Hold down Y to swim quickly.
Press Up on the Control Pad and
press B to dive. Press Down on
the Control Pad and B to return
to the surface. You'll jump out
of the water when you're at the
surface. To turn around quickly,
stop and press the Control Pad
in the direction you want to
go."

Sign near where you
start-"Certain people have a
natural agility and lightness.
These slender whisps can run on
water for a bit...But only if
they sprint towards it! I wonder
why they have that power...Maybe
it's those green caps they wear
that make them as light and
flexible as blades of grass.
They are delicate and sensitive
creatures, so be nice when you
see them."

Near the ? Red Block-"When you
step on the strange ? Switch
hidden in the castle, the ?
Blocks will become solid. Some
of these blocks have useful
items inside. Get the items by
breaking the blocks. But beware!
Some blocks may be duds."

Near the Bob-omb
Buddy-"Climbing's easy! When you
jump at trees, poles, or
pillars, you'll grab them
automatically. In Standard
Mode:Press the Control pad Up or
Down to climb. Crouch to stop
climbing. To rotate around the
object, press Right or Left on
the Control Pad. Leap toward the
character's back to jump off in
that direction. When you reach
the top, press Up on the Control
Pad to do a handstand! Jump off
from the handstand for a high,
stylin' dismount."

Near ! Switch-"When using the
Touch Screen, it's easy to walk
or run. You can even calmly and
coolly navigate your way across
narrow ledges. Use the thumb pad
on the wrist strap for smoother
control that your finger."

In the ocean cave-"Keep out!
That means you! Arrgghh! Anyone
entering this cave without
permission will meet certain
disaster. --The Cap'n"

Next to Switch Star-"In front of
you is a Star Switch. Step on it
to make a Star appear in the
course. Hurry to collect the
Star before it disappears! Don't
forget that you can check the
Star's location on the Touch
Screen map."

Near the chests-"Aarrgh! Ahoy,
matey. I have sunken treasure
here, I do. But to pluck the
plunder, you must open the
treasure chests in the right
order. What order is that, ye
say? I'll never tell! --The
Cap'n"

================================
~Cool, Cool Mountain Painting
Room~
================================
Plaque-"You can do a backward
somersault by jumping while
crouched. Jump while making a
sharp U-turn to do a side
somersault. Catch big air with
both jumps."

=====================
~Cool, Cool Mountain~
=====================
Sign near cabin-"Santa Claus
isn't the only one who can go
down a chimney! Come on in!
--Cabin Propietor"

Sign near broken
bridge-"Warning! Cold, Cold
Crevasse Below!"

Sign near large broken
bridge-"Warning! Cold, Cold
Crevasse Below!""

=====================
~Character Door Room~
=====================
Plaque-"My castle is in great
peril!! I know it's because of
Bowser again. Will he ever tire
of terrorizing us? He stole the
Power Stars and disappeared into
the walls along with us!
Retrieve all of the Power Stars
from the walls and paintings in
the castle. Here is a hint:there
are secret paths in this room,
and one of them leads to a
Secret Star. Find the Secret
Star! It will help you on your
quest."

======================
~Princess's Play Room~
======================
Toad-"Awesome! All the keys are
back. Princess Toadstool won't
get mad now. How can I ever
thank you...? Please play the
mini-games in the drawer to your
heart's content!"

=================
~Goomboss's Area~
=================
Next to Star Switch-"In front of
you is a Star Switch. Step on it
to make a Star appear in the
course. Hurry to collect the
Star before it disappears! Don't
forget that you can check the
Star's location on the Touch
Screen map."

Next to spinning heart-"Hop onto
high places with the wall kick.
Just jump at a wall, then jump
again when you hit the wall.
Keep in mind that only the
superhero with the red cap can
pull this move off."

==================
~Castle Courtyard~
==================
Sign near some flowers-"With the
legendary wall kick, you can
access high places. To wall
kick, jump at a wall, then jump
again when you hit the wall.
Keep in mind that the only
person who can pull this move
off is... The superhero with the
red cap!"

Sign near other flowers-"Jumping
Technique 1 To triple jump, run
and then jump three times in a
row. If you time them right,
you'll hop, skip, then jump
really high. Jumping Techinque 2
You can do a backward somersault
if you jump while crouching!
Jumping Technique 3 You can jump
far with the long jump if you
run fast, crouch, and then
jump."

Sign behind star statue-"You can
run and dive at enemies with a
slide attack. To do this move in
Standard Mode, run and then
press A. To jump out of the
slide and land back on your
feet, press either A or B. Only
mustached players can pull this
move off. Don't even think of
trying it if you don't have a
mustache!"

Sign behind star statue-"Psst!
The Boos are super shy. If you
look them in the eyes, they fade
away. They reappear when you
turn your back, so don't let
them sneak up on you! It's no
use trying to hit them when
they're fading away. Instead,
sneak up from behind and punch
them. You can't swallow Boos, so
this is where you'll need a
mustached hero to save the day."

=============
~Battle Fort~
=============
Sign next to Star Sphere-"The
clear ball you see infront of
you is a Star Sphere. When you
get all 5 Silver Stars, the
Power Star will appear inside
the Star Sphere."

=================
~Big Boo's Haunt~
=================
Near the shack-"Running around
in circles makes some bad guys
roll their eyes. Use the Touch
Screen to run smoothly."

Infront of the mansion-"Power
Flowers give heroes power
depending on their personality.
Wispy Luigi will disappear
altogether. He'll even be able
to walk through secret walls!
Even the Big Boo will be
fooled!"

Infront of the mansion-"You
don't stand a ghost of a chance
in this house. If you make it
out alive, you deserve...a Ghoul
Medal..."

Infront of the mansion-"Psst!
The Boos are super shy. If you
look them in the eyes, they fade
away. They reappear when you
turn your back, so don't let
them sneak up on you! It's no
use trying to hit them when
they're fading away. Instead,
sneak up from behind and punch
them. You can't swallow Boos, so
this is where you'll need a
mustached hero to save the day."

=================
~Castle Basement~
=================
Toad-"Wow! You've already
recovered that many Stars? Way
to go! You'll have us out of
here in no time! Be careful,
though. Bowser and his band
wrote the book on bad. Take my
advice:When you fall from a high
place, it'll hurt less if you
ground-pound near the ground. If
you go back to your room, you
can switch with Yoshi. Everyone
deserves a chance to shine."

Plaque-"It is decreed that one
shall pound the pillars."

==============================
~Hazy Maze Cave Entrance Room~
==============================
Toad-"Even if all the caps look
the same, the one you've been
wearing for years is special.
Your luck will run out if you
lose it. When you lose your cap,
hitting a ? Block is very
unlucky. But don't worry. You
can find your cap in the course
where you lost it. It should
appear on the map below."

================
~Hazy Maze Cave~
================
At the start-"In Standard Mode,
press L to center the camera
behind you. Even when it's hard
to see what's around you, relax
and press L. A word of
advice:keep going but don't
rush."

Near the start-"Both ways
fraught with danger! Watch your
feet! Those who can't do the
long jump, tsk tsk. Make your
way to the right. Right:Work
Elevator; Hazy Maze. Left:Black
Hole; Underground Lake. Red
Circle: Elevator 2; Underground
Lake. Arrow:You are here"

Near red pole-"Work Elevator:For
those who get off here:grab the
pole to the left and slide down
carefully."

Below red pole-"Elevator Area;
Right:Hazy Maze Entrance.
Left:Black Hole; Elevator 1.
Arrow:You are here"

Near Hazy Maze Exit-"Hazy Maze
Exit Danger! Closed. Turn back
now."

Near black brick block-"The very
hard-looking block in front of
you really IS hard. Hitting it
is not advised. But if you're
shaped like a rock--and have
rocks for brains--you'll
probably do it anyway.

Below Work
Elevator-"Above:Automatic
Elevator. Elevator begins
automatically and follows a set
course. It disappears
automatically too."

Near the stairs-"Work Elevator
Danger!! Read instructions
thoroughly! Step on an arrow to
move the elevator in that
direction. Once you hop off the
elevator, it will return to its
original location."

Hazy Maze Entrance-"The Power
Flower gives strength to the
personality of the person who
plucked it. Iron man Wario will
turn into a metal man. He won't
be burned or hurt by enemy
attacks. He doesn't even have to
breathe while wearing it. The
only problem:he can't swim in
it."

Hazy Maze Entrance-"Danger
ahead! Beware of the strange
toxic cloud! Don't breathe it!
If you feel faint, run for
higher ground and fresh air!
Circle:Shelter. Arrow:Entrance-
Exit."

Near elevator-"Elevator 1.
Up:Black Hole. Right:Work
Elevator, Hazy Maze."

Near elevator room door-"The
Black Hole. Right:Work Elevator,
Hazy Maze. Left:Underground
Lake."

Near the large gap-"Slide down a
slope by crouching. Or, crouch
in the air to pound the ground.
If you stop, crouch, then jump,
you'll do a backward somersault!
Got that? There's more. Crouch
and then jump while running to
do a long jump! Or, crouch and
walk to...Never mind. It's a
secret."

Near second elevator-"Elevator
2. Down:Underground Lake.
Left:Black Hole. Right:Hazy Maze
Closed!"

In the underground
lake-"Underground Lake.
Right:Metal Cave. Left:
Abamdoned Mine Closed! A gentle
sea dragon lives here. Ground-
pound his back to make him lower
his head. Don't become his
lunch."

==================
~Lethal Lava Land~
==================
Sign at beginning-"Running
around in circles makes some bad
guys roll their eyes. Use the
Touch Screen to run smoothly."

Sign at beginning-"It's Lethal
Lava Land! If you catch fire or
fall into a pool of flames,
you'll be hopping mad. You can
still control your character.
Just don't lose your cool!"

Sign near black brick block-"Hop
on the shiny shell and ride
wherever you want to go. Shred
those enemies!"

====================
~Shifting Sand Land~
====================
Sign near Star Marker-"Hop on
the shiny shell and ride
wherever you want to go. Shred
those enemies!"

Entrance to Tox Box Maze-"Watch
out! Don't let yourself be
swallowed by quicksand. If you
sink into the sand, you can't
jump out, and if your head goes
under, you'll be smothered. The
dark areas are bottomless pits."

Sign near pyramid-"You can fly
if you're wearing the Wing Cap!
Put the cap on, then triple jump
to take off. You can fly higher
if you blast out of a cannon
wearing the Wing Cap!"

Inside pyramid-"Upon four towers
one must alight...Then at the
peak shall shine the light..."

Near the first Amp-"In Standard
Mode, jump and hold B to hang
onto some objects overhead. Use
this move to hitch a ride with a
flying bird."

==============
~Metal Cavern~
==============
Sign near start-"Metal Cavern.
Right:To ground. Left:????"

=================
~Dire Dire Docks~
=================
Near the submarine docks-"If you
pass through a coin ring or find
a secret point in a course,
sometimes a red number will
appear. If you trigger five red
numbers, a Secret Star will show
up."

===================
~2nd Floor Hallway~
===================
Plaque-"Shhh! Please walk
quietly in the hallway!"

Toad 1-"Thanks to the power of
the Stars, life is returning to
the castle. Please, you have to
give Bowser to boot! Here, let
me give you a hint about the
castle. In the room with the
mirror's, look carefully for
anything not reflected in the
mirror, and an ally with info.
And when you go to the water
town, you can flood it with a
high jump into the painting."

Toad 2-"Thanks! The castle is
recovering its energy as you
retrieve Power Stars. You've
chased Bowser right out of here,
on to some area ahead. Oh, by
the way, are you collecting
coins? Special Stars appear when
you collect 100 coins in each of
the 15 courses!"

================
~Snowman's Land~
================
Sign near the start-"Running
around in circles makes some bad
guys roll their eyes. Use the
Touch Screen to run smoothly."

Sign near ? Red Block-"The Power
Flower strengthens characters
depending on their personality
types. Eating nasty enemies has
given Yoshi a bad case of
heartburn! When he plucks a
Power Flower, he'll be able to
breathe fire!"

Sign near Ice Bully-"BRRR!
Frostbite Danger! Do not swim
here. I'm serious. --The
Penguin"

Sign near icy pond-"Snowman
Mountain ahead. Keep out! And
don't try to triple jump over
the ice-block shooter. If you
fall into the freezing pond,
your power decreases quickly and
won't recover automatically.
--The Snowman"

===============
~Wet-Dry World~
===============
Sign near top of town-"The
mystery of Wet or Dry. And where
does the solution lie? The city
welcomes visitors with the depth
they bring as they enter."

Sign near Goombas-"If you pass
through a coin ring or find a
secret point in a course,
sometimes a red number will
appear. If you trigger five red
numbers, a Secret Star will show
up."

Sign infront of ? Red Block-"In
Standard Mode, press L to center
the camera behind you. Even when
it's hard to see what's around
you, relax and press L. A word
of advice:keep going but don't
rush."

====================
~Tall Tall Mountain~
====================
Sign at the start-"Get a running
start up the slope with the long
jump! Remember how to do it?
Just run, crouch, then jump!"

Sign near the cannon-"Danger!
Strong Gusts! But the wind makes
a comfy ride."

==================
~Tiny-Huge Island~
==================
Sign near Koopa the Quick-"I'll
be back soon. I'm out training
now, so come back later. --Koopa
the Quick"

Sign on high island above
water-"It's not our problem if
you run around this spike and
get dizzy."

===================
~3rd Floor Hallway~
===================
Toad-"You've made it this far,
Mario. Bowser is waiting on the
top floor. You must go rescue
the princess. I'll stay here
and, um, keep a look out. But
before you go, keep in mind that
the world inside the clock is
weird! When you jump inside,
watch the position of the big
hand!"

=================
~Tick Tock Clock~
=================
Sign at the start-"When using
the Touch Screen, it's easy to
walk or run. You can even calmly
and coolly navigate your way
across narrow ledges. Use the
thumb pad on the wrist strap for
smoother control than your
finger."

==============
~Rainbow Ride~
==============
Sign at the start-"When using
the Touch Screen, it's easy to
walk or run. You can even calmly
and coolly navigate your way
across narrow ledges. Use the
thumb pad on the wrist strap for
smoother control than your
finger."

--------------------------------
  ~X.Unique Star Requirements~
--------------------------------
Bored with the game and want to
obtain several of the Stars in
the game in a different way than
the creator's originally
intended? Here I will describe
several ways in which you can
obtain some Stars in different,
and sometimes, far difficult
ways. Most of these techniques
require the use of glitches in
the game. See the appropriate
section to learn how to perform
them. The ones that don't
involve glitches are ones I have
made up. The rest were suggested
by board users.

================================
~Bob-omb Battlefield-Mario Wings
to the Sky~
================================
Normally, when you collect all
five secrets, the Star will
appear in a small field near
some Goombas. You probably would
swoop down to the Star, land,
and collect it. If you want to
give yourself an actual
challenge, then see if you can
run into the Star while still
flying, and not touching the
ground at all! This may seem
easy, but since you will collect
the last secret so high in the
air, it will be slightly
difficult to make your way down
and keep yourself there. You
will need to make a severe dive,
going at incredible speeds, and
hopefully have pinpoint accuracy
if you want to hit the Star
without missing.

================================
~Bob-omb Battlefield-Mario Wings
to the Sky~
================================
It may seem hard enough getting
all five secrets using the
cannon, but for a different dose
of fun, why not try getting all
five secrets without using
Mario? Better yet, why use a
cannon at all? Start as Luigi,
or at least get his cap quickly.
Get onto the floating island.
You can reach the first secret
quite easily. Use his Backflip
in order to reach the next two
coins. It may take a few tries,
but you'll get it. How to get
the last two coins, however, is
a different story. You need to
use a Heavens Portal to reach
it. Head to the mountain. You
know the slope that has a red
coin in the middle of it? Head
to the top of that slope. Turn
around and face the bottom of
it. Get a running start and long
jump to the slope on the right.
As soon as you do, perform a
slide kick (R+A) and aim towards
the left. If you did it right,
you should fall through the
mountain on the left, then
appear high in the air a few
seconds later. Steer yourself
into the remaining secret coins.
This will take several, perhaps
many tries. Eventually by using
this method you can get the
secrets without ever using a
cannon, or Mario for that
matter!

================================
~Dire Dire Docks-Through the Jet
Stream~
================================
Normally, in this Star, you
would need to use Metal Wario in
order to pass the jet stream and
grab the Star. However, there is
a cooler way to obtain this Star
as anybody else (or even Wario
without using the Power Flower).
However, Bowser's Submarine must
still be in the course,
otherwise this won't work.
First, get to the area in the
course with Bowser's Sub. Then
swim through the rings in order
to make the Star appear in the
center of the jet stream. Pretty
easy so far.

Now, swim to the back of the
submarine. You should see two
fins sticking out of the sides
near the propeller. They are
hovering right over the water.
Swim under them, then jump up
under them. When you are out of
the water under the fins for a
split second, do a Ground Pound.
You should fall through the wate
and land at the bottom of the
course. From here, the jet
stream won't affect you so you
can easily grab the Star. As
invisible Luigi, you can also
grab the Star in the cage with
this glitch rather easily.

==========================
~Unlock Luigi Using Wario~
==========================
It may not sound weird at first,
but think about it. Aren't you
supposed to unlock Wario by
using Luigi? How are you
supposed to do it the other way
around? With the help of a few
glitches, this is quite
possible. Head to the mirror
room as either Yoshi or Mario
(obviously, the only ones you
could be since you won't have
unlocked Luigi or Wario. This
glitch can still be done even
after they are unlocked). You
can get behind the mirror as any
character, actually. Head to the
right side of the mirror.
There's a white pillar at the
end of the mirror, and next to
the white pillar is the wall.
Long jump continuously where the
wall and this pillar meet. You
should eventually be shot up
through the ceiling. Jump
several times there until you
fall behind the mirror. You can
jump into the painting from
there.

================================
~Wet-Dry World-Quick Race
Through Downtown!~
================================
This Star generally isn't too
hard to obtain alone. But, do
you think you can do it without
using Luigi and not touching any
? Red Blocks or any of the
cannons? It isn't as impossible
as it sounds. You will find a
Chuck-Ya at the top of the town.
On the platform below it is a
metal box. Push the metal box
all the way into the corner
nearest Chuck-Ya above, and hop
onto the box. Get into the
corner of the walls, and make
the camera be in first person
view. Put the camera behind the
wall, then jump. This will
probably take many tries, but
eventually you will fall through
the box. You can walk out of the
walls of the world now.
Sometimes you will fall into a
pit out of bounds and die, other
times you will fall into
invisible water out of bounds
which you can swim in. You want
that one. Swim to the downtown
area. It won't load, however.
You can, though, sometimes see
the Star of Quick Race Through
Downtown in the area. Just swim
up to it and collect it. Sure,
this is technically harder, but
it is much more fun to pull off!

================================
~Whomp's Fortress-Blast Away the
Wall~
================================
Another rather easy Star. Did
you know that you can swim in
Whomp's Fortress? Did you also
know that you need to use King
Whomp to do this? Here's how.
This is considered an insanely
difficult trick to pull off, so
don't intend on doing it on your
first tries. Choose the first
Star and make your way up to
King Whomp. Start the battle,
then get to one of the edges of
the battlefield. When he
attempts to slam onto you, jump
before he hits the ground. You
want to be jumping pretty much
into his crown. Once you
eventually perform this
correctly, you will be swimming
in Whomp's Fortress somehow.
From where you are, you can swim
down to the area with the cannon
and where the Bob-omb Buddy
would be in later Stars. Swim
under the cannon by swimming out
of bounds and under the level,
then swimming up from under it
and into the cannon. If you do
this right, you will be in the
cannon. You can shoot out of it
(with normal physics) and slam
into the wall to reveal the
Star. This is insanely hard to
pull off, but is really cool to
do.

--------------------------------
        ~XI.Multiplayer~
--------------------------------
Have you grown tired of the
tedious gameplay of the normal
Adventure Mode? Well, this game
is packed with multiplayer built
right into it! The best part of
the multiplayer mode is that you
only need one game cartridge in
order to have fun with the rest
of your friends. As long as
somebody has Super Mario 64 DS,
everyone else can join along
with you. Multiplayer only
supports up to four people,
however.

To get setup, have the people
who have Super Mario 64 DS with
them choose Multiplayer from the
main menu. From there, all you
need to do is waiting for the
wireless signal to pick up in
both DS's and both players will
be in the waiting room. As for
the people who don't have Super
Mario 64 DS with them, have them
turn on their DS's at this time
and choose "DS Download Play"
from the DS main menu. Wait a
few seconds until the option to
download data from Super Mario
64 DS appears, then choose to
download it. Once the download
is finished, you will join the
room with your friends. When
everyone is ready, press the
start option at the bottom of
the screen to begin the
multiplayer match.

Alternatively, you can choose to
practice by yourself if you
choose the start button when
nobody else is around. Once you
push start, whether alone or
with others, you will be shown
four stages on which you can do
battle on. The goal of
mutliplayer is to be the one
with the most Stars when time is
up. There are five Stars in each
stage, and everybody's cap is
there. Everyone starts off as
Yoshi. If you get attacked, you
lose a Star you are holding. It
can then be collecting by
yourself again or anybody else
as it begins bouncing around the
stage. After the 30 second time
limit, whoever has the highest
amount of Stars wins!

================
~Castle Grounds~
================
As you would probably expect
from the name, you are fighting
on the grounds just outside of
Princess Peach's Castle. There
are five Stars to collect here,
however, they all appear one at
a time, and in different
locations to boot. The Wario Cap
can be found on top of a hedge
to the left of where you start.
The Luigi Cap is to the right of
where you start, next to the
cannon (which isn't open in this
mode). The Mario Cap is found
near the flower path to the
right of the castle.

The first Star will appear
inside of a Star Dome right
infront of Peach's Castle. Break
the dome to release the Star,
then quickly grab it before
somebody else does. The next
Star will appear on the map when
it's collecting. The second Star
is at the end of Chain Chomp's
chain. He is running along the
dirt path back and forth infront
of the castle. He should be
approaching you as you get the
first Star. The third Star will
appear in a Star Dome on top of
a tree next to the Mario Cap.
Get to the top of the tree, jump
into the dome, then grab the
Star quickly.

The fourth Star will appear
inside another Star Dome at the
center of the hedge maze close
to the start of the level.
Quickly run over there before
somebody else does so you can
collect the Star. The final Star
will appear near the cannon.
There's a moving platform over
there. Grab it and ride to the
Star Dome. After that, no more
Stars will appear. From here on
out, you can only get more Stars
by beating them out of your
foes. If you have three or more
Stars, you're guarenteed victory
if you don't lose any more
Stars, so run away from
everybody else until time runs
out.

================
~Sunshine Isles~
================
You will be battling in the same
area you had to collect several
Silver Stars in adventure mode.
Now, normal Stars will take
their place. The Mario, Luigi,
and Wario Caps are all found on
the island dead ahead of where
you start. The first Star is
also found in the Star Dome here
as well. The second Star will
appear on the island where you
started, behind the first Star.
Break the Star Dome and collect
the Star. The third Star will
appear near a large palm tree on
an island sticking out of the
water a distance away from the
island the second Star is on.
Break the Star Dome again and
grab it before anybody else
steals it from you.

The fourth Star will appear on a
small sandbar relatively close
to the island the third Star is
located. Break the Star Dome and
grab the Star. The final Star
will appear inside of a Star
Dome on top of the large island
at the center of the map. Hurry
over there before anyone else
does. No more Stars will appear
after this one, so you will need
to resort to fighting them out
of everybody else. There's a lot
of room in this level, so feel
free to make an all out brawl
for the Stars, or hide to save
yours.

=========================
~Princess's Secret Slide~
=========================
You will be competing on the
Secret Slide hidden within the
castle. The Mario, Luigi, and
Wario Caps are sitting right
infront of you when you start.
Also, the first Star is doing
the same. You only have time to
pick up one of these items, so
choose wisely. Star now, or Star
later? Quickly start heading
down the slide. The second Star
is in the middle of it. Jump to
reach it. Unlike the other
levels, all five Stars are
present at the beginning of the
level. Neat.

At the bottom of the slide is a
small room with the third,
fourth, and fifth Stars. It's
unlikely you will get more than
one of them, so just focus on
getting one. At this point,
everybody will be trapped in a
small room with no escape. It's
impossibly difficult to hide
from your foes, so even if you
are the Star leader you will
need to fight and breifly
disable your foes so you can
keep a firm grasp upon your
Stars. If you lose some, it's no
big deal. Everyone should reach
the bottom of the slide fairly
quickly, so there's plenty of
hits and Stars to go around and
obtain once again.

=============
~Battle Fort~
=============
Don't injure yourself too much
as you progress this painful
area. The Mario Cap lies ahead
of you. Fall to the bottom of
the level to find it. The Luigi
Cap is on top of a grey platform
to the right of where you find
the Mario Cap. The Wario Cap can
be found on top of another grey
platform, adjacent to the one
the Luigi Cap is on. The first
Star will appear in a Star Dome
on top of the pole in the center
of the level. Jump to it from
the pole and collecting the
bouncing Star. The second Star
will appear in one of the
corners of the level. Break the
Star Dome again and quickly
collect the Star. The third Star
will appear in the highest
corner of the level, inside
another Star Dome. If you are
Mario, you can hit the ! Block
here for a Wing Cap.

The fourth Star will appear in
another Star Dome in a corner
close to the one the third Star
was found at. Head over there
and collect the Star. The final
Star will appear near where some
of the bowling balls appear. Try
not to get injured as you make
your way over there. That is the
last Star in multiplayer mode.
The best place to fight for
Stars is in the center, where
all of the bowling balls travel.
Keep an eye on the balls, and
hopefully some of your foes will
be distracted and get hit by
one. Grab the Star that they
lose from getting hit.

--------------------------------
   ~XII.Well Known Glitches~
--------------------------------
If there is one thing the Super
Mario 64 DS isn't lacking in, it
sure is hell is glitches. There
is a metric crapload of glitches
that you can perform, ranging
from the extremely hard and
utterly pointless, to the major
sequence breaking glitches that
can be equally as frustrating,
but are actually useful, to
glitches that can perform some
amusement and generally aren't
too difficult to pull off. I
won't discuss every glitch here
as that would take far too long.
However, here are some glitches,
most of them pretty simple, that
are among the most well known
and overall pretty fun to
perform and experiment with. My
explaination may differ than
what most people would describe
to perform the glitch, but the
end result is the same. These
glitches are in no particular
course order.

======================
~Klepto Freeze Glitch~
======================
First off, you need to know
about the versions of the game.
There are several different
versions of Super Mario 64 DS.
There's version 1, version 2,
the European version, and the
Australian version. What's the
difference? Almost every glitch
is performable on version 1. The
rest of the versions have a
decent amount of glitches
removed from the game. How can
you tell which version you have?
By attempting the Klepto Freeze
Glitch. It's one of the easiest
glitches in the game.

Head to Shifting Sand Land on
the second Star or higher.
Choose any character, and head
over to the pillar Klepto flies
around. Pick up a Cap of any
other character. Now, when you
reach the pillar, pick up a box
and head over to Klepto. Stand
in one place. When Klepto dives
to try and steal your Cap, the
game should freeze and make a
weird sound. If it does, you
have version 1. If the glitch
doesn't occur (and your
character is knocked onto the
ground, loses the cap and grasp
of the box), then you have one
of the other versions of the
game. Simple as that. In the
following glitches I will make
note of any versions that can't
perform a certain glitch. Keep
this in mind!

================
~Heavens Portal~
================
Why this glitch occurs and how
it does so is beyond me.
Basically, you abuse part of a
level and the game shows an odd
looking screen, usually. Then
your character is seen falling
from the sky at an insane
height. It is pretty neat. Why
it happens, again, is difficult
to explain.

There are many Heavens Portals
that you can use in the game. I
can cover several of them,
usually the easiest or ones that
can get Stars differently. In
Bob-omb Battlefield, head over
to the area with a Koopa running
about. There is a cannon
stationed nearby him. Jump into
it and aim at the island so that
the crosshair is at the very
bottom point of the island. If
you do this right, fire and hold
up. You will be shot pretty low,
hit the ground, then fly up high
into the air and start to fly
down. Sometimes when you do this
glitch your character will be
ejected so high that they will
cross over the invisible wall
and fall out of the level,
resulting in their death. Pretty
nifty.

Another Heavens Portal is in
Shifting Sand Land. You should
know that there are four pillars
in the level. As anybody other
than Yoshi, head to one of the
pillars and run up the side.
When you are close to the top,
perform a dive. You should fall
through the pillar, and the
screen will turn blue. You will
then see your character falling
down several seconds later. Be
sure not to fall into any
quicksand when performing this
glitch!

Another Heavens Portal you can
perform is in the room with the
entrance to Tick Tock Clock and
Rainbow Ride. There are stairs
leading to the Big Star Door.
Get on the second of these
steps. Look at the corner of the
stair that is touching the wall.
Line yourself up at a slight
angle between you and the
corner. Take a few steps back,
then hold Y to charge up a
sprint. Dash breifly in the
direction of the wall, and a
split second before hitting it,
do a slide kick and hold up and
left. If done correctly, you
will be shot high in the room
and can even land in the area
with the entrance to Bowser in
the Sky. With this you can beat
the game as any character, and
do it without 80 Stars! If you
are unlucky, you will get the
Hells Portal result. If you get
that, you will be high above the
room, but you will be slide
kicking endlessly. If you jump,
you will die.

There are plenty of other
Heavens Portals, but those are
just a few of which you can
easily experiment with on your
own.

===================
~Quickly Get 1-Ups~
===================
Remember how in Super Mario 64
that you got 100 lives for
collecting all 120 Stars? That
reward was taken out of this
game, but it is still pretty
easy to obtain the maxmium 100
lives. Head to Whomp's Fortress.
Enter the level as Luigi (or get
his Cap) and choose a Star past
the first one. You need to be
able to obtain a certain item
within the level. At the base of
the stairway where there are
several Thwomp's, you should see
two orange boxes. Break them and
collect the Mushroom that
appears out of one of them to
turn huge. There is a teleport
location nearby. It is where the
large wall and the gated fence
meet. Walk over to it and warp
to a higher point of the
fortress. Head over to the ledge
with the tower on it and jump,
holding the jump button (this
must be done) so you can grab
onto the ledge and pull yourself
up.

Now, walk over to the wooden
plank. Lightly tap one of the
sides of it (the thin areas, not
the front of the plank) and you
will discover that your lives
will increase at an absurd rate.
They max at at 100, however.
It's unlikely that you will ever
need that many lives, but this
is still a pretty neat trick.
Sadly, this glitch is only
available in version 1.

===========================
~Flooding Whomp's Fortress~
===========================
Is Whomp's Fortress too boring
for you? Why not fill it with
invisible water and swim around
for a little while? It's fun!
Choose the first Star of the
course and work your way up to
King Whomp. Challenge him and
head over to one of the edges.
When King Whomp falls, jump
where his crown is going to be.
This is insanely difficult to
judge. If you ever happen to do
it correctly, you will fall down
pretty quickly and will
eventually start to swim. You
can now swim freely in Whomp's
Fortress, or at least until you
run out of air. You can access
the cannon and get Blast Away
the Star, or you can swim up to
the Caged Island and get the
Star there. Or, just plain screw
around in the level. You're
swimming in mid-air for goodness
sake!

================================
~Underwater Walking in Jolly
Rodger Bay~
================================
This is an interesting way to
walk underwater indefinitely in
Jolly Rodge Bay. First, choose
the first Star of the course.
Start as any character you want
to. Make your way to the cavern
underwater. When you get there,
grab the Wario Cap if you aren't
already playing as him, then get
a Power Flower from the Red ?
Block nearby. Run back into the
water and head to the sunken
ship. Run up the deck and over
the bow of it, and you should
start sliding down the front of
the ship. Once the Power Flower
runs out, if done correctly, you
should be able to freely walk
around Jolly Rodger Bay,
underwater, with no health
restraints. Go crazy. There
isn't much to do underwater, as
you will quickly find out.

================================
~Underwater Walking in Dire Dire
Docks~
================================
This glitch is only possible
when Bowser's Submarine is still
docked in one area of the
course. Obviously, choose the
first Star for this glitch. Head
over to the submarine. At the
back of it you will find two
fins sticking out near the
propeller of the submarine. They
are just above the water. Swim
under them, then jump out of the
water and hit them. When you are
breifly out of the water, do a
Ground Pound. If you did this
correctly, then you will quickly
fall to the bottom of bay and
will be able to walk underwater.
You can grab the Through the Jet
Stream Star if you wish, or the
Inside the Cage Star if you are
invisible (as opposed to doing
that Star when swimming).

===============================
~The Dry Pipe in Wet-Dry World~
===============================
When you are downtown, and have
lowered the water level, ever
wonder what the town would look
like if you went back? To
perform this, simple head over
to the downtown area. Lower the
water level to the bottom and
make sure you are Mario. Grab
the Power Flower and head back
to the pipe you had to swim
through. Get near it, and when
the Power Flower's effects are
about to end, float above it. As
you are falling you should be
able to squeeze through the
pipe. Once you reach the town
and the metal cage again, wall
kick your way up. Near the top,
you will start to swim. Now,
head back down the cage and into
the pipe. The water will vanish
halfway there and you will start
walking again. Pretty nifty
trick.

=============================
~Keep Ukiki in Yoshi's Mouth~
=============================
You've probably met Ukiki on
Tall Tall Mountain before, and
you probably hate him as well.
In this glitch, go to the area
where Ukiki is about halfway up
the mountain. Perform a jump
backwards and use the flutter
jump and aim for the water
behind you. Before you land in
it, grab Ukiki with your tongue.
When you reach the bottom of the
waterfall, you will be walking
around with your mouth full. If
you go back to the point where
you gobbled him up, his text box
will appear and Ukiki will
appear infront of you. You can
also try spitting him out, but
you just spit out nothing. This
glitch is only possible in
version 1. Version 2 and the
European versions need to use a
different method of achieving
this glitch.

===========================
~Inside the Other Aquarium~
===========================
Head into the room with the
entrance to Jolly Rodger Bay. To
the right of the painting is are
several flowers on the wall, and
several aquariums. The diagonal
squares on the ground point to
one of the flowers. Line
yourself up with this flower at
the same angle. Run at the
flower and do a Triple Jump and
a Dive in the air into the wall.
If done properly, you should be
standing in the ceiling. If you
walk forward a little, you will
fall and die. Do so, but when
falling head right. You should
land behind the aquarium. You
are trapped back here if you do
this glitch, so you must quit
the game to escape.

================================
~Get on the Roof Without 150
Stars~
================================
In order to perform the next
glitch (The Uberglitch) you need
to be able to access to Castle's
roof right away. How can you do
that without accessing the
cannon's? Well, it isn't all
that difficult. These are the
general methods to be used for
any character. They are well
known by most people, but some
probably have never heard of it
being possible. If you can't do
this with any character right
away, don't give up. It is a
difficult trick to master for
some people, so just keep
practicing.

For Yoshi, head to the left of
the Castle. Near the waterfall
pouring next to the castle is a
brown fence. Get to the very end
of the fence, on the far left.
You can land on a small area of
grass with a Flutter Jump. It's
location is hard to describe, so
trial and error may be needed.
Once you manage to find this
location, Flutter Jump onto the
waterfall. As you start sliding
down, perform another Flutter
Jump onto a small hill of grass
at the corner of the castle,
next to a hill. You can spot it
from the fence where you start
this trick. From here, have
Yoshi's back face the hill.
Jump, hold back on the D-Pad to
move Yoshi up the hill, and do a
Flutter Jump. Keep repeating
this process as you make your
way up the hill slowly.
Eventually you will be high
enough so that the next Flutter
Jump can be made to reach the
edge of the Castle. Do so and
viola, you are on top of the
castle. Pretty neat.

For Mario, jump into the moat
and head to the right of the
castle. Up the ramp leading out
of the moat are two of the
castle's walls that are
conveniently placed right next
to each other. Mario's method of
reaching the pinnacle of the
castle is by Wall Kicking his
way up there. It is easiest if
he starts Wall Kicking from the
left wall, not the right,
generally due to camera issues
that ensue from starting with
the right wall. You need to
begin Wall Kicking at the
perfect angle, otherwise you
won't be able to Wall Kick from
the other wall and you will just
fall back down to the ground.
There isn't any possible way of
describing the kind of angle you
need to pull this off, so keep
on trying. Eventually you will
be able to Wall Kick
continuously, and better yet you
will reach the top of the
Casltle. Make sure it is from
the right wall that you kick off
of onto the top of the castle.
Wall Kicking from the left wall
near the top will likely result
in you overshooting the roof,
falling to the ground, and
forcing you to repeat the entire
process over again.

Luigi has the easiest time
performing this trick. Head back
to the area where you had Yoshi
jump up to the castle roof. See
the hill you had to continuously
Flutter Jump backwards on? Use
Luigi's backflip twirl to reach
this hill with the most of ease,
without having to use the
waterfall method (which is
borderline impossible when you
do it with Luigi). Now, instead
of Flutter Kicking his way up
the hill, Luigi needs to Scuttle
Jump his way backwards and up
the hill. It is pretty much the
same difficulty that Yoshi had
going up the hill. Once Luigi
reaches a certain point near the
top of the hill, he will no
longer be able to use his
Scuttle Jump to keep going up
the hill. At this point, he will
need to jump to the castle's
roof. It is slightly difficult,
but entirely possible. Once you
are on the roof, you can capture
Luigi's mini-game rabbit much
earlier than normally intended.

Wario probably has the hardest
time of all. His method, or so
I've heard, is possible with any
character. It's just the only
one Wario is capable of using.
I've only done this trick once
and it is totally hard to
describe. Head to the right side
of the castle, near the large
hill near the back end of it.
From the tree closest to the
hill, head slightly left of it,
and face the hill. Start running
towards the hill and perform a
Triple Jump. Keep holding
forward on the D-Pad the entire
time, of course. As soon as your
feet touch the hill, perform a
slide kick before you begin to
slide down the slope. Then, jump
to get out of this pose and gain
a little height up the slope.
When you touch down again,
perform yet another slide kick.
The idea is to keep on
performing slide kicks and jumps
up the hill until you are
eventually level with the
castle, at which point you
should make your last ditch jump
for the castle roof. If you
hopefully managed to do it
successfully, then good job. It
is a difficult trick to pull
off. But at least you got Wario
on the roof!

================
~The Uberglitch~
================
The Uberglitch is what is
required to use in order to
begin the Uberquest. Firstly,
you need to get to the top of
the castle. For the Uberquest,
you should be Yoshi when doing
this so get up there using his
own method. Once there, look for
the small area of grass right
next to the waterfall. Once you
located it, run there and
perform a slide kick into it. If
done properly, you will fall
down, bob a little bit, and then
fall through the moat's water
and you will be capable of
walking underwater. Yes, it is
possible from here to enter the
door underwater and enter the
basement. That's what makes this
the Uberquest. Can you get
enough Stars down here to beat
Bowser in the Fire Sea before
you come anywhere near beating
Bowser in the Dark World? Hell,
Bowser in the Dark World isn't
even necessary to enter if you
do everything correctly. Pretty
near glitch. However, it is
quite difficult to perform and
since it takes a decent amount
of effort to reach the top of
the castle, you could be stuck
doing this for a long time.

--------------------------------
  ~XIII.Secrets of the Castle~
--------------------------------
There are many secrets to the
Castle you may not know about.
Here I will cover them all.

================================
~Activating Solid ? Red Blocks~
================================
Simply enough, you have probably
seen in many courses that there
are transparent red ? Blocks.
These contain Power Flowers and
in some cases a Feather for
Mario once the block is hit, but
they need to be solid first.
Once you have collected at least
14 Stars, there will be a
shining ray of light shining
down onto a Sun Picture in the
Castle's Lobby. You need to go
to the painting as Mario. As
Mario, go into 1st person view
and look up at where the clouds
are shining from.

You will be transported to Tower
of the ? Switch. Simple thing to
do here really. Mario will
automatically start with the
Wing Cap. Simply fly down to the
center tower, where there is a
large ? Red Switch. Simply jump
on it, and every ? red Block
will now be solid. Your mission
here is completed, so jump off
the side to exit the world.

================================
        ~Lower the Moat~
================================
In order to lower the moat and
obtain another 2 Power Stars,
head into the basement of the
Castle anytime you've defeated
the first Bowser in the Dark
World. Once in the basement,
walk left at the split then take
another left once you get to it.
You will appear near a wooden
door. Head through it to find a
pool. Jump into the pool and
swim over to the other side.
There appears to be nothing
here, save 2 columns sticking
above the water. Funny how they
are the solution to our problem.
In order to drain the moat you
simply need to Ground Pound both
of these pillars with any
character. You will hear a noise
and then the water will begin to
lower. Walk through the revealed
door to enter the moat.

There isn't anything of intrest
you can really do in the moat.
Just a black brick in one
corner. Once you unlock Wario
you are able to break this and
it will reveal a hole leading to
a secret level. There are 2
Power Stars in this level. One
by collecting all 8 Red Coins,
and the other requires Balloon
Mario to float over to a Star
Switch. Go ahead and collect
both whenever you want to.

================================
       ~Unlocking Mario~
================================
Mario has been trapped inside
the Castle and it is up to Yoshi
to rescue him. Mario's Key is
being held by Goomboss right now
so you need to recover the Key
from him. Once you have at least
8 Stars, enter the middle door
in the Character Room. This
leads to the Rec-Room which has
an 8 Star Door inside. Open it
up to be in a small room with a
Mario painting. Obviously, you
should jump inside.

Once your inside, you need to
jump inside the hole at the big
red X on your map. That is the
warp to Goomboss. This whole
stage seems really big, but it's
only like that for the Red Coins
Star. Getting to Goomboss
shouldn't take more than a
minute or two. From the start,
head down the ramp and head
across the moving platforms.
From here you will see several
logs infront of you head up and
down into the poison gas. Jump
onto them when they are low but
going up and quickly make your
way across. The poison purple
gas slowly damages you if you
stay in it too long. Ouch.
Continue along the easy path and
jump over a Pirhana Plant until
you reach a vine like pole.
Climb it to the top (The Lakitu
circling you can't damage you so
don't worry). At the top, run
across the tall bridge, avoiding
the Goombas, and jump into the
big hole once you reach it.

You will appear infront of
Goomboss. He will laugh at
Yoshi's pathetic attempt to grab
his Key. The trick to beating
Goomboss is hitting him in the
back three times. Because Yoshi
can't punch, your going to need
to use the Goombas that trot
behind him. Run around the
platform (Or shortcut through
the poison gas) until you're
behind Goomboss. Eat a Goomba
and make it an Egg. Throw it and
it will kill the other Goombas
and hit Goomboss. Repeat this
easy process two more times and
you will have won. Grab Mario's
Key to exit the level.

================================
       ~Unlocking Luigi~
================================
Luigi is like his fellow
comrades, as he's been trapped
inside the Castle and Mario or
Wario needs to save him. Oh boy.
Luigi's Key is being held by
none other than King Boo. What a
laugh. You need access to Big
Boo's Haunt to rescue Luigi. In
order to get there you need at
least 15 Stars. So hurry up and
get them! In Big Boo's Haunt,
you need to find Luigi's
painting. Its on the third floor
of the mansion. To reach it,
head onto the second floor and
take the door furthest on the
right. Stand on top of the ? Red
Block and do a Backflip to land
near a door above the ground. Go
through it. You're right next to
Luigi's painting, so go through.

This level is a bit of a maze.
The map is useless here. When
you start you'll be put on a
smaller version of Big Boo's
Merry Go Round. Don't move
anywhere yet! There are 4 doors
in each room in this maze. 3
doors lead back to where your
standing and the other leads to
the next room. In order to reach
the final room, take the doors
in this order:right, left,
right, straight, left. This will
put you in the final room.
Getting here is a challenge
itself though. You need to jump
over pits, enemies, and some
hidden blocks to reach the doors
you need to progress. Falling
into a bottomless pit returns
you to the start of the maze.
This is probably going to get
annoying really fast if you're
not good. The final room has a
really long collapsible bridge
leading to some moving platform
which goto the top of the room,
where the warp hole is.

You will drop into an empty room
with a mirror. Head up to the
Mirror and wait there a few
seconds. Your reflection turns
into Luigi! King Boo will appear
and you two will face off. Beat
him like normal Big Boo. Three
Ground Pounds kill him. The
thing is, he is sometimes on the
mirror side of the room so look
at the refection and pretend
your playing Luigi so the battle
is made easier. Once you hit him
3 times he will drop the Key and
leave. Pick up Luigi's Key and
get out of here.

================================
       ~Unlocking Wario~
================================
Luigi, like Mario and Wario, is
trapped inside a room in the
Castle. His Key is being guarded
by Chief Chilly and its up to
Luigi to get it back. You need
at least 30 Power Stars to enter
the Big Star Door in the
basement, one more from Dire
Dire Docks, and then beat Bowser
in the Fire Sea to gain access
to the second floor of the
Castle. Once you're on the
second floor head into the
Mirror Room as Luigi (The one
with the Snowman's Land painting
in it). Power Flowers will be in
this room only if Luigi is
inside. Grab one and run through
the Mirror. You can head through
the door on the other side for a
Power Star, or head to the right
and jump right into the Wario
painting. It's up to you what
you do.

In this snowy world, you once
again need to reach the warp
hole at the big red X on your
map. Getting there is the tough
part. Head down the slide at the
beginning and it will drop you
into the abyss. Luckily, a gust
of wind comes and blows you over
to land near some Bullies.
Quickly get up and run across
several platforms to the left.
Avoid the next Bully and ride a
platform over the gap on the
right. Run to the right some
more and jump off the cliff. A
huge gust of wind will blow you
high into the air and then drop
you off into a pool of cold
water. Quickly get out before it
starts damaging you! Jump over
the fence and run past a group
of Bullies to reach moving giant
ice cubes. Jump or run over them
carefully once they are in good
positions to reach the other
side of the field. From here,
stairs are popping in and out of
the wall. Jump up them once they
are out of the walls. At the top
jump into the warp hole.

You will appear on a small
platform surrounded by freezing
waters. Chief Chilly is mocking
your mustache and it's time for
him to pay! The key to defeating
him is just like a Big Bully-
push him into the waters and he
dies. However, you need to do
this three times. Each time you
push him in the water, the arena
gets smaller. Once he's down to
his last hit, and you push Chief
Chilly to the edge of the arena,
he will dangle on the edge for a
few seconds. You need to hit him
again to win the level. Pick up
Wario's Key to exit the stage.

================================
         ~Secret Slide~
================================
In the character room, turn to
the right when you enter to see
a glass portrait of Peach. Jump
inside it to enter the Secret
Slide. You're able to pick up 2
Power Stars here. Well worth it.

================================
       ~Secret Aquarium~
================================
In the room with the picture of
Jolly Rodger Bay, head to the
painting and turn around. Above
the floor on the walls are 2
holes. The one on the left leads
to the Secret Aquarium. The
Secret Aquarium holds another
Power Star ready for you to
earn.

================================
        ~Cannon Secret~
================================
Most of you have probably
noticed a Cannon outside of the
Castle covered by a grating so
you can't use it. In order to
actually use the Cannon you must
collect all 150 Power Stars in
the game. You can then access
the Castle Roof (Without any
tricks) easily.

================================
 ~Behind the Waterfall Cavern~
================================
There is a secret level behind
the Castle's Waterfall. You can
access it from Hazy Maze Cave.
Make your way to the underground
cavern where Dorrie resides and
get on top of him. Ride her over
to a small platform with double
doors on it. Get off and head
through the doors until you
reach a pool of some metallic
liquid. Jump inside to be
transported to the Secret Behind
the Waterfall. There are 2 Power
Stars here-the Red Coin Star and
a Star high above the ground.

================================
   ~Over the Rainbows Secret~
================================
On the third floor of the Castle
there are 2 holes in the wall.
One leads to Rainbow Ride and
the other leads to a secret
level with nothing but many
clouds and Cannons. You need to
use Mario's Wing Cap to grab all
8 Red Coins strewn about the
secret. Another Star is also
hidden well here. Can you find
it?

================================
         ~Fat Penguin~
================================
The penguin you race in Cool
Cool Mountain can be made extra
fat once you obtain all 150
Power Stars. The fat penguin is
a bit harder to beat than the
thinner version.

--------------------------------
   ~IXV.Maximum Coin Counts~
--------------------------------
The dreaded 100 Coin Star lurks
every main course, but there's
something more difficult than
that. Getting the maximum amount
of coins in each world. It is
possible, yes, and each world
does have its own maximum
values. However, a certain trick
will need to be used in several
courses in order reach the
highest amount possible.

It's the Yoshi Egg Combo Trick.
You've probably noticed after
using Yoshi's Egg Attack several
times that after hitting an
enemy, the Egg homes in on the
next closest enemy if one is
nearby. You can abuse this in
your favor. Get as many enemies
as possible nearby eachother,
then release the Egg. Instead of
getting one coin, the fourth or
fifth enemy will produce a Blue
Coin instead of a normal coin.
Generally, only one Egg Combo is
possible on several levels. One
level has three possible combos,
another has four combos, and the
remaining levels have no
possible combos (or no combos
that will yield Blue Coins).
Here are the maximum coin
counts:

Bob-omb Battlefield - 229
Whomp's Fortress - 214
Jolly Roger Bay - 140
Cool, Cool Mountain - 255
Hazy Maze Cave - 207
Big Boo's Haunt - 160
Lethal Lava Land - 215
Shifting Sand Land - 196
Dire, Dire Docks - 147
Snowman's Land - 255
Wet-Dry World - 158
Tall, Tall Mountain - 226
Tiny-Huge Island - 255
Tick Tock Clock - 137
Rainbow Ride - 255

You will need to use an Egg
Combo in Bob-omb Battlefield,
Whomp's Fortress, and Tall Tall
Mountain. Three Egg Combos are
necessary in Shifting Sand Land,
and four combos are necessary in
Hazy Maze Cave. The rest of the
courses you don't need to use
Egg Combos in to reach the
maximum. Any course with 255
possible either has a glitch to
cause coins to reappear, or has
a Lakitu in it. With the Lakitu,
you can turn a Spiny into an egg
and throw it at a wall for a
coin. Repeat ad infinum until
you max out the coin counter.

--------------------------------
~XV.Complete 150 Star Checklist~
--------------------------------
You can use this checklist to
keep track of which Stars you
have and those that you still
need to collect.

[ ] Bob-omb Battlefield
    [ ] Star 1-Big Bob-omb on th
    [ ] Star 2-Footrace with Koo
    [ ] Star 3-5 Silver Stars!
    [ ] Star 4-Big Bob-omb's Rev
    [ ] Star 5-Mario Wing to the
    [ ] Star 6-Find the 8 Red Co
    [ ] Star 7-Behind Chain Chom
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Whomp's Fortress
    [ ] Star 1-Chip Off Whomp's 
    [ ] Star 2-To the Top of the
    [ ] Star 3-Shoot Into the Wi
    [ ] Star 4-Red Coins on the 
    [ ] Star 5-Fall Onto the Cag
    [ ] Star 6-Blast Away the Wa
    [ ] Star 7-Switch Star of th
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Jolly Rodger Bay
    [ ] Star 1-Plunder in the Su
    [ ] Star 2-Can the Eel Come 
    [ ] Star 3-Treasure in the O
    [ ] Star 4-Blast to the Ston
    [ ] Star 5-Red Coins on the 
    [ ] Star 6-Switch Star of th
    [ ] Star 7-Through the Jet S
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Cool, Cool Mountain
    [ ] Star 1-Slip Slidin' Away
    [ ] Star 2-Li'l Penguin Lost
    [ ] Star 3-Big Penguin Race
    [ ] Star 4-Frosty Slide for 
    [ ] Star 5-Snowman Lost His 
    [ ] Star 6-Mario's Super Wal
    [ ] Star 7-Switch Star of Co
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Big Boo's Haunt
 [ ] Star 1-Go on a Ghost Hunt
    [ ] Star 2-Ride Big Boo's Me
    [ ] Star 3-Secret of the Hau
    [ ] Star 4-Seek the 8 Red Co
    [ ] Star 5-Big Boo's Balcony
    [ ] Star 6-Eye to Eye in the
    [ ] Star 7-Switch Star in th
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Hazy Maze Cave
    [ ] Star 1-Swimming Beast in
    [ ] Star 2-Elevate for 8 Red
    [ ] Star 3-Metal-Head Wario 
    [ ] Star 4-Navigating the To
    [ ] Star 5-A-Maze-Ing Emerge
    [ ] Star 6-Watch Out for Fal
    [ ] Star 7-Underground Switc
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Lethal Lava Land
 [ ] Star 1-Boil the Big Bully
    [ ] Star 2-Bully the Bullies
    [ ] Star 3-8-Coin Puzzle wit
    [ ] Star 4-Red-Hot Log Rolli
    [ ] Star 5-Hot-Foot-It into 
    [ ] Star 6-Inside the Volcan
    [ ] Star 7-Flaming Silver St
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Shifting Sand Land
    [ ] Star 1-In the Talons of 
    [ ] Star 2-Shining Atop the 
    [ ] Star 3-Inside the Ancien
    [ ] Star 4-Stand Tall on the
    [ ] Star 5-Tox Box Switch St
    [ ] Star 6-Pyramid Puzzle
    [ ] Star 7-Free Flying for R
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Dire Dire Docks
 [ ] Star 1-Board Bowser's Sub
[ ] Star 2-Chests in the Current
    [ ] Star 3-Pole-Jumping for 
    [ ] Star 4-Through the Jet S
    [ ] Star 5-Koopa Surfin' Swi
    [ ] Star 6-Inside the Cage
    [ ] Star 7-The Manta Ray's R
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Snowman's Land
 [ ] Star 1-Snowman's Big Head
[ ] Star 2-Chill With the Bully
[ ] Star 3-Yoshi's Ice Sculpture
    [ ] Star 4-Whirl from the Fr
    [ ] Star 5-Snowman's Silver 
    [ ] Star 6-Into the Igloo
    [ ] Star 7-Red Coins in the 
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Wet-Dry World
[ ] Star 1-Shocking Arrow Lifts!
    [ ] Star 2-Top O' the Town
    [ ] Star 3-5 Secrets in the 
    [ ] Star 4-Express Elevator-
    [ ] Star 5-Go to Town for Re
    [ ] Star 6-Quick Race Throug
    [ ] Star 7-Soaked Silver Sta
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Tall Tall Mountain
 [ ] Star 1-Scale the Mountain
    [ ] Star 2-Mystery of the Mo
    [ ] Star 3-Scary 'Shrooms, R
    [ ] Star 4-Mysterious Mounta
    [ ] Star 5-Blast to the Lone
    [ ] Star 6-5 Secrets of the 
    [ ] Star 7-Breathtaking View
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Tiny-Huge Island
    [ ] Star 1-Pluck the Pirhana
    [ ] Star 2-To the Tip-Top of
    [ ] Star 3-Rematch with Koop
    [ ] Star 4-Klepto the Vultur
    [ ] Star 5-Wiggler's Red Coi
    [ ] Star 6-Make Wiggler Squi
    [ ] Star 7-Switch Star of th
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Tick Tock Clock
    [ ] Star 1-Luigi in the Cage
    [ ] Star 2-The Pendulam Swit
    [ ] Star 3-Get a Hand
    [ ] Star 4-Stomp on the Thwo
    [ ] Star 5-Timed Jumps on Mo
    [ ] Star 6-Stop Time for Red
    [ ] Star 7-Tick Tock Silver 
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Rainbow Ride
    [ ] Star 1-Cruiser Crossing 
    [ ] Star 2-The Big House in 
    [ ] Star 3-Coins Amassed in 
    [ ] Star 4-Swingin' in the B
    [ ] Star 5-Tricky Triangles!
    [ ] Star 6-Somewhere Over th
    [ ] Star 7-Switch Star of th
    [ ] Star 8-Collect 100 Coins

[ ] Castle Secret Stars
    [ ] Star 1-The Princess's Se
    [ ] Star 2-Princess's Secret
    [ ] Star 3-Sunshine Isles
    [ ] Star 4-The Secret Aquari
    [ ] Star 5-8 Red Coins in Go
    [ ] Star 6-Wall Kick Switch 
    [ ] Star 7-Red Coins in the 
    [ ] Star 8-Silver Stars in t
    [ ] Star 9-8 Red Coins Hidde
    [ ] Star 10-8 Red Coins in t
    [ ] Star 11-Red Coins Hidden
    [ ] Star 12-Luigi's Quick Sp
    [ ] Star 13-8 Red Coins Behi
    [ ] Star 14-Mario's Balloon 
    [ ] Star 15-8 Red Coins on M
    [ ] Star 16-Mario's Balloon 
    [ ] Star 17-Switch Star; Sta
    [ ] Star 18-A Kind Power Sta
    [ ] Star 19-8 Red Coins With
    [ ] Star 20-Long Jump and Fa
    [ ] Star 21-A Suspicious Mir
    [ ] Star 22-8 Red Coins Hidd
    [ ] Star 23-Blown Away Secre
    [ ] Star 24-Another Kind Gif
    [ ] Star 25-Another Gift? Wh
    [ ] Star 26-Red Coins Over t
    [ ] Star 27-Secret Brick Som
    [ ] Star 28-8 Red Coins Floa
    [ ] Star 29-Mario's Switch S
    [ ] Star 30-Mystery Door in 

--------------------------------
         ~XVI.Credits~
--------------------------------
CJayC-For hosting this FAQ and
the greatest gaming site evar

Me-I created this FAQ didn't I?

You-You read the FAQ!

Nintendo-For allowing me to once
again play the classic I love

Mike OShay-For tips on how to
get some Stars using glitches

Super Slash-For glitch advice I
covered

LinkDarkArrows, Swordless Link,
and BWGgy-For giving me the
maximum coin counts on all of
the courses

Many other users-For E-mailing
me about an easier way to get
Switch Star in the Basement

BranBranMB@aol.com-Gave me
additional hints on a Star

This Walkthrough is Copyright
Deathborn 668. All rights
reserved.