The World Ends With You
Walkthrough/FAQ v1.0

--- Introduction --- [intro1] --

The World Ends With You is an
experimental new IP developed by
Square Enix and Jupiter
Corporation. With the concepts
for both the story and art
designed by Tetsuya Nomura, the
game is highly stylized, and
clearly heavily influenced by
anime. Thankfully though, the
game is rather lacking in belts
and zippers.

Set in Japan's trendy Shibuya
district, The World Ends With
You has you play as Neku
Sakabura, an anti-social boy who
wakes up in the middle of the
street with nothing but his
cellphoen, a bunch of pins, and
the clothes on his back. Without
his memories, invisible to the
world, and witht he ability to
read minds, Neku finds himself
trapped in a deadly game where
the prize is his right to exist,
and that of the friends he will
meet.

Being an aRPG with character
designs similar to those of
Kingdom Hearts, The World Ends
With You had received a lot of
criticism for being too similar
to the highly successful Square
Enix franchise. This comparison
is rather unfair, as while the
gameplay of Kingdom Hearts
follows your typical aRPG
formula, that of The World Ends
With You uses the unique Stride
Cross battle system to have the
combat take place on both of the
DS's screens at once.

What The World Ends With You
does have in common with Kingdom
Hearts is high review scores and
popularity. Averaging around a
90% from all major review sites
and magazines, and having its
board reach Pokemon Diamond's
level before the game was even
released, The World Ends With
You looks to be a huge success
in the making.

--- Table of Contents ---

Introduction [intro1]
Table of Contents
Version History [hist1]
Controls [ctrl1]
Concepts [cncpt1]
Walkthrough [wlkthr1]
Acknowledgements/Policy [polc1]

--- Version History --- [hist1]

1.0 - April 29, 2008 - Main
      walkthrough completed.

--- Controls --- [ctrl1]

- Exploration -

Movement - To move Neku, use the
d-pad or the latter buttons. You
may also use the stylus. Touch a
spot to have Neku move there or
drag the stylus to have Neku
follow it.

Menu - Touch the cellphone icon
in the top right corner with the
stylus or press start to open
the menu.

Scan - Touch the pin icon in the
bottom right corner with the
stylus to scan your
surroundings.

Talk/Listen - When a speech
bubble pops up near a characters
head, touch it with the stylus
in order to talk to them or
listen in on their
conversations.

Advance Text - Use the d-pad,
letter buttons, or the stylus to
advance text during
conversations.

Fast Forward - Press L or R to
fast forward through text in
conversations. This is only
available after completing the
game once.

Shop - To enter a shop, simply
move Neku toward it.

Purchase - If the requirements
to purchase an item are met, use
the stylus to drag is to the box
labelled 'buy'.

Identify Ability - If an item is
identified by the shopkeeper who
sells it, select it in the store
when you're a good enough friend
with the owner. If not, the item
will automatically be identifed
when you enter the correct
shopkeeper at a high enough
store level.

- Combat -

Top Screen Attack - To attack
with the top screen character,
use the d-pad or the letter
buttons.

Bottom Screen Attack - To attack
with Neku, input the stylus
commands as specified in the
pin's description.

Toggle Pins - To allow the game
to tell between two attacks with
the same input command, press L
or R to activate pins you have
assigned to them.

Fusion - To use a fusion attack,
touch the fusion icon with the
stylus when it appears on the
bottom screen.

Pause/Flee - To pause, press
start. When paused, you have the
option of fleeing from most
battles by touching the flee
option with the stylus.

--- Concepts --- [cncpt1]

Noise - Noise are the enemies in
The World Ends With You. There
are some enemies whol are not
actually noise, but they are
called such for the sake of
simplicity. There are many types
of noise.

Red Noise - These are generic
noise, and if you touch them
when scanning, an encounter will
begin.

Black(Taboo) Noise - These are
similar to the red noise, but
they will attack you on their
own during a scan. They also do
not take much damage unless the
attacker has the light puck.

Blue(Boss) Noise - These are
similar to red noise, but they
are in fixed locations and will
always have the same boss appear
in each location.

Orange Noise - These are noise
who have been attracted by a
person's negativity, and makes
them even more negative. In
terms of battle they are no
different from red noise.
Defeating them typically clears
up the person's negativity and
breaks the feedback loop.

Green(Pig) Noise - If a green
noise is in any area, their
symbol will appear in the top
right. Also, you will hear an
"oink" when you scan. They run
from battles quickly, but they
give good rewards if you manage
to defeat them before they do.
They are in fixed locations, and
once they have been defeated,
they are permanently gone.

Light Puck - The green orb that
floats around the playable
characters is called the light
puck. The character with the
light puck does more damage than
usual. The light puck switches
between characters after the
character with it finishes a
combo.

Scanning - Scanning allows you
to see noise, as well as the
thoughts of non-players/reapers.

Store Levels - Buying things
from a store increases your
friendliness with the
shopkeeper. As the friendliness
goes up, they will sell more
things and identify more items.

Ability Identifcation - All
equippable items have special
abilities that must be unlocked
before they apply in battle.
This is done by befriending
shopkeepers and having them
identify the abilities for you.

Quest Items - Some items cannot
be bought with yen. For these,
you will need to trade in items
to obtain them. Red quest items
can only be obtained once, while
blue ones can be repeatedly
obtained.

Bravery - Bravery is your
capacity to wear equipment. Each
equip has a bravery value that
must be met. The maximum bravery
is 999.

Level Adjusting - In the menu,
you have the option to change
your level to anything equal to
or below the maximum level you
have earned. Lowering your level
will make fights more difficult,
but drop rates increase as a
result.

Difficulty Modes - The game has
multiple difficulty modes that
you can unlock as you progress
through it. Defeating enemies on
different difficulty modes
yields different pin drops.

Brands - Each pin and piece of
equipment has a brand. These
brands determine the bonuses you
receive in battle, and each
brand has a pin that increases
the attack of other pins of the
same brand.

Trends - Each area has its own
take on which brands are trendy
and which are not. These brands
receive bonuses in combat
according to where they lie in
the trends.

Trend changing - By using
pins/equipment of a certain
brand in combat, that brand
becomes more trendy in the area
you're fihgting in, and more
effective as a result.

Memes - Memes are words you'll
hear throughout the game that
are used for imprinting.

Imprinting - Imprinting is when
you place a word in a person's
mind, changing their actions asa
result. It is used to progress
through certain story events.

Psyches - Psyches are the
classes of the various pins.
There are limits on how many
pins of a certain psyche you may
use at once.

Pins - Pins are a type of
equipment only Neku can wear,
and they determine the
attacks/spells/abilities he uses
in battle.

Pin levels - Equipped pins will
gain PP when you do various
things, and when they get
enough, they will level,
increasing their effectiveness.

Pin evolution - Some pins, when
they get enough PP of a certain
type, will evolve into stronger
pins.

Battle PP - PP gained by wearing
a pin in battle. The main type
of PP.

Shutdown PP - PP gained by
equipped pins after having the
game shut down for a period of
time.

Mingle PP - Mingle PP is gained
by playing Tin Pin Slammer with
other people who own The World
Ends With You, or by having the
game in Mingle mode.

--- Walkthrough --- [wlkthr1]

Search format - ["c""Chapter
number""d""Day number"]

For example, day one is [c1d1].

- Shiki Day 1 - [c1d1]

When you first gain control,
press the pin icon in the bottom
right corner to scan. You'll
find yourself in a battle. You
can't fight right now, so press
start and flee. Some plot will
happen, and you will meet your
partner, Shiki. When you regain
control, pay attention to the
instructions and fight the
battles. You can't possibly lose
these fights, so take your time
getting used to the controls.
After you've finished fighting
the noise, head right, to the
Scramble Crossing, and then go
up to 10-4. Day one complete.

- Shiki Day 2 - [c1d2]

Attempt to head west, and you'll
find your path blocked by an
invisible wall. Head back to the
hooded figure and talk to him.
After doing so, scan the area
and erase the noise by him. Now
head left. Go to the upper exit,
and talk to the reaper. Scan and
erase the noise around the
statue. The path is now clear,
so head over to the next screen.
When there, examine the statue.
You're unable to purify it right
now, so backtrack to the
previous screen and scan near
where you erased the noise. Read
the guy's mind, and you'll know
what to do. Go back to Hachiko,
examine the statue, and choose
the option to polish it. Noise
will pop up, so erase them.
You'll now encounter a Mini-
boss.

Mini-boss: Noise 37, Metal
Corehog. HP: 600

You'll want to use ranged
attacks on this guy. If you get
too close to it, it will attack
you with his quills for a decent
bit of damage. It also fires
spikes into the air, and these
will explode a bit after they
land, so you'll want to move
away from them if they drop near
you.

- Shiki Day 3 - [c1d3]

A new day! Fun. Move to the next
screen. The first store shows up
now, so buy something if you
want to. When you're done, talk
to 777. Offer to help or don't,
it doesn't really matter as
you'll end up doing it anyway.
Now head down and talk to the
reaper. He'll summon noise and
you'll be taught about fusion
attacks. Fun. Defeat the noise
and move on to the next screen.

Head right until you reach the
Ramen Don, then enter. Buy some
food if you feel like it, and
then talk to the techie. He is
surrounded by orange noise, so
scan and defeat them. Head back
to where you met 777, and listen
in on his conversation with the
techie. Now talk to the reaper
at the top exit. He'll show you
a red noise symbol and tell you
to defeat two of that type, so
scan and do exactly that. It
won't count if you do it in
another area, so make sure it's
in A-East. Talk to the Reaper
again and head up through the
now open path.

You'll see Beat and Rhyme near
the entrance of this area, so go
and talk to them. After you've
finished with that, you'll see a
businessman walk by. Talk to
him, and when the symbol appears
over his heart, press it twice
to be given the opportunity to
imprint. You only have one meme
right now, so imprint "Blackout"
into his mind.

With that done, head back to the
stage and scan the guy in the
top right corner. Go back to the
techie in the Shibukyu Main
Store area, and imprint the word
"fuse" into his mind. Head back
down past A-East to Dogenzaka,
and enter the Cosmic Corner. Go
back to A-East and talk to 777
and the techie. Head in to the
stage, go to the back right
corner, and listen in on the
conversation between the techie
and his co-worker. It's time for
a boss fight.

Boss: Noise 88, Vespertilio
Canor. HP: 800

This boss is invulnerable
whenever the area is dark. In
order to light it up, Shiki must
defeat a number of the red bats
on the top screen. While you're
doing this, simply have Neku
concentrate on not taking
damage. Once enough of the bats
are dead, the area lightens up,
the boss loses it's
invulnerability, and the boss
becomes stunned for a brief
period of time. When this
happens, have Neku beat down on
it while Shiki goes on defense.
The boss may not die before its
invulnerability is restored, in
which case you simply need to
repeat the process until it does
die. It's not a particularly
difficult fight, and you should
have it down in no time.

- Shiki Day 4 - [c1d4]

Once you gain control of Neku,
talk to Beat and Rhyme. You'll
be challenged to a race, and
they'll run off. If you try to
leave the area before entering
10-4, Shiki will harass you, so
humour her and get it over with.
If you want to buy something, do
so, and once you're done head
down into the Scramble Crossing.

Talk to the reaper by the right
exit of the Scramble, and he'll
tell you to bring him two 1000
yen pins before he'll let you
pass. Lower your level in the
menu, scan for noise, and defeat
Noise 2 (Bigbanfrog - HP 400)
until you get them. Talk to him
again, and move on to the next
screen.

In here, you'll find another
reaper. This one wants you to
have five 500 yen pins before
letting you pass. With your
level still lowered, defeat
Noise 12 (Garage Wolf - HP 350)
and Noise 15 (Mosh Grizzly - HP
600) to obtain them. Once you
have them, talk to the reaper
and move right another screen.

Talk to Beat and Rhyme again,
then move on to Towa Records.
Before you take on the main
enemy, you'll have to fight a
regular batch of noise. Do so,
and then it's time for a mini-
boss.

Mini-boss: Noise 61, Swing
Shark. HP: 1200

You'll want to start this battle
off by taking care of the small
fry. The shark can wait until
the lesser threats are gone.
This mini-boss only has two real
ways to damage you. Its first
attack is just it swimming
around, and its fin will deal
some damage to you if it hits
you. The second attack is the
one to look out for. A puddle
will form underneath Neku, and
this signifies that it is about
to strike. When you see this,
simply move out of the way and
you'll be fine. If you fail to
do so, the shark will bite you
and you'll take a fair amount of
damage. This mini-boss is
another relatively painless
fight, and you'll make short
work of it.

- Shiki Day 5 - [c1d5]

Head left and talk to the
businessman nearby. He is trying
some sort of ritual to make
decisions for him, and you're
going to interfere with it for
kicks. If you move the coin too
quickly, it won't work and
you'll have to restart, so make
sure to do it slowly. Drag it to
the white symbol, and leave it
there.

Talk to the Reaper near the
entrance, scan, and kill two of
the noise represented by the red
noise symbol the reaper showed
you. Talk to him again, and head
up to Spain Hill. Scan and
defeat a few noise, and the
source of the problem will
reveal itself to you. Scan by
the two girls, and destroy the
orange noise surrounding them.

Imprint "Reaper Creeper" in the
first girl. She'll suggest they
try the ritual to solve their
problem. Playing the role of the
reaper, go to white all three
times. They'll make up, and then
you're up to scan and defeat the
remaining orange noise. Miniboss
time.

Mini-boss: Noise 16, Circle Pit
Grizzly. HP: 3500

This time up, the foe is a giant
bear. Unlike the last few boss
fights, the bear is never
invulnerable to attacks. When it
looks like it is about to grab
the ground, it will jump forward
and slam into it, dealing damage
with a decently sized area of
effect. He can also swipe
forward with his claws, though
this doesn't do as much damage.
These attacks are all close
ranged, and it's also pretty
slow, so just staying back and
pounding on it with ranged
spells should work just fine.

- Shiki Day 6 - [c1d6]

A bit to your right is a
distraught individual named
Makoto. Talk to him, then scan
him, and then scan again to
erase the noise surrounding him.
It's your job to help him with
his job, so talk to him and Nao.
When you get the chance, imprint
"Totally gnarly!" into his mind.
This is a success, so now follow
him to the northeast exit of the
Scramble. It's blocked by a
reaper, so talk to him and
engage in the first session of
the Reaper Review. The answers
are "Edoga the Shop", "High
Heels", and "Bubbles". Once
you've answered the questions
correctly, head on over to
Center St. Entrance.

Here you'll come across Makoto
again, this time trying to con
Shooter into taking a pin. Talk
to them, and imprint "Unreal,
bro!" into Makoto's mind when
the opportunity arises. Having
been successful once again, talk
to the reaper. He wants to see
that you have three rare metals.
Make sure your difficulty is on
normal, lower your level, and
kill Noise 58 (Decadraven - HP
490) to get them. Talk to the
reaper again, and continue on
your way.

Once you have reached Spain
Hill, talk to Makoto and the
Techie. Imprint "Come get some
hot stuff" in Makoto's mind,
then do it again when the
opportunity presents itself.
With the handing out of the pin
finished, backtrack to the
Scramble Crossing. Shiki is near
where Makoto originally was at
the start of the day, so talk to
her. Now she has moved over a
bit to the left, but talk to her
again. Now talk to Makoto.
Apparently just handing them out
isn't good enough, so equip the
Red Skull pin. It slows your
movement and doesn't help you in
any way, but it's necessary to
advance, so there isn't anything
that can be done about it.

Scan the area and defeat some
noise in order to make the pin
trendy in this area. Once you're
told that it has caught on, move
up to 10-4 and do the same thing
there. After it is popular there
as well, head back to the
Scramble and talk to Shiki one
last time for the day.

- Shiki Day 7 - [c1d7]

Once the day starts, head left
to Hachiko. Talk to the reaper
in here. He wants you to fight a
three battle chain, so scan and
do just that. Once you have done
so, save and move on to the next
area. Talk to the Reaper in
here, and you'll be forced into
a boss fight.

Boss: Noise 90, Cornix Canor.
HP: 800

The battle starts off tamely
enough. You'll fight a couple of
regular bird noise. No big deal,
just a standard fight. Once you
destroy them, a bigger bird
comes along, and those smaller
ones begin to spawn infinitely
at a slow pace. For this fight,
you'll mainly be battling the
small ones, but every once in a
while the big bird will take a
dive and fly across the screen.
It lets out a shriek before
doing this, so it's easy to tell
when the attack is coming. You
can just move up or down to
avoid its attack, so it's not at
all difficult to dodge. The
problem is that this is also
your only chance to deal damage.
Once you're out of the way, lay
down some ranged fire at it. You
won't do much to it, so you'll
have to let it take multiple
passes at you in order to win.
It has one other attack for you
to worry about dodging, but it
isn't vulnerable during this
one, so you don't have to risk
getting hit in order to deal
some extra damage. You'll see a
large circular shadow below
Neku, and this means the bird
has picked up a vehicle of some
sort and is dropping it on you.
You'll want to move out of the
way before it lands. This boss
doesn't really have difficult
attacks to dodge, but it's a
pain to hit, so it's really more
of a test of endurance than
anything else.

Keep on moving through the area
and into the Station Underpass,
and head right there. Time for
another boss fight.

Boss: Noise 91, Ovis Cantus.
HP: 8000

Yay, a major boss. This guy
doesn't have any real gimmick.
He's vulnerable to attack almost
all the time. The only time he
isn't is when he uses his attack
"Time for a taste test!" He
won't attack during this
invulnerability period, so not
only does it not pose a threat
to you in any way, but it also
provides you with an opportunity
to use recovery pins and let
your attack pins reload. He
won't be very aggressive at
first, so just beat him up for a
bit and you'll be fine. His
other attack during this phase
comes after he says "I'll char
your bones black! He'll fire a
bunch of electric orbs out at
you. They're slow, so just dodge
them. Eventually, he'll say "Now
we're boiling!" This indicates
that he has entered his second
phase, and now he'll attack with
some regularity, and his moveset
will expand a bit as well. Now
the attack with the electric
orbs will be followed up by
lightning strikes that follow
Neku, so keep moving in order to
avoid them. He'll also start
using "I'll pound you", where
he'll punch the ground once on
Neku's screen. Just move out of
the way to avoid it. He also
uses "I'll mince you!", which is
where he swipes at Neku and
knocks him across the screen.
Once he is down to his green
health bar, he'll go into his
final stage. He becomes even
more aggressive, and "I'll pound
you" will now sometimes have him
punch the ground repeatedly.
It's not all that difficult a
fight, but it's harder than
anything you've faced up to this
point.

- Joshua Day 1 - [c2d1]

A new week has started, and
you'll find yourself without a
partner once again. Start by
heading left to Hachiko, and
you'll meet Joshua. He isn't as
powerful as Shiki until near the
end of the week, but he's still
pretty decent, and his method of
earning fusion stars is more
straight-forward than Shiki's.
Anyway, you'll be forced into an
encounter, so beat up the noise.
When you're done, scan the area,
and read Joshua's mind.

This is basically a filler day,
so you're doing pretty much the
same thing you did on Shiki Day
1. Go back to the scramble and
talk to the reaper. Defeat the
noise he sends at you and head
on up to 10-4.

Mini-boss: Noise 51, Dub Rhino.
HP: 800

This guy is stupidly easy. It
won't take damage from you
unless you're behind it, but
that's literally all it has
going for it. Just hit him until
he drops. Day one over.

- Joshua Day 2 - [c2d2]

Open up the day by scanning
Joshua again. When the scene is
done, talk to the reaper if you
want to, but it isn't necessary
to move on. Now head right to
the Shibu Department Store. When
you're there, talk to the
reaper. He'll tell you to defeat
the noise surrounding people in
this area. Scan, and beat the
two groups of noise. Talk to the
reaper again and move on.

Head up to Molco. Here is your
first encounter with Taboo
Noise. They take very little
damage when the attacker doesn't
have the light puck, so keep
that in mind when using Neku's
attacks. After you beat them,
enter the Molco building. It
doesn't matter if you win or
lose, so just play the game as
well as you can. Once you're
done, head down to Cadoi City.

- Joshua Day 3 - [c2d3]

Head right to Cadoi City. Talk
to the reaper there. He'll tell
you to beat three noise with a
certain shaped symbol while
staying in the area, so scan and
defeat them. Talk to him again
and keep on moving. Talk to the
next one, and he will tell you
to find a Pop Pendulum pin.
Lower your level and kill Noise
56 (Carcinosamps - HP 520) on
normal to find one. Talk to the
reaper again, and keep going all
the way to cat Street. Enter
WildKat. When you're done there,
backtrack to Cadoi City. On the
way, you'll encounter a boss.

Boss: Noise 80, Reaper Beat.
HP: 5000

Beat moves around pretty quickly
and is a pain in general.
Thankfully, this is merely a
fight to survive. You probably
won't be able to deal enough
damage to kill him before the
battle automatically ends. Just
don't die, and you'll be fine.

Head to the scramble, and talk
to the top reaper. Equip as much
Natural Puppy stuff as possible,
and fight some noise until it
becomes the most popular brand
in the area. Talk to the reaper
again, and head to 10-4, and
then to Dogenzaka.

Head left until you reach a new
store called Shadow Ramen, and
enter it. After you are kicked
out, head back to the Ramen Don,
scan, and erase the noise around
Ken. Enter the store, and you'll
talk to him. Now go to Shadow
Ramen and you'll see that there
is trouble in paradise. Head
left and up to A-East, and talk
to Makoto and Prince. After
their conversation, scan and
erase the noise around Prince.
Head back to the Ramen Don and
talk to Ken. Imprint the meme
"Simple" in his mind. Now just
enter the Ramen Don to end the
day.

- Joshua Day 4 - [c2d4]

Head northeast to Center St.
Entrance. Talk to the Reaper
there. He asks for the Sexy +
pin. Noise 59 (Easterraven - HP
720) drops it on easy, so lower
your level and kill a few of
them. Talk to the reaper again
and move on. In the next area,
the reaper wants you to fight a
four chain reduction battle, so
scan and do so. Move on to Tipsy
Tose Hall.

Once you're there, talk to the
reapers. After the other two
leave, talk to 777. Now go to
Spain Hill and speak with Tenho
there. Now go to Molco and
examine the phone booth there.
Head down, then left back to the
Scramble Crossing. Talk to BJ
there. Head back to Tipsy Tose
Hall and talk to the reapers
again. First, pick 2:02, then
1:55, and "None of these guys"
for the final choice. Head on to
Shibu-Q, and you'll have have to
fight Beat again. It's the same
thing as last time, so when it's
over, move on to Udagawa. When
you get to the mural at the end
of the area, talk to Joshua,
then scan him to end the day.

- Joshua Day 5 - [c2d5]

Head right after gaining
control, and talk to the reaper.
Equip a bunch of D+B
pins/threads and fight some
noise to make it the most
popular brand in the area. Talk
to the reaper again, and keep
going. Talk to the next reaper.
If you don't have ramen, you'll
have to go back to the Scramble,
10-4, then Dogenzaka in order to
buy some. When you get it, head
back to the reaper, talk to him,
and move on. In the next area
there is yet another reaper.
This one is a Reaper Review. The
answers to the questions are
"Ken Doi", "Insta-Noodles", and
"580 yen". In Towa Records, this
reaper wants Neku to be equipped
fully with Mus Rattus threads.
If you don't have enough, there
is a Mus Rattus store back in
Cadoi City. The next reaper
wants to play Tin Pin Slammer
with you. It doesn't matter if
you win or lose, so humour him.
The (thankfully) last reaper
will tell you to defeat the
noise he sends at you, but the
catch is that he gets to pick
which pins you use. Just use the
top screen, and you'll be fine.

Now that you have finally
reached your destination, enter
WildKat. When your business
there is done, backtrack to the
Scramble. You'll encounter Beat
again, and he is the same as
always. Head to Hachiko, the bus
terminal, and then the
underpass. Head right for the
scene, then try to exit the
underpass. A taboo noise will
get the jump on you, so beat it
and you'll end the day.

- Joshua Day 6 - [c2d6]

Remember how when you first got
Joshua, he was pretty weak at
first, but became broken later
on? Yeah, you've just reached
that point. Pressing up will let
Joshua levitate, and his aerial
combos are stupidly good.
Excellent.

Anyway, head to Center St.
Entrance. You'll be attacked by
taboo noise, so beat it and move
on. You'll see a reaper being
attacked. Help him if you want
to. If you don't, you won't need
to fight the noise. Now move to
the next screen. More people are
being attacked by noise. You'll
end up fighting the noise either
way, so pick whichever you feel
like picking. Head to Shibu-Q,
and you're given yet another
choice. It's the same as with
the first reaper, so if you
choose not to help, you won't be
forced to. Move into Udagawa,
and you'll be attacked by
another noise. Defeat it and the
day ends.

- Joshua Day 7 - [c2d7]

Go up to 10-4, then take the
left exit to Dogenzaka. Head all
the way left, and enter Pork
City. Talk to the reapers.
You're only allowed one brand of
pin on each floor in here, so
check the chart and equip things
accordingly. You're also allowed
brandless pins, so you can heal
until your heart is content.
Beat the noise on this floor and
then move on. You'll face the
exact same thing on the second
floor, just with a different
brand. Once you've finished off
the noise, equip your good pins
again, because it's time for a
boss fight.

Boss: Noise 85, Sho Minamimoto.
Noise 92, Leo Cantus. HP: 3141

The battle starts with him using
an "Inverse Matrix" to summon
taboo noise to fight for him.
After you defeat enough of them,
he'll join the battle himself.
He switches screens when you
defeat all of the taboo noise,
and he'll summon more noise as
well. When he says "Zetta Slow"
as Leo Cantus, he'll take a
quick swipe at you. If he says
"Infinity!", he'll dash through
you, dealing some damage. He'll
interrupt your combos with
Joshua, so you'll want to use
Neku to beat him, which means
trying to minimize the time
spent with Minamimoto only on
the top screen. Overall, it's
not a particularly difficult
fight.

- Beat Day 1 - [c3d1]

As always, start day one off by
heading to Hachiko. You don't
have a partner, so run away from
the battle. You'll make a pact
with Beat, so defeat the noise
that show up. Go up and follow
the path to the end of the
Station Underpass. Now backtrack
to the scramble and talk to the
reaper. Defeat the noise, and go
to 10-4.

- Beat Day 2 - [c3d2]

Head up to 10-4, and then try to
go left, where the entrance to
Dogenzaka would normally be.
Beat will take down the wall.
Head to Dogenzaka, and you'll be
attacked by reapers. From now
on, reapers will sometimes
attack you when you move from
area to area. Anyway, defeat
them, then head to A-East. Talk
to 777, and defeat him. Enter
the concert stage, and move
forward a bit. Examine the
ground, and it's time for
another boss.

Boss: Noise 89, Pteropus Canor.
HP: 4000

This boss has a couple more
tricks than last time, but it's
ultimately just a stronger
version of the previous bat
boss. When it is light, just
make sure to be behind it when
attacking, so that you don't get
hit and stunned. Other than
that, it's the exact same thing
as last time.

- Beat Day 3 - [c3d3]

Talk to the businessman. Head to
Center St. Entrance, then to
AMX, and finally to Tipsy Tose
Hall. Talk to Makoto and the
businessman. Pick the option to
not act as the reaper. After the
scene, try to leave the area.

Boss: Noise 81, Uzuki Yashiro.
HP: 5500

She's not really anything
special. She teleports quickly,
so she's a bit hard to damage at
times. She'll fire a few
projectiles with her gun, but
they're easy to dodge. When she
says "Going somewhere?", she'll
fire a homing attack at you, so
you'll have to run around for a
while in order to lose it. When
she laughs with "Ahaha", she'll
fire a bunch of petals which
will spread out and rotate, then
meet together before firing out
again in a straight line. She
also has the ability to heal
herself. The attacks are all
pretty easy to dodge, so it's
not a difficult fight.

- Beat Day 4 - [c3d4]

Talk to Beat, then try to exit
left. Scan, and defeat the top
left and the bottom right noise,
then talk to Beat and press the
button. Now head right to
Miyashita Park. Examine the
ground. Now scan and erase the
four large noise in this area.
Press the button. In the
underpass, defeat the middle
noise, and in the park, defeat
the middle two. Press the
button. Head left through the
underpass, then talk to Beat.
Now go to Towa Records. Scan,
and now you'll face a boss.

Boss: Noise 83, Koki Kariya.
HP: 6000

Kariya has more HP than Uzuki,
but this is balanced by him not
teleporting all over the place
constantly. Instead he floats
around at a reasonably fast
pace. When he says "What a
pity", he'll summon an orb of
lightning that will float around
him, damaging you on contact. He
also has "See ya", which will
have him fire five blue shuriken
at you. "Hyah" is just a bunch
of straight firing bullets,
similar to Uzuki's gunshots. His
attack "Ready to clock out" is a
slow moving attack that has a
large blast radius once it hits
the ground. As with Uzuki, the
attacks are all easy to dodge,
so you'll have this fight
finished in no time.

Boss: Noise 81, Uzuki Yashiro.
Noise 83, Koki Kariya. HP: 5500,
6000

They're both the same as their
previous fights, except now they
have a dark puck that follows
them in the same way your light
puck does. Use the same
strategies as you did last time,
except be careful about avoiding
the enemy with the light puck.
Not a tough fight.

- Beat Day 5 - [c3d5]

Head to Center St. Entrance,
AMX, and then Tipsy Tose Hall.
Talk to the reaper, and defeat
him when he attacks you. Scan.
Go to Shibu-Q Heads, and try to
go left. You'll be attacked by
reapers. They'll keep spawning
for a while. Defeat them all,
then enter Udagawa. Examine the
ground at the top of the stairs.
When given the option, choose
"Four days ago". Talk to Kariya
and Uzuki.

Boss: Noise 82, Uzuki Yashiro
(Berserk). Noise 84, Koki Kariya
(Berserk). HP: 7000, 7000

They're pretty much the same as
before except more powerful. The
one key difference is that they
now have a fusion of their own.
There isn't any way to block it,
so just try to kill them before
they use it, or heal up after
it. Not too different from the
previous battle beside the lack
of audio signals, so you
shouldn't have any trouble with
them.

- Beat Day 6 - [c3d6]

Head to Shibu Deptartment Store,
then Cadoi, Towa Records, the
Underpass, Miyashita Park, Cat
Street, and finally enter
WildKat. Now backtrack to Cadoi,
and examine the heap when you're
there.

Boss: Noise 86, Sho Minamimoto
(Taboo). HP: 5926

This guy likes teleporting. A
lot. He's very difficult to hit
using the bottom screen, so
expect Beat to be doing most of
the work. Thankfully, like
Beat's fights, you don't
actually need to win this fight,
as after enough time it will end
automatically.

- Beat Day 7 - [c3d7]

Head left to Hachiko, the Bus
Terminal, and finally reach the
Underpass. Head right to enter
the Shibuya River. It's linear,
so just keep moving right. Talk
to Minamimoto.

Boss: Noise 93, Tigris Cantus.
HP: 4444

Her first stage is top screen
only. Have Beat wail on her, and
Neku will have to fight generic
enemies down below. They'll be
pulled toward the bottom left of
the screen, and if they make it
all the way, they'll be
destroyed and will heal her. Her
second stage is on both screens.
You need to hit her on the top
screen in order to make her
vulnerable on the bottom. For
her third stage, have Beat
attack, while having Neku stay
in her shadow as much as
possible. For her final form,
you'll see some yellow stuff
sparking on the bottom screen.
Touch it with the stylus to
summon the noise you just got to
attack her, and she'll take a
hit. Repeat this until she goes
down. Her attack variety pretty
much doesn't exist, so you
shouldn't ever be in danger of
dying.

Once you beat her, keep on
moving right. Examine the heap.
Head into the next area. Talk to
Megs.

Boss: Noise 87, Megumi Kitaniji.
HP: 10000

On the top screen, Shiki attacks
as she normally would, so just
block her attacks when she sends
Mr. Mew at you. Kitaniji's
attacks have more variety,
though they're still generally
easy to dodge with the exception
of one of them. His first attack
is "Stop it", where he'll attack
left or right with a long arm.
Another is "Time be still",
where he freezes time, sets up
attacks, and moves next to you
for a "Stop it" One of them has
a red line which indicates the
path a laser he is about to fire
will follow. His last couple of
attacks are balls that he can
create which will fire orbs in
every direction slowly, and
another where they will come at
you quickly. He doesn't have any
invulnerability gimmicks though,
so the fight won't last too long
if you just keep hitting him.

Once you've won, scan and touch
the door. Now just follow the
path the rest of the way.

Boss: Noise 94, Anguis Cantus.
HP: 10000

This boss is pretty much a joke.
Just stay away from the head and
you won't die. The body of the
dragon takes damage as well, so
you can completely ignore the
head and still win. A terribly
easy fight.

Boss: Noise 94, Anguis Cantus.
HP: 10000

The same thing as before, just
with Beat instead of Shiki.

Boss: Noise 95, Draco Cantus.
HP: 25000

Unlike the previous fight, this
one can actually kill you if you
don't know what you're doing.
First, stay away from the
middle. The middle head can bite
you, and it will do a lot of
damage, and you'll have a hell
of a time dodging the rest of
the attacks as well. Go for one
of the side heads, since you can
easily dodge everything from
them. Its attacks are "Ahhh!",
which has one of the heads fire
out a lot of bullets, "Let the
light save you", where a sword
is shot into the ground and
explodes with a large blast
radius, and some buzzing noise,
which indicates it will fire a
decently large beam across the
area. It can also fire a bubble
which will trap you and drag you
to the center. If you get caught
by it, try to destroy it, or the
middle head will bite you. Just
spam as many attacks as you can
on the boss, and after the first
fusion scene shows up, start
paying attention to your
partners on the top screen. If
one of them indicates a
direction, press that direction
with the d-pad or letter buttons
to have them power up your light
puck, increasing your damage for
the fight. After you have taken
away all of its HP, touch the
pin to end the fight.

--- Acknowledgements/Policy --- 

- Thanks to -

Ed Bellis: For inspiring me to
write this FAQ.

CJayC/SBAllen: For the fact that
this site exists in the first
place.

Square Enix/Jupiter Corporation:
For creating this excellent
game.

You, the reader: For choosing
this FAQ.

- Boring Policy Stuff -

All trademarks and copyrights
contained in this document are
owned by their respective
trademark and copyright holders.

This may be not be reproduced
under any circumstances except
for personal, private use. It
may not be placed on any web
site or otherwise distributed
publicly without advance written
permission. Use of this guide on
any other web site or as a part
of any public display is
strictly prohibited, and a
violation of copyright.

Copyright 2008 Eric Rene de
Cotret.